THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE -
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS - Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents -one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILERICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO.50. BOSTON. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1511.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SOUTH CAROLINA MOVEMENT.
SECESSION  EXCITEMENT- MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR.
COLUMBIA , S. C., Nov. 30, 1859.
Governor Gist has sent his message to the Legislature. In reference to the relations of the South to the North, he takes bold and decided ground against the agitators of the North, and in favor of a separation in the event of the election of a black republican President. He says:
Admonished by the action of the Legislature in relation to certain resolutions which were returned without comment to the State from whence they came, by one of my predecessors, I herewith transmit certain resolutions from the State of Vermont, affirming the right of Congress to exclude slavery from the Territories of the United States, and expressing the opinion that it is the duty of Congress to exercise this right, and that Vermont will continue to resist the admission of new Slave States into this Union, and will seek the abolition of slavery at the national Capital; also asserting that the decision of the Supreme Court, in the Dred Scott case, has no warrant in the Constitution, and is not binding upon Vermont, or the people of the United States. These resolutions not only embody the opinions of Vermont, but of all the non-slave-holding States; and the signs of the times clearly indicate an approaching crisis in the destinies of the South. The war so relentlessly urged against our institutions has assumed a form so menacing that none but those who are wilfully blind can fail to see the dangers that surround us, and the perils to which we are exposed. A small party at the North, numbering at first only a few fanatics, has assumed gigantic proportions; and, with very few exceptions, the entire Northern people are arrayed against us, and pledged to our destruction. Not satisfied with the slow but certain measures in progress to reduce us to worse than colonial vassalage, by refusing to admit Slave States into the Union-by the establishment of underground railroads to assist our negroes to escape from our service-by prohibiting us from carrying our slaves into the common territories and by every other conceivable means, they have actually crossed the Rubicon-attempted to instigate our slaves to insurrection, and furnished them with arms to murder us on Southern soil. Harper's Ferry is the truthful illustration of the first act set in the drama to be performed on a Southern theatre, and if the South does not now unite for her defence, we will the execration of posterity, and the blood that has been shed will bear a disgraceful and humiliating record against us. The intention of the North is as clearly evinced by the action of the few, and more especially when that action is ratified and approved by the press and people of the non-slaveholding States, as if they had sent forth their multitudes in the treasonable and incendiary attack upon the South. Can we, then, any longer talk about moderation and conservatism and statesmanship, and still hug the delusive phantom to our breast that all is well, and that the De-mobocratic party, upon whom we have too confidently relied, will work out our salvation by platforms and resolutions? As well might we rely upon a paste-board bark to protect us from ocean storms. South Carolina should be careful not to commit herself, directly or indirectly, to any Presidential aspirant, and be forced by party trammels to support a party nominee. An open and undisguised enemy is infinitely preferable to a pretended friend, and we should scorn the alternative of a choice of evils, as being but the poor privilege of a slave to choose a master. We have sunk very low indeed, if our liberties are to depend upon the fortunate selection of a candidate for the Presidency, who, on account of his popularity, or his mysterious manner of expressing his opinions, makes himself acceptable to both sections, or is what is generally termed available. It is un-becoming a free people to stake their liberties upon the successful jugglery of party politicians and interested office-seekers, rather than a bold and determined resolution to maintain them at every hazard. In the eloquent language of our own McDuffie, to whom were universally accorded honesty, patriot-ism, and: ’Let us disinterestedness:’ Let us cherish and preserve the reputation we have nobly acquired, as the Romans did their vestal fire. Let no statesman of South Carolina tarnish her glorious escutcheon by enlisting as a partisan under the banner of any of those political chiefs who are grasping at the Presidential sceptre. The political principles and peculiar institutions of the State may be sold and sacrificed, but most assuredly they can never be preserved by such degrading partisanship. South Carolina and all the States having similar institutions, must not put their trust in Presidents, but look to their own power and principles for the security of their rights and institutions. They are in a permanent minority on all questions affecting those rights and institutions, and, whoever may exercise the powers of the Chief Magistracy, they will be exercised in obedience to the will of the adverse majority.' What then, it may be asked, should South Carolina do in view of the crisis now approaching (and in my opinion fearfully near), to save her institutions from destruction, and afford safety and security to her people? Would to God I were able to give a satisfactory answer to this momentous question, and thus be the humble instrument to avert the impending danger; but I must confess my utter inability to point out the path of honor and safety, in the midst of the difficulties that surround us. With a united South, our course would be clear and our future glorious; we could enforce equality in the Union, or maintain our independence out of it. If, as I solemnly believe, we can no longer live in peace and harmony in the Union- notwithstanding the associations of the past, and the remembrance of our common triumphs (being treated as enemies and aliens, rather than brethren of the same family, and heirs of the same inheritance by the North), we can form a confederacy with ability to protect itself against any enemy, and command the respect and admiration of the world. This proud position is only to be obtained by a strict adherence to law and duty; and while South Carolina insists on the other States carrying out their constitutional obligations, she should be careful to do her whole duty, and carry out in good faith all her obligations to her sister States and the federal government, by discouraging all attempts to evade the laws, under any pretence whatever. While in the Union, we should comply with all the laws of Congress until they are pronounced unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, or our people are released from their binding obligations by the constituted authorities of the State; and it would be an arrogant assumption on the part of individuals to set up their opinions of the constitutionality of law as their rule of action. We should not imitate the example of the North in setting up a ’higher law,' but retain the proud position we have always occupied, and it will give self-satisfaction, an approving conscience, and it will give power to achieve victory. In preparing for any emergency that may arise, I would respectfully recommend you, at an early period, to take such measures as in your wisdom you may deem proper and expedient, to obtain the co-operation of the 
<c02>
Southern States in concerted action in defence of our institutions, whenever they may be put in jeopardy by all the departments of the government passing into the hands of our enemies. The election of a Black Republican President will settle the question of our safety in the Union, and although the forms of the Constitution may be complied with, its vital principle will be extinguished, and the South must consent to occupy an interior and degrading position, or seek new safeguards for her future security. Let South Carolina exhaust every means to get the cooperation of the Southern States in this vital and important movement, yielding everything but principle for that purpose, prepared to follow any lead in resistance; but she should never forget that she is a sovereign and an equal, that by her sovereign act she created the relationship of the State that now exists in the Federal Union, and that she has a clear and unquestionable right to assume her position as a sovereign in the family of nations. 

THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH. 
Another Crisis: Reciprocal Rights and Duties. 
The sympathizers with John Brown are fond of ridiculing the idea of danger to the national confederation. They laugh at the danger while they wish to precipitate the fact. They cry’ all's well,' that the means of salvation may be neglected till it is too late. 
We cannot shut our eyes to the fact that the raid of John Brown has produced in the South a feeling of hostility toward the North unknown before. We do not gather the evidence of this opinion from the intemperate language of the newspapers, or the speeches of excited politicians, who may have political capital to make out of the excitement. We find, the evidence in the private letters that come to us from sober, conservative, thoughtful men who assure us that the best men, even as far as North as Virginia, are ready to abandon the idea of longer union as impracticable. They are brought to this conclusion by the spirit and tons of the Northern radical press on the John Brown invasion. The South has had comparatively little sympathy, when a deep, wide-spread, powerful, organized conspiracy has been revealed against the peace and lives of the Southern people. We think that the South has judged the North too harshly in this in matter. They have taken the ravings of Cheever and Wheelock and the like as types of the Northern pulpit, and the Independent and Liberator as types of the Northern press. It would be just as fair to go into the Bed-lams to get the representative mind of the country. The North has not expressed as much sympathy with the South as it might and should have done. But we know scarcely of a Northern newspaper that has justified the invasion. And out of five hundred pulpits in this city, not five would justify it. The few ministers who have preached rebellion are no index to the sentiment, religion or sense of the Northern pulpit. When the ’poor miserable vessel,' [Dr. Cheever,] as he calls himself, on Union Square, asked last Thursday:- 
'If you or I have the power to toss a powder-horn or an explosive biscuit into the region, to start a revolt that would break up and destroy the whole system, would it not be wholly right to toss it?’
he asked a question that showed himself to be without the sympathy of a single honest man in this city. There cannot be a good man in the world who would approve of the conflagration which this incendiary would kindle, and exult in. We repeat, that these madmen of the press and the pulpit must not be counted as representative men: rather let them be regarded as fanatics, whose utterances are of no more account than the east wind. But the state of feeling is such at the South, that, unless milder counsels prevail, there will be an explosion at an early day. We apprehend that the approaching session of Congress will be one of intense excitement, and that it will be marked by scenes of violence and disorder. No man can say what a day may bring forth, and we would not be surprised to learn that the politicians of the South are already preparing to present a scheme for a Southern confederacy against the North. 
In such a state of affairs, it is vitally important that we understand one another. This great people must not be distracted by the madness of fanatics in or out the asylums. We are, as a people, more homogeneous and compacted in sentiment and affection than any other civilized country. It is not the great mass of the people that is divided. At heart the nation is sound. But we are ruled by demagogues and clamor. It is the curse of democracies that loud voices and strong arms rule. The danger is, that a storm of passion will sweep over the country, and prostrate our fabric of States, before reason and reflection can recover their throne. Our duty is plain. We must at the North with one heart and voice repudiate and condemn all design or desire to, offer violence to the institutions of the South. We must stand by the Constitution as it is, They at the South will repudiate all design or desire to attend the institution of slavery beyond the limits recognized by the Constitution. No legislation to secure additional protection for slavery may be expected in the Union as it is. And we are strongly inclined to believe that the John Brown excitement will tend to bring the North and the South together on this ground. The North will have its own opinions, and will express them freely, and if the South choose to read or bear them, they will hear or read a strong anti-slavery sentiment generally: but the North will stop just there: no more John Browns will rise in our day: no more conspirators will gather at Harper's Ferry: the cowards who urge bolder men to violence will think of the hanging of Brown and his aids, and tremble; traitors will turn into rampant patriots, and none will be louder in denouncing the folly of Brown than the men who helped him to his ruin: abolitionism will die with the villains who hatched this conspiracy. 
The South will cease to denounce the North as an enemy. It must treat the leaders of disunion as we would treat the sympathizers with John Brown: it must set itself resolutely against the schemes already began to make this excitement the entering wedge of division: it must believe that the heart of the whole country is sound, and we are all brethren, willing to bear one another's burdens. With such reciprocal feelings, the present excitement may prove to be a great blessing. It may drive the North and South into a better understanding, and closer bonds of interest and affection. Certain we are that it is not a time now for violent men to be heard. We want moderation, judgment, religion, love. We want the spirit of the gospel to abound and prevail (!) North and South, and by its power all the occasions of anxiety and alarm will be done away.-N. Y. Observer.
MEETING THE ISSUE. In a fiery speech recently delivered by Senator Brown, of Mississippi, before the Legislature of that States, he said:- 
'I have said of Mr. Seward and his followers, that they are our enemies, and WE ARE THEIRS, He has declared that there is an ”irrepressible conflict" between us. So there is! He and his followers have declared war upon us, and I am for fighting it out to the bitter end It is clear that one or the other must go to the wall, AND THE <illegible> THE BETTER.'.
<c03>
THE RUFFIANISM OF CALEB CUSHING.
Extracts from a murderous harangue delivered by that most unscrupulous of all Northern demagogues in the service of a fiendish Southern slave oligarchy, CALEB CUSHING, at the’ Union-saving' (alias God-dethroning, man-imbruting, hell-rejoicing) meeting held in Faneuil Hall, Boston, Dec. 8th, 1859:-
But it is said that John Brown was insane, and therefore that he should not have been convicted. Was he insane? Gentlemen, I have many times had occasion in this Commonwealth,-all reflecting men have had occasion,-to meet a similar question. I cannot meet that question without speaking plainly. Shall I speak plainly? [General cries ’of' Yes,' ‘Yes.'] I say, in this Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and in its adjoining State of New York, there is a handful of men of highly intellectual mind, of the highest culture, literary and scientific, men who would seem to he born to bless their day and generation-Wendell Phillips, Lloyd Garrison, Waldo Emerson, Theodore Parker, and Gerrit Smith -who, by constant brooding upon one single idea, that idea, if you please, a right one, have become monomaniacs of that idea, [applause,] and have become utterly lost to the moral relations of right and wrong. In their private relations, not one of them would injure the hair even of my head. [Laughter.] Not one of them, unless upon the, question of slavery; and then such is the atrocious ferocity of mind into which they have been betrayed by this monomania, that they declare in so many words, and therefore I may say it is so, their readiness to break down all laws, human and divine,-nay, that under the influence of this monomania' they have set up in this Commonwealth a religion of hate- aye, a religion of hate, such as belongs only to the condemned devils in hell. (Applause.) I say it is a religion of hate, and of blasphemy. Oh God! that such things are in this our day! 
They have set up this religion of hate, and they blasphemously call that Christianity. I put this question to you-whether those demoniac passions and this ferocity upon the subject of slavery institutions have not sacrificed all there is in the human heart, and all there is divine in the aspirations of human hearts to God and to Heaven? This they have done, and the question is asked, are they sane? I cannot pronounce on that question. What would a commission of lunacy say up on the question, I know not. I know that the imputed insanity of John Brown is that his intelligence has become perverted, that his heart is gangrened, that his soul is steeled against everything human and consciousness by that same monomania which pervades the speeches and writings of Wendell Phillips and Waldo Emerson. Are they insane? I say again, I know not; and yet I pause to ask, have we not now before us the spectacle, most painful to every well settled heart, have we not the spectacle of one of their number, us wise in his day and generation as they, with the same pretences of good and of right, and the same perversion of Christianity and the Bible- have we not before us the spectacle of Gerrit Smith in a hospital for lunatics in the State of New York? I know not, but I do say that unless all monomaniac Abolitionists are to be deemed insane, and incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, in a question of murder, and of treason, and of burglary, and of robbery, then John Brown was not insane, and therefore was not entitled to any consideration upon that pretext. And we know well that he would have been the last to assume any such pretext; we know well that he acted with that stolid indifference to the atrocity of his acts, which in all time has distinguished political and religious assassins-which may be found in the plot of Guy Fawkes, which animated Ravaillac when he stuck his poinard into the heart of a good and great man. The same spirit animated the assassins of Italy, who, to prevent the progress of moderate reform, and to substitute their own monomania, slaughtered Rossi at the steps of the Vatican. In Vienna, the good Count Lemborg, and in Prague, the Princess Windischgratz, were assassinated in the same spirit of insane attempts at political reform. That is the distinctive quality of these offences. The idea of John Brown is that by cold-blooded, fraudulent, midnight assassination, he is to promote the reform of the institutions of the State of Virginia and of the Southern States. So, gentlemen, I now say, that not only was John Brown duly and legally tried and convicted, but that he was duly and lawfully executed, and rendered up his justly forfeited life to the justice of the State of Virginia. (Applause.) 
Shall we in Massachusetts continue to nourish the sentiments of mutual rancor and hostility upon an abstract question wholly beyond our reach and authority? If we do so, gentlemen, we know well the consequences. We know that not only must this federal compact break by its own weight, we know not only that the time has come when we shall all have to say farewell to the glories of the Union, farewell to the vaunted glories of the American; Union; but when there will be the more terrible and dismal spectacle of civil war upon our own soil in Massachusetts. For, gentlemen, when we look forward to the consequences of a disruption of this Union, is the North then to invade the South for the purpose of carrying on an armed prosecution of these projects of interference with the institutions of the South? Will the North undertake that? Gentlemen, if the North does undertake that, it will sacrifice everything of peace and honor for a delusion land a shade. Will the North do it? Gentlemen, are there not gallant and patriotic men enough in the State of Massachusetts, who, if any such traitorous purpose should be attempted against the, South, a war of invasion for the destruction of the Union and the government of the Union-are there not men enough here to seize the traitors by the throat, (loud cries of ’yes, yes,' and great applause,) and say,’ You must walk over oar bodies, you shall not engage in this fratricidal, suicidal, civil war with your fellow-citizens of other States'! I say, that whenever this state of things approaches, that war will not be upon Mason & Dixon's line, but it will be here upon the soil of New England, and upon those who hate the Constitution of the country, between those who declare that the Constitution is a covenant with the devil and a league with bell-I say, there will be war between them, and those who are devotedly attached to the Constitution, and determined at all hazards to maintain the Union.-(Applause.)
Gentlemen, a band of drunken mutineers has seized bold of the political opinion of this Commonwealth- avowed and proclaimed enemies of the Constitution of the United States; nay, equally clamorous enemies of the Constitution of the State of Massachusetts; for these same persons denounce, vituperate, and calumniate, with impartiality of wrath, both the parties which now divide the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I say, a band of drunken mutineers has seized hold of the control of the public opinion of the State. Where is the <illegible>? Who is the? (A voice, ’BURNHAN.' This response excited shouts of laughter. So apt seemed the answer, that every men in the hall, ludicrous as it was, was for a moment thrown from his gravity.) Where, I ask, is the helmsman? Has he sold himself to the mutineers? No, gentlemen; but the mutineers stand with a pistol at his head, com-
<c04>
manding him to obey or die! And so the good ship of State drifts on,-drifts, drifts, with the storm howling around, drifts on towards the gulf of perdition, with the black of the pirate flying at the mizzen; aye, and the piratical death's-head at the fore; black, black all over-from track to keelson. I say, the good ship of State drifts on to perdition. (Loud and prolonged applause.) And where are you, the citizens of Massachusetts, who should be her officers and crew? That good ship is freighted with all your earthly hopes-you and your wives and your dear children are there as passengers, and you all sit in torpid apathy, or shameful indecision, or stolid despair. You all sit and see the drunken mutineers, as they are about to blow up the ship and all it contains, and you do not move a hand to rescue her from ruin, and to carry her back to the path of peace and security. I appeal to you, citizens of Massachusetts, I implore you, to awake from this lethargy! Rise, I say, in the majesty of your might, people of Massachusetts-rise in the majesty of your might, and redeem the honor and the fame of the good old Commonwealth! (Enthusiastic cheering.) 

THE UNION DISSOLVED! 
If the House elects a Republican Speaker this week, the Union is no more? Hear Mr. Buchanan's Washington organ., The Constitution.-
'In such a crisis as this, would not the election of a Black Republican Speaker and other officers be justly regarded as a declaration of war against the South, and an invitation to servile insurrection? We appeal to every Southern member of Congress to answer the startling question, whether the success of such men at such a period would not be truly considered as inviting the slaves themselves to insurrection and rebellion? We ask further, whether if, in consequence of such action, insurrection or rebellion should appear in any portion of the South, would not all who had co-operated through such an organization with such associates be held properly responsible for all the consequences?
‘We firmly believe that in the impending crisis, a Black Republican victory in the organization of the House would shake the pillars of the Union. Already the Government is rocking almost on its foundations under the effect of the insurrectionary movements against the South, and if in the heart of two Southern States, and at the very capital of the Union, these traitors could now accomplish such a triumph, we may but little longer boast of the possession of a common country. That the Constitution should be subverted by those who had just sworn to support that sacred instrument-that all its guaranties should be thus disregarded and violated-that the flag of treason should float in triumph in the Capitol itself, would cause the stoutest hearts to tremble for the fate of the Union. While we still possess a common country, while the Union still lives, we implore all who would perpetuate its blessings and benefits to refrain from such an act in this period of gloom and peril. If evil must befall us- if the Constitution be wrong, the sacred name of Washington must be overthrown-if the Union, cemented by the blood of our forefathers, must be dismembered-if blood must flow in the fratricidal strife, let not the disaster be precipitated in the capital bearing the name of the Father of our Country.'

A WOMAN’ LETTER TO JOHN BROWN. 
The following is a copy of a genuine letter received at our post-office. The letter is authentic beyond question, as the main facts can be corroborated by a number of persons now here. It will be read to John Brown this morning:- 
To John Brown, Commander of the army at Harper's Ferry, Charlestown, Jefferson Co., Va. Care of Jailor, Charlestown. 
CHATTANOGA, (Tennessee,) Nov. 20, 1859.
JOHN BROWN: Sir-Although vengeance is not mine, I confess that I do feel gratified to hear that you were stopped in your fiendish career at Harper's Ferry with the loss of your two sons. You can now appreciate my distress in Kansas, when you then and there entered my house at midnight and arrested my husband and two boys, and took them out of the yard, and in cold blood shot them dead in my bearing. You can't say you done it to free our slaves; we had none, and never expected to have; but it has only made me a poor disconsolate widow with helpless children. While I feel for your folly, I hope and trust you will meet your just reward. Oh, how it pained my heart to hear the dying groans of my husband and children-! If this scrawl gives you any consolation, you are welcome to it. 
MATILDA DOYLE. 
N. B.-My son, John Doyle, whose life I bagged of you, is now grown up, and is very desirous to be at Charlestown on the day of your execution; would certainly be there if his means would permit it, that he might adjust the rope around your neck, if Gov. Wise would permit. M. D. 
A party of gentlemen immediately subscribed the amount, but the letter being detained, it was ascertained young Doyle could not arrive in season.- Charlestown Correspondence Baltimore Sun. 

SELECTIONS. 
A DEFENCE OF THE MEMORY OF JOHN BROWN.
December 3, 1859. 
Editors of the Boston Traveller; 
In your issue of yesterday, you have an article under the caption of’ Documents relating to John Brown,' by which a wrong impression is given to the public. Will you allow me to present a few points which you, in common with the press generally, have overlooked in reference to the parte statements now being raked out of the ashes of the past? 
As for nearly four years have been your correspondent in Kansas, I may ask the privilege now desired, and trust that the confidence I hope to have merited in endeavoring faithfully to give the facts of Kansas history, will now stand me in need in the remarks I shall make. 
The affidavits alluded to by you have been published in the Herald of Freedom. The same have also been re-published in the Post of this city. They can be found in the report of the Congressional Kansas Investigating Committee. They were not, however, taken before the full session of that body, but were concocted at Westport, Missouri, by Gen Whitfield. and Mr. Oliver, the pro-slavery member of the Commission, who abundantly proved during that investigation his desire to make out a good case against the Free State men.
Again-the statement made in those affidavits are entirely different from those first made by the women when they arrived at Westport, after the killing at Pottawatomie Creek. This can and will he proven. But the affidavits are not such as would be received as evidence in any court of law. A fifth rate practitioner could tear them all to pieces as far as they go to show that John Brown had any thing.
<c05> 
to do with the homicides. But one of the parties testifies to having seen John Brown in the neighborhood on the night of the deed. That man says the captain called at one of the houses on the creek a short time before these men were killed, and from that it is inferred that John Brown did the deed.
One of the actors in that affair, now dead, gave me in the summer of 1856, a description of it, the causes of the deed, and the manner in which it was done; and from that statement, which has been verified by all the inquiries that have been made since, there is no hesitation on my part in declaring that Capt. John Brown was not at the scene, nor a participator in the righteous act by which five ruffians were sent to their account. 
It is inferred in your article that Doyle was a peaceable citizen, though a pro-slavery man. Let me say that in Kansas no one presumes to make such a statement. He not only was a pro-slavery man, but a ruffian of the most malignant stamp. All of those killed were members of an active gang of ruffians, who made their head-quarters in that vicinity.
Doyle was engaged with others in a fiendish attempt to outrage the persons of Capt. Brown's daughter, (the wife of Thompson, who, while a prisoner in the hands of the chivalry of Virginia, was so brutally butchered,) and of his daughter-in-law, the wife of one of Brown's sons,.
Wilkinson was a member of that body of usurpers, which, under the name of a Legislature, passed a code of laws that have since become a byword and a hiss among the nations, for barbarity and tyranny. He came to Kansas a professed Free State man, tried to get the nomination from that party, and, failing that, took position with the Border Ruffians. At Shawnee Mission, he, with another of the same stamp, one Chapman, was universally despised by the Missourians, who made use of them as fit tools for our enslavement. Every member of that usurping body deserved death at the hands of an outraged people. Wilkinson was a leading member of the same gang with Doyle and Sherman. 
Another point is inferred in your article, and that is that the Pottawatomie homicides were the first acts of the kind, and that therefore the doers of the deed were the aggressors. Turn back to history. Wilkinson, Doyle and the others were killed on the night of the 24th of May, 1856. Three days before, the city of Lawrence had been sacked by Buford's Ruffians. Five months before, 2000 Missourians lay around that place, thirsting for the blood of the people. For months the territory had been in a state of civil war. Dow of Hickory Point, Collins of Doniphan, R. P. Brown of Easton, Jones of the Wakarusa, Robert Barber and Stewart of Lawrence, had all of them been assassinated by the men with whom Doyle and Wilkinson acted. 
These men had, in conjunction with others, stolen John Brown's cattle and those of his sons and neighbors, and otherwise injured the anti-slavery people of that settlement. At the time, these men were engaged in- a conspiracy to drive out the Browns, Partridges and others on the creek, and their own sudden death alone prevented its being carried out. The stories of mutilating the bodies are false, an invention probably of the Editor of the Herald of Freedom, who endeavors to outdo Virginia in at tempts to blacken the character of the Cromwellian soul which yesterday returned unto its God.
You state that, after this affair at Pottawatomie, John Brown lost the confidence of the Free State leaders in Kansas. Let me state a few facts, which will possibly put a different face on the matter.
Charles Robinson, the present Republican candidate for Governor of Kansas, wrote a letter some time after this affair, to John Brown, which fully endorsed his course, and praised him highly, as being beneficial to the cause. In that same summer, he, with other prominent Free State men, consulted with John Brown, endorsing plans for defensive operations submitted by him, and furthermore signed orders on the Central Committee of Safety for money and equipments, with which to make John Brown's company more effective.
I myself was a witness to scenes which show directly that John Brown had the confidence of the Free State leaders in Kansas. 
On the first Sunday in September, 1856, a council of war was held in Lawrence, which was attended by Gen. James H. Lane, Adjutant-General Marcus J. Parrott, Gen. Charles H. Branscomb, Cols. Harvey, Cracklin, Samuel Walker, Joel K. Grover, and a large number of the principal officers and citizens of the Free State volunteers and party.
Capt. John Brown appeared on the street, for the first time after his heroic defence of Osawatomie, a few days before. His arrival created a sensation, and the Council immediately sent a message to him to attend. They were very urgent, but the old Spartan did not like talk. His reply was-‘If the General had any work to do, he would do it, but he would not come to the Council.'
He was in the room a short time, but left with the remark, ’All talk and no cider-great cry and little wool.'
The first time I saw Capt. Brown was in the emigrant camp at Plymouth, on the Northern border. I know that be was consulted by Col. Dickie, and the officers of the train.
During that campaign, General Lane several times urged the captain to act with him as second in command. This was done with the concurrence of the Free State men generally.
On the 13th of September, 1856, when 2700 Ruffians appeared in front of Lawrence, Capt. Brown again made his appearance. At that time, and I state what I know, he was solicited by all the prominent citizens to take charge of the defence. Among these were G. W. Brown, the editor who now attempts to slander John Brown.
These are facts which politicians cannot blink. I am not a politician, and therefore dare to honor and vindicate John Brown, a man whom I love and reverence beyond all others who labored for the cause of Freedom in Kansas.
In closing, let me say that John Brown told me be was not a participator in the Pottawatomie homicides. John Brown was incapable of uttering a falsehood. I would take his word against the oaths of a million of Doyles. R. J. HINTON. 

BROWN'S LETTER. TO HIS WIFE.
CHARLESTOWN, JEFFERSON Co., Va.,}
16th Nov. 1859.} 
My Dear Wife: I write you in answer to a most kind letter of Nov. 13, from dear Mrs. Spring. I owe her ten thousand thanks, for her kindness to you particularly, and more especially than for what she has done, and is doing in a more direct way for me personally. Although I feel grateful for every expression of kindness or sympathy towards me, yet nothing can so effectually minister to my comfort as acts of kindness done to relieve the wants, or mitigate the sufferings of my poor distressed family-.May God Almighty and their own consciousness be their eternal rewardness. I am exceedingly rejoiced to have you make the acquaintance, and be surrounded by such choice friends, us I have long known some of those to be, with have whom you are staying, by reputation. I am most glad to have you meet with one of a family (or I would rather say of two families,) most beloved and never to be forgotten by me.
<c06>
I mean dear gentle-Many and many a time has she, her father, mother, brothers, sisters, uncle and aunt (like angels of mercy) ministered to the wants of myself and of my poor sons, both in sickness and in health. Only last year I lay sick for quite a number of weeks with them, and was cared for by all, as though I had been a most affectionate brother or father. Tell her that I ask God to bless and reward them all forever. ’I was a stranger, and they took me in.’ It may possibly be that -would like to copy this letter, and send it to her home. If so, by all means, let her do so. I would write them if I had the power.
Now let me say a word about the efforts to educate our daughters. I am no longer able to provide a means to help toward that object, and it, therefore. becomes me not to dictate in the matter. I shall gratefully submit the direction of the whole thing to those whose generosity may lead them to undertake in their behalf, while I give anew a little expression of my own choice respecting it. You, my wife, perfectly well know that I have always expressed a decided preference for a very plain but perfectly, practical education for both sons and daughters. I do not mean an education so very miserable as that you and I received in early life; nor as some of our children enjoyed. When I say plain but practical, I mean enough of the learning of the schools to enable them to transact the common business of life comfortably and respectably, together with that thorough training to good business habits which best prepares both men and women to be useful, though poor, and to meet the starry realities of life I with a good grace. You well know that I always claimed that the music of the broom, washtub, needle, spindle, loom, axe, scythe, hoe, flail, &c., should first be learned at all events, and that of the piano, &c., afterwards. I put them in that order as most conducive to health of body and mind; and for the obvious reason, that after a life of some experience and of much observation, I have found ten women as well as ten men who have made their mark in life right, whose early training was of that plain, practical kind, to one who had a more popular and fashionable early training. But enough of that. 
Now, in regard to you’re here coming hero: If you feel sure that you can endure the trials and the shock, which will be unavoidable (if you come), I should be glad to see you once more; but when I think of your being insulted on the road, and perhaps while here, and of only seeing your wretchedness made complete, I shrink from it. Your composure and fortitude of mind may be quite equal to it all, but I am in dreadful doubt of it. If you come, defer your journey till about the 27th or 28th of this month. The scenes which you will have to pass through on coming here, will be anything but those you now pass, with tender, kind-hearted friends and kind faces to meet you every where. Do consider the matter well before you make the plunge. I think I had better say no more on this most painful subject. My health improves a little; my mind is very tranquil, I may say, joyous, and I continue to receive every kind attention that I have any possible need of. I wish to send copies of all my letters to all our poor children. What I write to one must answer for all, till I have more strength. I get numerous kind letters from friends in almost all directions, to encourage me to’ be of good cheer,' and I still have, as I trust, ’the peace of God to rule in my heart.' May God, for Christ's sake, ever make his face to shine on you all!
Your affectionate husband,
JOHN BROWN. 

A HOPEFUL SIGN. 
It has long been felt by the friends of Evangelical religion in other parts of the country, that the indifferent and even hostile attitude of some of the Orthodox churches and ministers in Boston toward the Anti-Slavery reform, was a serious hindrance to the growth of Evangelical sentiment in that community. Those humane and generous sentiments of our nature to which the Anti-Slavery movement so powerfully appeals, have been suppressed through a vague fear of ultraism, or have been left to the skillful handling of such sincere and earnest philanthropists as Messrs. Garrison, Phillips, and Parker. The prevalence of infidelity among the young men of Boston is largely owing to the Anti-Abolition fever which has infected some of the Orthodox churches, in Boston. There was danger that churches which. ought to be the leading representatives of the faith and spirit of the Pilgrims, would die of a conservative propriety. Happily, this danger begins to be perceived by some of those churches themselves; and they are waking up to a lively interest in the social and moral reformation of the community around them, and a positive sympathy with Christian aggression upon the institution of slavery. Not even the incubus of a New England Branch of the Nassau street Tract Society will be able to weight down this rising energy of the religious life.
One incident of the past week will be worth more to the Orthodox Congregational churches of Boston, than all the pride of their history in years of rigid Conservatism. We refer to the appearance of the young and eloquent pastor of the Old South Church, Rev. J. M. Manning, at a public meeting in aid of the family of John Brown. His remarks, reported in another column, show that a new life is beginning to penetrate the Boston churches.-N.Y. Independent.

S0UTHERN SENTIMENTS IN REGARD TO JOHN BROWN.
The Clerk (Va.) Journal, in an article which has been severely denounced by the Richmond Enquirer, says:-
'As Christian people, we are bound to respect the motives of the sincere and conscientious, however mistaken. We do not care to weaken our position by shedding the blood of such, and giving them no time for repentance, if we can free ourselves from their annoyance by their confinement, as we would confine a mad dog.
'But blood for blood has been shed-more blood on their side than ours. It is now only a question of policy as to the further proceeding. Will it do more good to go on shedding blood, while we can find any to shed, or to stop now, and confine the rest for life? Our judgment is, and we are bound to give it, (if every subscriber stops his paper, as we have been threatened to some extent,) in favor of the latter. More good can be done, as a pure question of policy, by staying the diffusion of blood. Now, if this be treason, make the most of it. We will be as ready to die for a conviction as John Brown. As a pure question of policy, we have most to gain by a moderate, placable, conservative course. We regret as deeply as any man can, the death, and injury of our highly esteemed citizens. We appreciate their worth, as highly, as any one. Beekham and Turner left no superiors, as valuable citizens, behind them. But now the deed is done, and blood has been shed in return, and a few are fugitives and outcasts, on the earth, and the rest are in chains and dungeons. How much more can a generous, magnanimous people ask? How will it appear in the eyes of the world, the unfavoring world to slavery, to ask more-even to the last drop of their blood?’
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution in a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell’
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution…There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous, impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an <illegible> yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW OF THE FANEUIL HALL MEETING.
MARYLAND REPUDIATES NORTHERN DOUGH-FACES.
The following article from a late number of the Baltimore (Md.) Patriot, will be read with great interest at the present time. The Patriot is one of the oldest and most conservative, as well as influential journals in Maryland. If we mistake not, it has been for many years under the control of a direct descendent of President Munroe. The sentiments herein uttered are no doubt those of a great majority of the intellectual men of the Southern States. The Patriot knows the sentiments of the South; all its interests, pecuniary and political; all its social relations, are Southern. No paper is better able to comprehend the position of the great political parties of this country, at present divided; its sentiments therefore will, as they ought, strike home with peculiar emphasis. We commend them particularly to those who attended the Union-meeting at Faneuil Hall on Friday. -Atlas.
'We perceive that the <illegible> Dough-Faces in Boston, New York and Philadelphia propose holding meetings for the purpose of appeasing the wrath of Locofoco disunionists in the South, at the recent exhibitions of foolish sentimentalism for John Brown, by a handful, here and there, of Abolition Disunionists in those cities.
If there be any character in the world that we have any contempt for, it is the dirt-eating dough face of the free States. He has no real regard whatever for the South and its institutions, and yet, under the pretence of sympathy for them, he will proclaim himself our friend, keeping his eyes steadily all the while upon the pecuniary benefit to be derived therefrom. He will do anything that Southern fire-eaters will require of him, even to licking the very dust off their shoes; and though these partisans are perfectly aware of his hypocrisy, yet, strange to say, they affect to be gratified at the exhibition. Why is this? Because they hope thus to get his vote. This is the sum and substance of the whole operation, and what is more, its real object. The Locofocos of the South demand the sacrifice, and the Locofocos of the North are ready to make it.
We all know that not a single resolution will be adopted at these forthcoming meetings, not one word spoken by any of their dough-face orators, that will express their real sentiments, and so far as the American party of Maryland are concerned, they wand none of this make-believe sympathy. Indeed, they want no sympathy at all from anybody. They are a power in the State, not a ï¿½Balance of Power' party, and though they were cheated at the election out of the majority in the counties, they mean to get it back next fall, without so much as saying to the Locofocos, ï¿½By your leave. 'They are not to be deceived about the real sentiments of the people of the Free States about slavery, and they don't want any Northern or Western man to eat dirt to please them. They don't ask any such degradation. What they want is the vote of the Northern and Western Opposition, by whatever name they may call themselves, for a conservative Presidential ticket next fall. As to slavery in Maryland, they can take care of that institution, contrary to those entertained by people in the Free States, they don't require of those people, as a prelude to a political union in the next Presidential election, the surrender of their manhood, or the profession of a lie on their lips about slavery. That's Locofoco tactics.
Away, then, with the proposed dough-face meetings, in the three Eastern cities! The Americans of Maryland want no such exhibitions of degradation to sustain them in maintaining the institution of Slavery in this State. They ask no odds of any free state on this subject. They sustain slave labor, because it is their will so to do, and for no other reason. They seek no excuse for this exercise of their independent will. So long as the American party have a voice in public affairs in Maryland, and can control her public action, no power can force her to leave the Union of these States, because the Northern and Western people choose to dislike slavery. They may talk against it till doomsday, and Maryland will not care; but whenever any John Brown shall attempt an inroad into her borders, she is amply able to take care not only of herself and her slaves, but also of her invaders, and that, too, not a la Wise. Nor do the Americans of Maryland care what the locofoco disunionists of the South, or any of their fraternizers, say or think about them. She is in a position that enables her to say to North and South: hands off, stand back!-and what is more, she has the means and ability to enforce her will, without surrendering her reserved rights to the Federal Union. As Decatur said in relation to Baltimore city, ï¿½She gives graves to her invaders, and monuments to her defenders!'
So far as the American party of Maryland are concerned, then, the Northern Dough-Faces who are going to play the Pharisee and the fool to the South, may as well save their breath and their hypocrisy. We all know the value of their professions. They cannot make Maryland a Locofoco State next fall, do what they may, and we want no Dough-Face votes, when the contest comes, for the candidates whom we shall support. We want the votes of American freeman, whether North, South, East or West, whose opposition to Locofocoism is as firm and unrelenting as ours is. We want nothing to do with Dough-Face sentiment. The American party of Maryland know what they themselves think about slavery, and they are willing that the people of other States shall have their opinions about it too. They do not hold that a difference of opinion about it too. They do not hold that a difference of opinion, on this or any other subject, is sufficient to keep the opponents of Locofocoism apart in the great struggle of next fall. Indeed, they believe the expulsion of the Locofoco party from power will be sure to result in excluding the question of slavery from politics entirely.
The incense, therefore, to be burned this week on Locofoco altars in Boston, New York and Philadelphia, will not be a sweet smelling odor in the nostrils of Maryland Americans. They prefer the open hostility of enemies to the hypocrisy of such friends; but Maryland knows no enemies, North, South, East or West, except the Disunionist, and Abolition Locofocos, and them she is ready to war against to the death, whether here at home in our own cities or State, or in other States.'
Our good friend of the Richmond Whig cordially approves the idea of the formation of voluntary associations throughout Virginia and the South, bound together by a common pledge among themselves neither to eat, drink, wear, buy or use any article whatsoever manufactured at or imported from the North.' All this may be very well, to touch the pocket of the North, but how are we to protect the Southern heart against the fascinating belles of Boston, New York, and Philadelphia:-
The girls who give the South,
What gold can never buy.
There is no need of forming any other ï¿½voluntary associations' than those imposed by the marriage service. True, our fathers in the revolution made and carried out a similar pledge in regard to importations from them other country, but they never made the importation of the mothers of the country contraband. We propose a war of retaliation. If the North will interfere with our Southern domestic institutions, let our young men go forth and rob the Northern homes of their most cherished ornaments, and bring them back to found more patriarchal relations among us. Let us conquer prejudices by the potent aid of love, and bring willing captives to our arms. The idea of not eating New England salmon next spring, or of refusing an ice crop from Chicago when the dog-star rages; the bare thought of having Indiana grouse, or a Maine supply of potatoes, interdicted to us; of being compelled to read of New York oysters or Pittsburg ale, and be in the tantalizing condition of not enjoying them; the terrible calamity involved in giving up the Newark cider sold for champagne, or the rectified whiskey of Cincinnati drugged for old brandy; the shivering sensation produced by the very thought of refusing to be supplied with Pennsylvania coal this winter by Kellogg & Co., because it is mined by an underground railroad; the setting our obdurate appetites against the produce the Hoosier pigeon roosts, a teal or blue wing, because they fly from the North; all these are overwhelming. We are patriotic enough as the world wage, but we cannot surrender our gastronomic liberty. Caesar had his Brutus, Charles I, his Cromwell, and a voluntary association to neither drink or cat Northern good things has its Louisville Journal, if this is treason, make the most of it.-Our friend of the Richmond Whig will forgive us if, after having stood politically shoulder to shoulder for years, we now part stomach to stomach on this question of internal improvements.' It is hard to sunder old ties, and our very bowels will yearn to be reunited, but then stomachic bitters give an appetite and promote digestion, and so we drain the bitter cup to the drugs.-Louisville Journal.
<c02>
The Liberator. 
NO UNION WITH SLAVERHOLDERS.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 16, 1859.
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
AS the Meeting in Tremont Temple, Dec. 2d, relating to the Execution of John Brown.
I do not rise, on this occasion, to define my positions (laughter);that, I believe, Virgins and the South clearly understand, and I as clearly understand theirs. Between as there is an ï¿½irrepressible conflict,(applause,) and I am for carrying it on until it is finished in victory or death, (Renewed applause.)  For, thirty years I have been endeavoring, to effect, by peaceful, moral and religious instrumentalities, the abolition of American slavery; and, if possible, I, hate slavery thirty times more than I did when I began, and I am thirty times more, if possible, an abolitionist of the most uncompromising character. (Loud Applause.) 
With reference to the gentlemen who have preceded me here, I am glad to have the scriptural declaration made good- 'The first shall be last, and the last first.  (Applause.) I shall  heartily rejoice if the, church and the clergy-if men of influence, and high standing, and character-will come forward, and take the lead in this great battle against the gigantic, overshadowing despotism of our land.
A word or two in regard to the characteristics of John Brown. He was of the old Puritan stock-a Cromwellian who ï¿½believed in God, 'and at the same time ï¿½in keeping his powder dry. 'He believed in ï¿½the sword of the Lord and of Gideon,' and acted accordingly. Herein I differed widely from him. But, certainly, he was no ï¿½infidel'-oh, no! How it would have added to the fiendish malignity of the (New York Observer, if John Brown had only been an ï¿½infidel,' evangelically speaking!  But being exactly of the Observer pattern of theology, that fact has been a very hard pill to swallow; yet, so bent upon sustaining slavery in our land is that wicked journal, that it is pre-eminently ferocious in its spirit toward John Brown, and has bean loudly clamorous for his execution, notwithstanding his religious faith.
As it respects his object at Harper's Ferry, it has been truly stated here by those who have preceded me, and by John Brown himself, whose declarations to the court have been read. The man who brands him as a traitor is a calumniator. (Applause.) The man who says that his object was to promote murder, or insurrection, or rebellion, is, in the language of the apostle, ï¿½a liar, and the truth is not in him. (Loud applause.) John Brown meant to effect, if possible, a peaceful exodus from Virginia; and had not his large humanity overpowered his judgment in regard to his prisoners, he would in all probability have succeeded, and not a drop of blood would have been shed. But it is asked, ï¿½Did he not have stored up a large supply of Sharp's rifles and spears? What did they mean?' Nothing offensive, nothing aggressive. Only this:-he designed getting as many slaves as he could to join him, and then putting into their hands those instruments for self-defence. But, mark you! self-defence, not in standing their ground, but on their retreat to the mountains; on their flight to Canada; not with any design or wish to shed the blood or harm the hair of a single slaveholder in the State of Virginia, if a conflict could be avoided. Remember that he had the whole town in his possession for thirty-six hours; and if he had been the man so basely represented in certain quarters, he might have consummated any thing in the way of violence and blood. But, all the while, he was counselling the strictest self-defence, and forbearance to the utmost, even when he had his enemies completely in his power.
As to his trial, I affirm that it was an awful mockery, before heaven and earth! He was not tried in a court of JUSTICE. Mark how they crowded the counts together in one indictment-MURDER, TREASON, and INSURRECTION!  Of what was John Brown convicted? Who knows? Perhaps some of the jury convicted him of treason; others of murder; and others, again, of insurrection. Who can tell? There was no trial upon any specific point. John Brown has been judicially assassinated.  It was the trial of the lamb by the wolf-nothing less. 
See the ferocious spirit of the Virginians, in their treatment of the living and the dead! Let me give you a single specimen, as narrated by an eye-witness. This is Southern testimony:-
ï¿½The deed lay on the streets, and in the river, and were subjected to every indignity that a wild and madly excited people could heap upon them. Curses were freely uttered against them, and kicks and blows inflicted upon them. The huge mulatto that shot Mr. Turner was lying in the gutter in front of the arsenal, with a horrible wound in his neck, and though dead and gory, vengeance was unsatisfied, and many, as they ran sticks into his wound, or beat him with them, wished that he had a thousand lives, that all of them might be forfeited in expiation and avengement of the foul deed he had committed. Leeman lay upon a rock in the river, and was made a target for the practice of those who had captured Sharpe's rifles in the affray. Shot after shot was fired at him, and when tired of this sport, a man waded out to where he lay, and set him up, in grotesque attitudes, and finally pushed him off, and he floated down the stream.
'O, the spirit engendered by Southern slavery! Is there any thing like it on earth? So cowardly, so brutal, so unmerciful, so fiend-like! Truly-
'The planters of Columbia 
Are gods beneath the skies! 
They stamp the slave into the grave,
They feed on famine's sighs!
They blight all homes-they break all hearts, 
Except, alas! their own;
While a moan, and a groan,
That move th' Almighty's throne,
Bring angels' tears in pity down,
And move the Eternal throne!'
They cannot help this. It is because they are slaveholders. It is because they have struck down the sacred rights of man. It is because they have ï¿½exalted themselves above all that is called God. 'It is because they have blotted out the Decalogue, the Golden Rule, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Declaration of Independence; and, conscious of their tremendous guilt, they are carried to the extreme of fiendish desperation whenever they are crossed in their track.
Was John Brown justified in his attempt? Yes, if Washington was in his; if Warren and Hancock were in theirs. If men are justified in striking a blow for freedom, when the question is one of a three penny tax on tea, then, I say, they are a thousand times more justified, when it is to save fathers, mothers, wives and children from the slave-coffle and the auction-block, and to restore to them their God-given rights. (Loud applause.) Was John Brown Justified in interfering in behalf of the slave population of Virginia, to secure their freedom and independence? Yes, if LaFayette was justified in interfering to help our revolutionary fathers. If Koscinsko if Pulaski, if Stenben, if De Kalb, if all who joined them from abroad were justified in that act, then John Brown was incomparably more so. If you believe in the right of assisting men to fight for freedom who are of your own color-(God knows nothing of color or complexion-human rights know nothing of these distinctions)-then you must cover not only with a mantle of charity, but with the admiration of your hearts, the effort of John Brown at Harper's Ferry. I am trying him by the American standard; and I hesitate no to say, with all deliberation, that those who are attempting to decry him are dangerous members of the community; they are those in whom the love of liberty has died out; they are the Hasal descendants of the tories, of the Revolution, only a great deal worse. (Applause.) If the spirit of 76 prevailed to-day, as it did at that period, it would make the soil of the Commonwealth too
<c03>
hot to hold them. (Loud applause.) See the consistency, the vigilance, the determination of the South in support of her slave system! She moves and acts as by one impulse. Every man on her soil who is suspected of cherishing the principles of liberty in tabooed, persecuted, and brutally outraged, especially if he be from the North. She makes clean work of it, and is consistent.  On the other hand, how is it at the North?  Presses which are venomously pro-slavery in spirit, and wholly Southern in their design, are every where allowed; presses which insult the good name and fame of the old Commonwealth, dishonor her illustrious dead, and contemn her glorious memories, for the purpose of ï¿½crushing out' the spirit of freedom, and making absolute the sway of a ferocious slave oligarchy-and this they do with impunity. Now I say that if the North should, in defence of her free institutions, imitate the example of the South in support of slavery, there would be a speedy and thorough cleaning out of our cities and towns, of these who are desecrating the ground upon which they stand. (Load applause.) And it would be a more hopeful state of things than it is now; for this toleration is not the result of principle, but the lack of it-it is not a noble forbearance, but a loss of vital regard for the cause of liberty. 
A word upon the subject of Peace. I am a non-resistant-a believer in the inviolability of human life, under all circumstances; I, therefore, in the name of God, disarm John Brown, and every slave at the South. But I do not stop there; if I did, I should be a monster. I also disarm, in the name of God, every slaveholder and tyrant in the world. (Loud applause.) For wherever that principle is adopted, all fetters must instantly melt, and there can be no oppressed, and no oppressor, in the nature of things, How many agree with me in regard to the doctrine of the inviolability of human life?  How many non-resistants are there here to-night? (A single voice- I.') Then is one! (Laughter.) Well, then, you who are otherwise are not the men to point the finger at John Brown, and cryï¿½ traitorï¿½-judging you by your own standard. (Applause.) Nevertheless, I am a non-resistant, and I not only desire, but have labored unremittingly to effect the peaceful abolition of slavery, by an appeal to the reason and conscience of the slaveholder; yet, as a peace man-an ï¿½ultra' peace man-I am prepared to say,' Success to every slave insurrection at the South, and in every slave country. '(Enthusiastic applause.) And I do not see how I compromise or stain my peace profession in making that declaration.  Whenever there is a contest between the oppressed and the oppressor,-the weapons being equal between the parties,-God knows that my heart must be with the oppressed, and always against the oppressor. Therefore, whenever commenced, I cannot but wish success to all slave insurrections. (Loud applause.) I thank God when men who believe in the right and duty of wielding carnal weapons are so far advanced that they will take those weapons out of the scale of despotism, and throw them into the scale of freedom. It is an indication of progress, and a positive moral growth; it is one way to get up to the sublime platform of non-resistance; and it is God's method of dealing retribution upon the head of the tyrant. Rather than see men wearing their chains in a cowardly and servile spirit, I would, as an advocate of peace, much rather see them breaking the head of the tyrant with their chains. Give me, as a non-resistant, Bunker Hill, and Lexington, and Concord, rather than the cowardice and servility of a Southern slave plantation.
The verdict of the world, whether ï¿½resistance to tyrants is obedience to God, 'has been rendered in the affirmative in every age and clime. Whether the weapons used in the struggle against despotism have been spiritual or carnal, that verdict has been This:-
'Glory to those who die in Freedom's cause! 
Courts, judges, can inflict no brand of shame,
Or shape of death, to shroud them from applause!
No, manglers of the martyr's earthly frame,
Your hangmen fingers cannot touch his fame!
Long trains of ill may pass, unheeded, dumb-
But Vengeance is behind, and Justice is to come!' 
(Loud applause.)
We have been warmly sympathizing with John Brown all the way through, from the time of his arrest till now.  Now he no longer needs our sympathy, for he is beyond suffering, and wears the victor's crown. Are we to grow morbid over his death, to indulge in sentimental speech, to content ourselves with an outburst of emotional feeling, and not to come up to the work of abolishing slavery? I confess, I am somewhat apprehensive in regard to this powerful and wide-spread excitement, lest there may follow an exhaustion of the system, a disastrous reaction, in consequence of neglecting to make it directly subservient to the cause of emancipation by earnest and self-sacrificing effort. I see in every slave on the Southern plantation a living John Brown-one to be sympathized with far more than ever John Brown needed sympathy, whether in the jail or on the scaffold at Charlestown. I see four millions of living John Browns needing our thoughts, our sympathies, our prayers, our noblest exertions to strike off their fetters. And, by God's help, will we not do it? What can we do? I do not know that we can do any thing for Virginia. She seems past all salvation- to have beenï¿½ given over to believe a lie that she may be damned. 'But here we stand, with our feet upon the old Pilgrim ground; and I ask the sons of the Fathers, are we not competent to make the old Bay State free to all who tread its soil? (Enthusiastic applause.) Are we to have another Anthony Bums rendition? ('No!ï¿½ No!') Shall we allow any more slave-hunting from Berkshire to Barnstable? ('No!' ï¿½No!') No? How, then, will you prevent it? You must make that decree a matter of record, through your representatives in the State House; and if you want to do an effectual work tomorrow, and to consummate John Brown's object as far as you can, see to it that you put your names to the petition to the Legislature, now in circulation, asking that body to declare that, henceforth, no human being shall be regarded, tried or treated as a slave within the limits of this Commonwealth. (Immense applause.) But that is ï¿½treason,'(laughter,) and John Brown was aï¿½ traitor. 'The Boston Post and the Boston Courier are very anxious to discover who were the instigators of the Harper's Ferry rebellion. Most disinterested and patriotic journals! When you read any of their editorials on this subject, just look at the bottom and see in staring capitals-ï¿½SOLD TO THE DEVIL, AND PAID FOR.'(Laughter and applause.)
Who instigated John Brown? Let us see. It must have been Patrick Henry, who said-and he was a Virginian-' Give me liberty, or give me death!'  Why do they not dig up his bones, and give them to the consuming fire, to show their abhorrence of his memory? It must have been Thomas Jefferson-another Virginian-who said of the bondage of the Virginia slaves, thatï¿½ one hour of it is fraught with mere misery than ages of that which our fathers row in rebellion to oppose'-and who, as the author of the Declaration of Independence, proclaimed it to be ï¿½a SELF-EVIDENT TRUTH, that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with AN INALIENABLE RIGHT TO LIBERTY.'(Applause.) Beyond all question, it must have been VIRGINIA HERSELF, who, by her coat of arms, with its terrible motto, ï¿½Sic semper-tyrannis,' asserts the right of the oppressed to trample their oppressors beneath their feet, and, if necessary, consign them to a bloody grave!  Herein John Brown found the strongest incitement and the fullest justification.
Who instigated the deed at Harper's Ferry? The people whose motto is, ï¿½Resistance to tyrants is obedience to Godï¿½-and whose exulting talk is of Bunker Hill and Yorktown, and the deeds of their REVOLUTIONARY sires!  Nay, we must go back to the source of life itself:-ï¿½So God created man in his
<c04>
own image; male and female created he them. 'Thus making an irrepressible conflict' between the soul of man and tyranny from the beginning and confirming what Lord Brougham so eloquently uttered years ago-ï¿½Tell me not of rights; talk not of the property of the planter in his slaves. I deny the right; I acknowledge not the property. The principles, the feelings of our nature rise in rebellion against it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the sentence is the same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim. There is a law above all the enactments of human codes- the same throughout the world, the same in all time- it is the law written by the finger of God upon the heart of man; and by that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they will reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy that man can hold property in man.'(Loud applause.)
We have a natural right, therefore, to seek the abolition of slavery throughout the globe. It is our special duty to make Massachusetts free soil, so that the moment the fugitive slave stands upon it, he shall take his place in the ranks of the free. God commands us to ï¿½hide the outcast, and beware not him that wandereth.' I say, LET THE WILL OF GOD BE DONE! That is ï¿½the head and front' of my ï¿½fanaticism'! That is the extent of my' infidelity'! That, comprehends all of my ï¿½treason'! THE WILL OF GOD BE DONE! (Great applause.) 
God forbid that we should any longer continue the accomplices of thieves and robbers, of men-stealers and women-whippers! We must join together in the name of freedom. As for the Union-where is it, and what is it? In one half of it, no man can exercise freedom of speech or of the press-no man can utter the words of Washington, of Jefferson, or of Patrick Henry-except at the peril of his life; and Northern men are every where hunted and driven from the South, if they are supposed to cherish the sentiment of freedom in their bosom.  We are living under an awful despotism-that of a brutal slave oligarchy. And they threaten to leave us, if we do not continue to do their evil work, as we have hitherto done it, and go down in the dust before them! Would to Heaven they would go! (Prolonged cheering.) It would only be the paupers clearing out from the town, would it not?(Laughter and cheers.)  But, no; they do not mean to go; they mean to cling to you; and they mean to subdue you? But will you be subdued? [ï¿½No!'ï¿½ No!'] I tell you, our work is THE DISSOLUTION OF THIS SLAVERY CURSED UNION, if we would have a fragment of our liberties left to us! [Applause.] Surely, between freemen who believe in exact justice and impartial liberty, and slaveholders who are for cleaving down all human rights at a blow, it is not possible there should be any union whatever. ï¿½How can two walk together, except they be agreed? 'The slaveholder, with his hands dripping in blood, will I make a compact with him? The man who plunders cradles, will I say to him,ï¿½ Brother, let us walk together in unity'? The man who, to gratify his lust or his anger, scourges woman with the lash till the soil is red with her blood, will I say to him,ï¿½ Give me your hand; let us form a glorious Union'? No, never-never! [Applause.] There can be no union between us. ï¿½What concord hath Christ with Belial?' What union has Freedom with Slavery? Let us tell the inexorable and remorseless tyrants of the South that their conditions, hitherto imposed upon us, whereby we are morally responsible for the existence of slavery, are horribly inhuman and wicked, and we cannot carry them out for the sake of their evil company. By the dissolution of the Union, we shall give the finishing blow to the slave system; and then God will make it possible for us to form a true, vital, enduring, all-embracing Union, from the Atlantic to the Pacific-one God to be worshipped, one Savior to be revered, one policy to be carried out-freedom every where to all the people, without regard to complexion or race-and the blessing of God resting upon us all! [Loud applause.] I want to see that glorious day! Now the South is full of tribulation, and terror, and despair, going down to irretrievable bankruptcy, andï¿½ fearing each bush an officer.'  Would to God it might all pass away like a hideous dream! And how easily it might be!  What is it that God requires of the South, to remove every root of bitterness, to allay every fear, to fill her borders with prosperity? But one simple act of justice, without violence or convulsion, without danger or hazard. It is this:- 'Undo the heavy burdens, BREAK EVERY YOKE, AND LET THE OPPRESSED GO FREE. Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy darkness shall be as the noon-day. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in.' 
How simple and how glorious! It is the complete solution of all the difficulties in the case. O that the South may be wise before it is too late, and give heed to the word of the Lord! But, whether she will hear or forbear, let us renew our pledges to the cause of bleeding humanity, and spare no effort to make this truly the land of the free, and the refuge of the oppressed! 
'Onward, then, ye fearless band, 
Heart to heart, and hand to hand, 
Yours shall be the Christian's stand, 
Or the martyr's grave.'
Mr. Garrison took his seat amid loud and long continued cheering.
SAMUEL E. SEWALL, Esq.:
DEAR SIR-It is impossible for me to be present at the Temple this evening, and fulfil what I regard as an imperative engagement elsewhere, which I regret. 
I feel that the occasion is one which should call serious and patriotic persons to consider their relations to that system of oppression which has made a wise man mad, and which, to-day, has judicially terminated an earthly life, to all appearance, worthier of duration here than that of any of those who have agreed to bring it to a severe, but not ignominious end.
I myself am persuaded that John Brown was a monomaniac-made such by the horrible weight of Kansas troubles-and I cannot justify what seems to me a premature, ill-judged, and every way crazy and wrong act. But when I consider the conscientious calmness and religious determination which accompanied the deed, that which would else be utter and pernicious folly becomes glorified, by the motive with a heroism worthy to go on record with  the brightest examples of Scotch and Revolutionary History; and we cannot help feeling that ï¿½e'em the light that led astray was light from Heaven.' 
Truly yours,
HENRY M. DEXTER. 
Boston, December 2, 1859.

LETTER.
To HENRY WILSON, SENATOR AT WASHINGTON:
SIR,-I had intended to delay writing what I have to say upon the subject of this letter until such time as I could speak of an act which, performed by you, had become part of the history of the contest between freedom and slavery in America, rather than, as I now do, enter upon a discussion of a proposed measure of party policy. But upon further consideration, I have decided, inasmuch as a word of remonstrance is better than a word of censure, to adopt the latter course. 
The telegraphic reporters announce, by your procurement, I suppose, certainly with your approbation, that youï¿½ seize the earliest convenient opportunity to disclaim,' from your easy chair in the Senate Chamber, 'any connection or sympathy with JOHN BROWN'S raid.' I apply to the event at Harper's Ferry the
<c05>
title which I suppose to come from your own lips, although I prefer the word,- which I believe will be awarded to it, when hereafter that affair shall be studied in the light of subsequent events,-rebellion. I am also credibly informed, by persons who have the honor of your acquaintance, that you declared the same intention before you left Massachusetts, to enter upon the performance of your official duties. I am further informed by the same authority, that you consider the enterprise in which John Brown was engaged when he fell into the hands of the Slave Power, as wild, fanatical, insane, unjustifiable by the law of God or man; as a miserable failure, in that its immediate purpose was not accomplished, and as disastrous to the cause of freedom, in that it may postpone the election of President pledged to your and my political faith. I believe I have truly stated the reasons which induce you to adopt the course which the country is assured you are to follow.
Does it not occur to you that you are about to do a very foolish thing? Let us return for a moment to the principles upon which this crusade against wrong, in which you are a prominent chieftain, and I am the humblest of your retinue, was commence. For what are we striving? Is the success of party our ultimate purpose? Will our work be accomplished when Mr. Seward, or Mr. Chase, or Mr. Fremont, or Mr. Bates, or Mr. Reed, or yourself, or any other man representing for the moment our section of the army of freedom, occupies the Presidential chair?- or when the Republican party, having possession of the Federal Government, shall have banished every Democrat from every custom-house and post-office in the land; when it shall have abolished slavery in the District of Columbia, and declared the inter-State slave trade piracy; when it shall have repealed the Fugitive Slave Act; when the principle of the Wilmot proviso shall have become the law of the land; when the Federal Judiciary shall have erased the foul blot which now mars its record? I think not. I apprehend that even you, harassed as you are by an ever present fear that some word of yours may defeat the election of some partizan candidate for office, will acknowledge that our work will not be complete while American freedom continues to be a fragmentary development. Believing as we do that the conflict between freedom and slavery is irrepressible, we can accede to no peace save that which shall ensue from the annihilation of the foe. It is then the extinction of slavery which is our ultimate object. The ephemeral phases of the contest are but minor incidents. The admission of Kansas as a free State, the abolition of slavery within the federal jurisdiction, the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Act, are preliminary questions. There are many citadels to be besieged and conquered before we can gain that great battlefield where we are to meet the whole army of slavery.
Shall we then complain if John Brown, leading a forlorn hope, has opened a shorter way to the central encampment of the enemy? That brave old man accomplished his victory only by his death. And shall we now humbly apologize to the enemy because the bravest of our braves has attacked him on a field he was not prepared to defend? Do the articles of war demand that course? Or are you afraid of desertions from our camp when our soldiers find how well campaign is progressing?
You fear that John Brown's sortie at Harper's Ferry may so weaken your forces that they will suffer defeat in the battle eleven months hence; but if the one places us nearer ultimate victory than the other, ought we to sigh over the lesser defeat? The forces of slavery are struck with fear and trembling. The South is aroused to a sense of impending danger. Slave masters are beginning to understand that they maintain their position only by force of actual or imputed superior power. And to three millions of bondmen, that conception of a better state, and of a possibility of its attainment, which once perfected dooms slavery to sure destruction, is rapidly coming John Brown's rebellion sounds a note of preparation for the slave, and of warning to the master; and it the white man neglects the call, the black man will not. This is the warning you are to take up and to repeat, if you do your duty. To you as a Senator, sworn to devote your best energies to the protection and preservation of the Constitution, the Union and the liberty of America; as a citizen acknowledging fealty to the national compact; as an anti-slavery agitator, pledged to hold your opposition to slavery above all considerations of party policy, and to continue your course whether in majorities or in minorities; as a Christian, seeking to accomplish the will of the Master, to establish freedom and to preserve peace, you are bound to proclaim that warning.
But you ever that a regard for party success, which I do not charge you with placing above, but which you certainly confound with, substantial victory, requires that you shall denounce the ï¿½raid' of John Brown as the insane project of a shattered brain, as anomalous, as having no connection with the anti-slavery agitation, as not being necessary as a result therefrom, or as an aid to its further progress; in fine, as having no other cause, direct or remote, than the whim of a madman. But in this you are mistaken. The public sentiment which spoke out all through New England on the evening of Dec.2d, proves that the rebellion at Harper's Ferry Sprang from a cause existing among the people; that a time had arrived in the progress of events, when it became necessary to serve a purpose in the contest; that John Brown was but the executive who gave effect to what the great Northern mind had, insensibly to itself, perhaps, enacted and approved.
Do you doubt? Had you at Worcester, at any one of some scores of villages I might name, had you even at Boston, on the night of Friday last, uttered the words which you will think it necessary to speak in order that some pro-slavery State or district may be deceived into upholding anti-slavery men, you had certainly been convinced right speedily.
Massachusetts progresses. Five years ago, your election to the United States Senate was a great triumph of your special principles over prejudice, just and otherwise, against yourself. We have now no occasion to desire popularity in our candidates. Our nominees are all available, so long as they are true to our cause. We are no longer conservative. We are no longer obliged to say to the printer of the Liberator, 'Please, sir, abuse us a little, 'when election day is at hand. We are a respectable party; we have a millionaire among us; we have had a plurality of the votes of Boston. More than this, we have, even here in Boston. More than this, we have even here in Boston, as we have been informed by a Senator of Massachusetts, an association of gentlemen of property and standing, of gentlemen eminent in law, in literature, and in commerce, in some part, perhaps, of gentlemen in official station, who, at their weekly gatherings, drink this sentiment-'SUCCESS TO THE FIRST SLAVE INSURRECTION AT THE SOUTH!' And I am indeed permitted to go further and to say to you, that the same Senator of Massachusetts to whom I have referred as my authority for this statement, obtained his knowledge of the fact by his own personal presence at one of these gatherings, some months before he was placed at the head of the Democratic party in this Commonwealth, and that that Senator, forgetful of his position., of his surroundings, of the lessons he had learned in many years of grovelling subserviency, of the sentiments which appear to be his inheritance, joined in outward action, and apparently in sincerity of heart, in this ï¿½foolish, fanatical, insane, or treasonable' toast.
Is it for you, who are set as an example unto us, to halt and stagger before the lion in the path, while humbler men are not afraid to follow? If you hesitate, can you expect that those who, like the Senator I have mentioned, have been but almost persuaded, will do otherwise than return to their wallowing in the mire?
REPUBLICAN FROM THE START.
<c06>
BROWN DEMONSTRATION AT MILFORD.
DEAR GARRISON:
I am glad to inform you and the friends of freedom, that our meeting on the evening of Dec. 2d was in every sense a complete success. Indeed, it far exceeded our highest expectations. We took our preliminary steps with some misgivings and trembling. Our Hopedale friends, with some few exceptions, turned the cold shoulder, and doubted the propriety of all such gatherings, on the ground of compromising their non-resistance. But, looking to God for wisdom, we concluded to go on, not doubting that we could do so, and still make a clean record for the act in the court of Heaven. The result has convinced us that our work was righteous, and the reward more than ï¿½sixty-fold.'
In your last paper, you announced that the people of Milford would hold a meeting on the evening of the day of John Brown's execution, and that the bell hung on the Town House would at the appropriate time be tolled. Notwithstanding many obstacles, all that was promised we accomplished. And first, let me record with sincere gratification, that an earnest and free prayer-meeting, in sympathy for John Brown and his bereaved family, was held at the Congregational Church. James T. Woodbury, the pastor, presided, and opened the meeting in a faithful manner-worthy of an Abolitionist. You and, on this occasion, he went back to his first love. There was an earnest and deep sympathetic tone is the words uttered and prayers offered. One of the speakers attempted a very feeble apology for wicked Nehemiah Adams, and would not have him denounced as an unworthy minister of Christ. He was faithfully replied to by a gentleman from Mr. Beecher's Church, of Brooklyn, N.Y., who doubted whether a man so recreant as Dr. Adams could know anything about Christ or his spirit.
The fact was announced, that seven years ago, the Congregational Church of Milford passed a series of resolutions, declaring that no slaveholder should enter their pulpit, or sit at the communion-table. The speaker, who with great satisfaction alluded to this creditable matter, put the following question, turning to Mr. Woodbury in the chair: ï¿½If all other churches in the country took this noble position, how long would slavery continue?' ï¿½Only one day', responded Rev. Mr. Woodbury. Remember this acknowledgment, and then tell us where the sin of American slavery rests. Can that be the Church of Christ, that possesses the key to unlock the dark prison that holds four million groaning slaves, and will not do it?
This meeting, though protracted, kept up its interest to the last, and will long be remembered as a profitable means of helping on the cause of the suffering and enslaved.
The ladies connected with Mr. Woodbury's parish, by their willingness to go from house to house, and shop to shop, have added to the Brown fund $100. God bless them!
And now for our thronged and impressive meeting at the Town Hall in the evening. Promptly, at the hour appointed, every nook and corner, above and below, of our spacious hall, was occupied. George W. Stacy called the meeting to order, and read for acceptance a list of officers, which the Committee had taken the liberty to recommend. The list read was unanimously accepted, as follows: H.H Bowers, Esq., President; A.B. Vant, Nelson Parkhurst and Charles Johnson, Vice Presidents; A. Wilson, Secretary; Ira Stewart, Winslow Battles and B.B Marshall, Committee on Resolutions.
The President, on taking his position, made a few pertinent remarks, showing his heart to be in the right place, and himself, as we before knew, to be true to the purposes of our meeting. The congregation then united in the tune of ï¿½Auld Lang Syne,' and sang the hymn commencing-
'Ho! ye who breathe the breezing air
O'er Massachusetts hills.'
Rev. Mr. Jones, of the Methodist Church, then offered an appropriate and earnest prayer. George W. Stacy followed in an opening address, occupying about thirty minutes. He commenced by referring to the dark and murderous deed of Virginia in the execution of the hero of Harper's Ferry, whose indomitable spirit, so true to his highest light, had entered upon that better life, where tyrants are despoiled of their power-'where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest.'
'The scaffold, ï¿½he continued, ï¿½erected this day by Virginia's minions of affrighted cowards, has proved a cross gilded with glory. The murderous hand of the hangman has freed a spirit too noble, humane and world-wide to breathe any longer the tainted atmosphere of a slave-cursed land. The incensed crowed of soldiery and glutted spectators have gazed upon a scene too sublime for their darkened conceptions; and the last act of this tragic dream shall haunt the midnight hour, and make the tyrant's head restless on his pillow. Ay, the death-knell of Slavery has been sounded; for, as the Lord liveth, ï¿½Freedom shall be proclaimed to all the inhabitants of the earth.";
The character of Brown was briefly sketched-his noble bearing in court and prison portrayed-the absurdity of calling him a traitor repudiated; such a charge is
'False! a truer, nobler, trustier heart,
More loving or more loyal, never beat
Within a human breast.'
The address was attentively listened to till its close, and received with marked approbation. Then followed a series of most excellent and spirited resolutions, by the chairman of the Committee, who read them in a clear and distinct tone, and followed their reading in a few eloquent remarks. Both the resolutions and the remarks were received with great applause 
Mr. Butts, of Hopedale, offered, as expressive of his own views, a series of resolutions, which were not called up for action.
C.L. Remond, of Salem, was now introduced, and enthusiastically received. As he took the platform, Mr. Stacy gave notice that the petition, making Massachusetts a free State, was on the table for signatures.
It would be useless to attempt an outline on the eloquent and stirring remarks of our friend Remond. Enough to say, they were characteristic of the hour and the man, and did most excellent work to fasten on the mind the worth of Anti-Slavery. He called up the latent fire of Abolitionism, and made us all feel the meanness of indifference and opposition is the most radical type of Anti-Slavery. I am happy to say a verbatim report, by Miss Albee, of Hopedale, was made of this well-timed effort, and I trust it may be sent you for insertion in the Liberator; as also a copy of the resolutions, which were also adopted-only two dissenting voices.
Mr. Remond was followed by Mr. Perry of Brooklyn, N.Y., E.M. Marshall and Winslow Battles of Milford. Till the hour of 10 o'clock, the vast audience remained, evidently interested, and impregnated with the importance of our timely and effective meeting. In every sense, this was a successful demonstration, and has left an impression on many hearts not soon, nay, never, we trust, to be forgotten. The Hall was dressed in mourning, as expressive of woman's remembrance of the departure of the slave's martyr. A collection, amounting to some $18, was taken up. A vote was also passed to offer the resolutions for publication in the Boston Daily Bee and Journal, and to forward a copy to Gov. Wise, who has better earned the name of Gov. Foolish.
G.W.S
To-day-Friday, Dec.16-the brave but unfortunate associates of John Brown-Cook, Coppic, Green and Copeland-are to be murderously executed of Charlestown, Va. A day of Reckoning is coming.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
OUR COLORED CITIZENS AND JOHN BROWN.
For the past few weeks, the colored churches of Boston have held prayer meetings for John Brown, and, on the day of his execution, a union meeting at the Twelfth Baptist Church commenced at 11 o'clock, A.M., and continued through the day. Singing, praying and speaking varied the exercises, which augmented in interest as the telegram announced the news from Charlestown, Va. Rev. Messrs. Grimes, Young, Stevens, Thompson, Earle, Henson, Randolph, Charles Lenox Remond, John C. Cluer, Lewis Hayden, Wm. C. Nell, with many others,(colored and white,) participated during the day. 
Many colored persons closed their places of business. Their houses also were arrayed in tributes of mourning and respect, and many wore crape on their arms; some of them with rosettes and portraits of John Brown. 
WORCESTER.
At a meeting of the Anti-Slavery and Temperance Society of the colored citizens of Worcester held on the evening of the 2d inst., a Committee, previously appointed, submitted the following resolutions:— 
Resolved, That, in the death of Capt. John Brown, the cause of freedom throughout the United States has received a severe blow, and the victims of option in this country have lost one of their noblest defenders.
Resolved, That the colored people of the United States, as the special victims of slavery in this country, must feel in an extraordinary degree the force of the blow which has been struck at liberty through taking the life of Capt. John Brown and his fellow martyrs.
Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved families of Capt. John Brown and his fellow-martyrs to liberty, and we will do all in our power to alleviate their distress.
Resolved, That the colored citizens of Worcester be earnestly entreated to purchase the life of Capt. John Brown, in order to assist in raising a fund for the distressed families of those noble men, and to perpetuate their memory and noble character among our people to all future time.
Resolved, That our heart-felt sympathies be extended to those noble men who are yet to suffer in the cause of Freedom; and we sincerely trust that they may be sustained by the Arm of Strength until their warfare shall be over, and they follow their noble captain from labor to reward.
GILBERT WALKER, Chairman.
Mr. William Brown concluded a very spirited address by proposing the following resolve, which was also adopted:
Resolved, That we tender our deepest sympathy to the relatives and friends of those colored patriots who so nobly sacrificed their lives on the altar of Freedom, and that we ever esteem them as martyrs worthy of commemoration.

JOHN BROWN MEETING ON THE CAPE. 
HARWICH, Dec. 3.
On Friday last, the day appointed for the execution of John Brown, a meeting was held by the citizens of Harwich, at Exchange Hall.
The meeting was very large and enthusiastic; about 500 persons were present.
The church bells were tolled, morning, noon and evening, for half an hour, and other demonstrations of like character, to express the sorrow of the people at the fate of the hero, John Brown. Words seemed hardly adequate to express their indignation at the Slave Power—and at their course with the insurrectionists.
The hall was decorated with fit emblems, one of which represented the gallows, ready for the execution, and under it was inscribed: ‘John Brown—Friend of the Slave, To-day, Virginia gives him a Martyr's grave.’
Enthusiastic anti-slavery speeches, all commending Brown's course, were made by the clergymen of Harwich and the neighboring towns, also by some of the leading men and citizens of the village. The following resolutions were adopted by the meeting:—
Resolved, That the Golden Rule of our Lord—'Do unto others as you would have others do unto you,' is the basis of the perpetuity of our civil law, and the security of our social and political happiness.
Resolved, That we have tried the experiment long enough to satisfy every reasonable mind that Slavery and Liberty can never harmonize; one or the other must succumb.
Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with our brethren of the South in their condition of peril and solicitude, and would hasten every feasible effort for the removal of slavery, which portends evil, and only evil, and is the sum of all villunies.
To be truly patriotic is not only to love our country, but to be on the side of equal liberty for every citizen of our country and the world; therefore,
Resolved, That John Brown is the true patriot, and his persecutors and those who procured his death are the real traitors and murderers.
The meeting closed only when darkness came on. A contribution was taken up for the family of John Brown, amounting to thirty dollars.
BOWDON.

MEETING AT NEW BEDFORD.
A large number of colored citizens were assembled on Sunday evening, Dec. 4, at an early hour.
Rev. Mr. Kelly occupied the chair, and was assisted by Messrs. J.B. Smith, Rev. Mr. Leonard, Rev. Mr. Berry. Secretary, Louis A. Bell. The meeting was opened with reading of 58th chap. Isaiah by Rev. Mr. Smith; prayer by Rev. Mr. Leonard, and by singing of the hymn, ‘Am I a Soldier of the Cross?’ In the absence of the Committee on Business, remarks were made by Mr. Abner H. Davis and Rev. J. Mitchell, which were well received. The Committee which consisted of the following persons, viz.: E. R. Johnson, H. Johnson, Dr. Bayne, Rev. Bayne, Rev. J. B. Smith, came in, and the Chairman reported the following resolutions, which were received for discussion:—
Resolved, That this meeting do fully endorse and heartily approve of the spirit manifested by Capt. John Brown and his associates, but deeply regret that the plans so well laid did not succeed. Yet we believe that, under God, the greatest good to the cause of our enslaved brethren will result from the mad career of the slaveholders in sacrificing the lives of their victims, as that act will do more to hasten the downfall of slavery than the liberation of a thousand slaves.
Resolved, That we return thanks to the clergy who have had manly independence enough to speak bold words for John Brown, and also to those trustees that complied with the request to allow the use of their bells to be tolled on that mournful occasion, and we hereby acknowledge our want of belief in the Christian virtues of the trustees of such churches as refused the application; as our religion teaches us to do unto others as we would that they should do unto us.
Resolved, That the memory of John Brown shall be indelibly written upon the tablets of our hearts, and when tyrants cease to oppress the enslaved, we will teach our children to revere his name, and transmit it to the latest posterity, as being the greatest man in the 19th century. 
Resolved, That the Committee appointed at a previous meeting be requested to correspond with Capt. Avis, the jailor, at Charlestown, Va., relating to the of the condition of the colored men Green and Copeland, and to endeavor to ascertain whether they have families, and report the same at another meeting to be called as soon as information is obtained.
Resolved, That the same Committee be authorised to adopt necessary means to inaugurate the 2d day of Dec., and to make arrangements to celebrate the day in an appropriate manner.
<c02>
Mr. H. Johnson sympathized with the sufferers, and admired their noble daring.
Mr. J. S. Bonney supported the resolutions, expressed his sympathy for the cause of the colored people, admired the principles of John Brown, but lamented his fanaticism.
Mr. E. R. Johnson sustained the resolutions in a speech that made a deep impression, eulogizing the clergy who had taken sides with the oppressed, and denouncing those whose lips were padlocked. He said that the same spirit that had animated the martyrs of the Revolution to strike for disfranchisement from the British yoke, impelled the heroes of Harper's Ferry to deeds of valor. He ignored the idea that John Brown was a fanatic, and compared him with the martyrs, who in ancient times had laid down their lives for Christ's sake.
Dr. J. B. Smith read the last letter of John Brown to his family. He proceeded at some length to comment on the progress of slavery, its demands and intention. He said that oppression had, at all times, and under all circumstances, demanded a sacrifice, and that undoubtedly John Brown and his associates were the men chosen by God to become the sacrifice for American Slavery. He believed that if ever there was a time when colored people should become united, that time was now.
Hon. R. French was invited to speak, and made a few remarks fully endorsing the resolutions and spirit of the meeting. He entered heartily into any measure that would benefit the colored man. He believed that Brown had done more good than if he had lived to be an hundred years old. Hattil Kelly was well acquainted with the martyr. He justified Mr. Brown in the course pursued; invoked his shade to disturb Gov. Wise in his midnight slumbers, and to visit the pro-slavery clergy of this city in their studies. Upon the whole, he made a very telling speech.
Remarks were also made by Dr. Bayne, Messrs. H. O. Remington, J. Freedom and W. Ferguson.
The resolutions were unanimously adopted, and at 10 o'clock the meeting adjourned.

JOHN BROWN MEETING IN PROVIDENCE.
A large and enthusiastic meeting was held in Pratt’s Hall, Providence, on Friday, the 2d inst., on the occasion of the execution of John Brown. Hon. A. C. Barstow presided, and speeches were made by the Chairman, Hon. Thomas Davis, Rev. George T. Day, and Rev. A. Woodbury. The entire press of the city had, for several days previous, used its utmost influences to keep the people away; nevertheless, the hall was crowded in every part, and the most radical words received with applause.
The following resolutions were unanimously adopted:—
Whereas, John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and cut off from the hopes of manhood by the statutes of slavery, and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper; therefore, 
Resolved, That while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects, yet in his strong love for freedom, in his heroic spirit, in his fidelity to his convictions, in his faith in righteousness and in his God, in his dignified bearing, whether lying prostrate in the court-room, spurning all unwarrantable means to procure his acquittal, or confined within the cell to await his approaching execution, and in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom, we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired, and which history never fails to honor.
Resolved, That his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas, occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that Territory, call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered, and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice. 
Resolved, That the deep and wide-spread terror among the supporters of slavery, aroused by this handful of earnest men who were seeking the deliverance of the slave, shows how general and deep is the sense of insecurity and danger which the despotism of slavery begets, and furnishes a reason for the most prompt and earnest efforts to remove the cause of these perils by doing complete justice to the slave, and so disarming his resentment.
Resolved, That as liberty is the inalienable right of all men, it can be no real crime for him who is unjustly deprived of freedom to seek deliverance by all wise and moral means; and it is only a fulfilment of the golden rule given by Christ to aid the fugitive in fleeing from oppression by any methods involving no moral wrong.
Resolved, That the fact that resolute and estimable men are willing to risk life even in unwise efforts for the freedom of the American slave, shows that a slaveholding State must always be in peril, and that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action.
Resolved, That we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible; that the oppressor and the oppressed alike may be delivered from both the crime and the consequences of sustaining such an anomaly in a free government, such an incubus upon national energy, such a barrier to true civilization, such a foe to the highest interests of man, and such a scandal upon the religion which Christ has taught us to revere.
In the evening, the same hall was filled, to listen to a lecture from Wm. Wells Brown on ‘The Heroes of Insurrection.' Mr. Brown showed the progress of ideas since the day of the granting of the English Magna Charta to the present time. His heroes were of the pen, the platform and the battle-field. His allusion to Capt. Brown's invasion of Virginia, to give freedom to the bondman, and the present tottering condition of the Slave Power, was well received.
We are requested to give notice, by the publishers and author of a ‘higher law' work, entitled ‘A Dog-eat-Dog State of Society,' that one half the proceeds from its sales will be given in aid of John Brown's family. The large engraving is designed to show the inharmonic condition of society, with a valuable descriptive work, containing some of General Washington's remarks AGAINST SLAVERY, which were suppressed, but which should have been introduced into the late celebrated ‘Address upon Washington.' It also contains Jefferson's and Lafayette's sentiments against slavery. The work may be obtained of Messrs. Reading & Co., No. 8 State street, Boston.

From the New York Tribune of Monday.
THE BURIAL OF JOHN BROWN.
The Passage of the Body to North Elba-The Funeral
-Speeches of J. M. McKim and Wendell Phillips. 
TROY, Dec. 10, 1859.
The little cortege, upon whom devolved the duty of following the remains of John Brown to their final resting-place, have fulfilled that duty, and I sit down to complete for The Tribune the history of the matter. You have already published a record of events up to the time of the arrival of the body in this city, and at this point I commence my narrative.
The party reached Troy on Monday afternoon, at 2 o'clock, and stopped at the American House. They came without notice, but news of their arrival soon spread, and some of the most respectable people of the place called to express their condolence with Mrs. Brown, and to testify to the gentlemen who accompanied her their respect for their mission.
The American House is a temperance hotel, and had been Capt. Brown's usual stopping-place when in this city. The landlord showed, with much <illegible> the autograph of John Brown in several places on his register, and said that he had been offered tempting prices if he would consent to part with them. The party only
<c03>
tarried long enough to make their connection with the next train North; but, during this brief space, a large number of persons, including not a few of the colored class, sought and found an opportunity of shaking Mrs. Brown's hand, in token of their sympathy. They would have formed a procession to accompany her from the hotel to the depot, but a gentleman, fearing it might be painful to Mrs. Brown's feelings, and unwilling to add, even in the slightest degree, to her trials, discouraged them.
It was at the American House that Oliver Brown took leave of his young bride in September last, shortly before the affair at Harper's Ferry, in which he lost his life. Mr. Brown had indicated it in his last interview with his wife, as a proper place for her to stop at on her way home.
Starting at 4 o'clock P. M., the party reached Rutland, Vt., about 10; there they remained until 5 the next morning, at which hour they resumed their journey, and at 10 A. M. reached Vergennes, Vt. There they stopped at the fine large hotel kept by the gentlemanly Messrs. Stevens, where they were most hospitably entertained, and all their wants provided for. The news that the widow of John Brown had arrived with the body of her husband spread like wild-fire. Soon the Hotel was crowded by leading citizens of the place who came to express their respect and sympathy. Carriages were provided in which to convey the body and the party accompanying it to the Lake shore. A procession was formed in front, noiselessly and in a very short space of time, and, when the hour came to start, all moved forward amid the tolling of solemn bells. Arrived at the bridge over Otter Creek, a distance of about a third of a mile, the gentlemen composing the procession halted, and, forming themselves into a double line and uncovering their heads, allowed the body, with the stricken widow and her friends, to pass through; and thus they took their leave. It was a spontaneous tribute, and an affecting sight. 
At the Lake shore a boat was in readiness, which, deflecting from its usual course, landed the party close by the town of Westport; thus, by saving time and trouble, accelerating them on their journey. Mrs. Brown was now among the friends and familiar acquaintances of her husband, and every kindness that the occasion called for was freely bestowed; and her companions, too, shared in the good will which was manifested for her. Without delay conveyances were provided, and the little cortege was soon on its way to Elizabethtown, where they were to tarry for the night. A heavy rain was falling, and the snow was disappearing so fast that it had been deemed best to substitute wheel-carriages for sleighs. On reaching Elizabethtown, which is the seat of justice of Essex, the party stopped at the hotel kept by E. A. Adams, Esq., who is also Sheriff of the County. Mr. Adams at once offered the Court-House as a place in which to deposit the body for the night, with an assurance that a little company should be formed to guard it. This offer was accepted, and in a few minutes, raining as it was, and without any previous notice, a respectable procession was formed, and the body borne to its temporary resting-place. The house was soon filled by the leading residents of the town, eager to learn from Messrs. Phillips and McKim all the particulars of the execution. They found it hard to realize that their old friend and fellow-citizen, the man whom they had known so well, and only known to respect, had actually been put to death. They had not thought that, in the last extremity, Virginia would do the bloody deed. They did not see how Gov. Wise could have deliberately consented to the death of such a man. 
The party were now within twenty-five miles of their destination. But the road lay over a mountain, and was well-nigh impassable; so that, short as was the distance, it would take the whole of the next day (Wednesday) to accomplish the journey. Mr. Henry Adams, a son of the sheriff, volunteered to start off in the night, with a swift horse, to notify the family of the party's approach. Six young men, including several lawyers of the place, took it upon themselves to sit up all night in the court-house as a guard of the body. Among them were O. Abel, Jr., J. Q. Dickinson, R. Hand, and Mr. Haskell; the names of the other two I did not learn. Among the gentlemen who called to express their sympathy with Mrs. Brown, and to pay their respects to the escort, were Judge Hall, the Hon. A. Kellogg, late Member of Congress, G. L. Nicholson, Esq., and many others, all without respect of party. 
At daylight the next morning, the journey was resumed. The roads were found to be even worse than was anticipated. At 10 o'clock, the party arrived at the house of Phineas Norton, an old friend of Mr. Brown, living in the town of Keene. It had taken all that time to accomplish these eight miles. Mr. Norton welcomed them most hospitably. He had known Mr. Brown well, and loved him dearly. He had not been able to realize that the sentence of death would really be executed. The proof furnished by the coffin containing the dead body quite overcame him.
After stopping a short time for refreshment, the party again started on their way. Slowly they climbed the mountain pass, and as slowly descended on the other side. The sun had set before they reached North Elba, and it was after night when they approached the house to which they were destined. As they drew nigh, they saw moving lights, which, on their nearer approach, proved to be lanterns in the hands of men who had come out to meet them. By these, they were conducted in silence to the house. Not a word was spoken. These friends had been waiting all the afternoon in anxious expectation, and, unable to bear the suspense any longer, had come out to ascertain, if possible, the cause of the delay. The carriage which bore Mrs. Brown stopped at the door. She alighted with difficulty, being much agitated. Instantly there was a sharp, low cry of ‘Mother!' and, in answer, another in the same tone of mingled agony and tenderness, ‘O! Anna!' and the mother and daughter were locked in a long, convulsed embrace. Then followed the same scene with the next daughter, Sarah; and then Ellen, the little girl of five, was brought, and another burst of anguish and love ensued. Then came the daughter-in-law, Oliver's widow, and there went up a low wail, before which flint itself would have softened. It was a scene entirely beyond description. 
But soon all was composed. The strangers had been introduced. Emotion had been put under restraint—an accustomed task with these people-and all was quiet. The evening meal had been ready for some time, and the family and guests, who by this time had received some accessions to their number, took their seats. Supper was soon despatched; no one, cold and wearisome as had been the day's travel, was much disposed to eat.
In a few moments, Mrs. Brown announced to Mr. McKim and Mr. Phillips, that the family were all gathered in another room, waiting anxiously to hear a recital of what had happened; and the rest were invited to join them. There was Salmon Brown, the only son at home, an intelligent-looking and handsome man of 23, tall, stout, with rich auburn hair, and a full and becoming beard; then there was Ruth Thompson, the eldest daughter, a child of John Brown by his first wife; then the daughters and daughters-in-law already alluded to, besides some others whose names I do not recollect.
Mr. McKim, at Mrs. Brown's request, began, and related, as well as he could in so short a space as was allowed, all that had happened of particular interest to them from the time of their mother's arrival in Philadelphia, on the 12th of Nov. up to that moment. 
When Mr. McKim had finished, Mr. Phillips took up the theme, and, in the tenderest and most beautiful manner, pursued it, till ali tears were wiped away. A holy, pensive joy seemed gradually to dispel all grief, and a becoming filial and conjugal pride to reconcile these stricken ones to their destiny.
It was a late hour, and the duties and trials of the morrow admonished the party that some of them had need of rest.
Mr. Brown had expressed a desire that his body should be laid in the shadow of a rock, not far from his house. This rock, after the more striking features of the surrounding scenery, was the first object to arrest my attention. It stands about fifty feet from the house, is about eight feet in height, and from fifteen to twenty feet square. It is a very picturesque aspect, and the recollection of it would naturally suggest to the mind of Mr. Brown a place for the interment of his body.
The Brown Farm at North Elba is on the highest arable spot of land in the State, If, indeed, soil so hard and sterile can be called arable. The question was asked in my hearing, why Mr. Brown should have chosen a spot so difficult of cultivation, and yielding so poor a requital to labor? and the answer was, that he had come there in pursuance of the great purpose of his life. The land formerly belonged to Gerrit Smith, and lies near to those large tracts which that gentleman had presented as a free gift to certain colored people, and through them to benefit their race, that he had originally come to a place so unpromising to the agriculturist. 
The funeral was to take place at 1 o'clock from the house; by that time the neighbors were gathered, and all were ready. The country is sparsely settled, and there was room, with some crowding, for all who came. The services were commenced with a hymn, which had been a great favorite with Mr. Brown, and with which it was said he had successively sung all his children to sleep:—
‘Blow ye the trumpet, blow-
The gladly solemn sound;
Let all the nations know.
To earth’s remotest bound, 
The year of Jubilee has come,' &c.
It was sung to the good old tune of Lenox. It will be at once recognized by all who know anything about the old-fashioned sacred music, and it will readily be seen why it was a favorite with Mr. Brown. The air
<c04>
has a stirring, half-military ring, and the words smack of liberty. Its themes are ‘jubilee,' ‘ransom,’ &c., and it seems to blow the trumpet of freedom.
After the hymn, followed an impressive prayer: by the Rev. Joshua Young, of Burlington, Vt. It was spontaneous offering, as will be readily inferred when I say that Mr. Young. with his friend Mr. Bigelow, had travelled all night through the storm and over the dismal mountain to be present at the burial.
Mr. J. Miller McKim, of Philadelphia, then made some very feeling, pertinent and impressive remarks.
Mr. McKim concluded with exhortations to the family and friends to be comforted assuring them that by their sacrifices they had made large contributions to the cause of Freedom and Humanity; that in this respect their position was an honorable, and by many would be regarded as an enviable one, and that the hearts of tens of thousands beat in the deepest sympathy with them.

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WENDELL PHILLIPS followed Mr. McKim, and said
How feeble words seem here! How can I hope to utter what your hearts are full of? I fear to disturb the harmony which his life breathes round this home. One and another of you, his neighbors, say, ‘I have known him five years,’ I have known him ten years' It seems to me as if we had none of us known him. How our admiring, loving wonder has grown, day by day, as he has unfolded trait after trait of earnest, brave, tender, Christian life! We see him walking with radiant, serene face to the scaffold, and think what an iron heart, what devoted faith! We take up his letters, beginning, ‘My dear wife and children, every one of them’-see him stoop on his way to the scaffold and kiss that negro child-and this iron heart seems all tenderness. Marvellous old man! We have hardly said it when the loved forms of his sons, in the bloom of young devotion, encircle him, and we remember he is not alone, only the majestic centre of a group. Your neighbor farmer went, surrounded by his household, to tell the slaves there were still hearts and right arms ready and nerved for their service. From this roof four, from a neighboring one two, to make up that score of heroes. How resolute each looked into the face of Virginia, how loyally each stood at his forlorn post, meeting death cheerfully, till that master-voice said, ‘It is enough.' And these weeping children and widows seem so lifted up and consecrated by long, single-hearted devotion to his great purpose, that we dare to remind them even now, in this first bitter hour, how blessed they are in the privilege of thinking that in the last throbs of those brave young hearts, which lie buried on the banks of the Shenandoah, thoughts of them mingled with love to God and hope for the slave. He has abolished Slavery in Virginia. You may say this is too much. Our neighbors are the last men we know. The hours that pass us are the ones that we appreciate the least. Men walked Boston streets, when night fell on Bunker's Hill, and pitied Warren, saying, ‘Foolish man! Thrown away his life! Why didn't he measure his means better?' We see him standing colossal that day on the blood-stained sod, and severing the tie that bound Boston to Great Britain. That night George III. ceased to rule in New England. History will date Virginia Emancipation from Harper's Ferry. True, the slave is still there. So, when the tempest uproots a pine on your hills, it looks green for months a year or two. Still, it is timber, not a tree. John Brown has loosened the roots of the slave system; it only breathes-it does not live-hereafter. Men say,’ How coolly brave!' But in him matchless courage seems the least of his merits. How gentleness graced it! When the frightened town wished to bear off the body of the Mayor, a man said,’ I will go, Miss Fouke, under their rifles, if you will stand between them and me.' He knew he could trust their gentle respect for woman, those brave Northern boys. He was right. He went in the thick of the fight, and bore off the body in safety. That same girl flung herself between Virginia rifles and your brave young Thompson. They had no pity. The merciless bullet reached him, spite of woman's prayers, though the fight had long been over. How God has blessed him! How truly he may say, ‘I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course.' Truly he has finished-done his work. God granted him the privilege to look upon his work accomplished. He said, ‘I will show the South that twenty men can take possession of a town, hold it twenty-four hours, and carry away all the slaves who wish to escape.' Did he not do it?-On Monday night he stood master of Harper's Ferry-could have left unchecked with a score or hundred slaves. Let us thank God for the fifteen or twenty that did escape, and are safe under the British flag. The wide sympathy and secret approval are shown by the eager, quivering lips of lovers of slavery, asking, ‘Oh, why did he not take his victory and go away?' Who checked him at last? Not startled Virginia. Her he had conquered. The “Union crushed-seemed to crush him. In reality God said, ‘Your work is done; you have proved that a slave State is only Fear in the mask of Despotism; come up higher, and baptize by your martyrdom a million hearts into holier life.' Surely such a life is no failure. How vast the change in men's hearts! Insurrection was a harsh, horrid word to millions a month ago. John Brown went a whole generation beyond it, claiming the right for white men to help the slave to freedom by arms. And now men run up and down, not disputing his principle, but trying to frame excuses for Virginia's hanging of so pure, honest, high-hearted, and heroic a man. Virginia stands at the bar of the civilized world on trial. Round her victim crowd the apostles and martyrs, all the brave, high souls who have said ‘God is God,' and trodden wicked laws under their feet. As I stood looking on his grandfather's gravestone, brought here from Connecticut, telling, as it does, of his death in the Revolution, I thought I could hear our hero-saint saying, ‘My fathers gave their swords to the oppressor-the slave still sinks before the pledged force of this nation. I give my sword to the slave my fathers forgot.' If any swords ever reflected the smile of Heaven, surely it was those drawn at Harper's Ferry. If our God is ever the Lord of Hosts, making one man chase a thousand, surely that little band might claim him for their captain. Others have fought for themselves, and died for their own rights. This man died for a race in whose blood he had no share. Harper's Ferry was no single hour, standing alone-taken out from a common life-it was the flowering of fifty years of single-hearted devotion. He must have lived wholly for one. great idea, when these who owe their being to him, ‘and these whom love has joined, group so harmoniously around him, each accepting serenely his and her part. I feel honored to stand under such a roof. Hereafter you will tell children standing at your knees, ‘I saw John Brown buried-I sat under his roof.' Thank God for such a master. Could we have asked a nobler representative of the Christian North putting her foot on the accursed system of Slavery? As time passes, and these hours float back into history, men will see against the clear December sky that gallows, and round it thousands of armed men guarding Virginia from her slaves. On the other side, the serene face of that calm old man, as he stoops to kiss the child of a forlorn race. Thank God for our emblem. May he soon bring Virginia to blot out hers in repentant shame, and cover that hateful gallows and soldiery with thousands of broken fetters! What lesson shall those lips teach us? Before that still, calm brow, let us take a new baptism. How can we stand here without a fresh and utter consecration? These tears! how shall we dare even to offer consolation? Only lips fresh from such a vow have the right to mingle their words with your tears. We envy you your nearer place to these noble children of God. I do not believe Slavery will go down in blood. Ours is the age of thought. Hearts are stronger than swords. That last fortnight! How sublime its lesson! the Christian one of conscience-of truth. Virginia is weak because each man's heart said amen to John Brown. His words-they are stronger even than his rifles.—These crushed a State. Those have changed the thoughts of millions, and will yet crush Slavery. Men said, ‘Would he had died in arms'-God ordered better, and granted to him and the slave those noble prison hours-that single hour of death, granted him a higher than the soldier's place, that of teacher; the echoes of his rifles have died away in the hills-a million hearts guard his words. God bless this roof-make it bless us. We dare not say bless you, children of this home; you stand nearer to one whose lips God touched, and we rather bend for your blessing. God make us all worthier of him whose dust we lay among these bills he loved. Here he girded himself, and went forth to battle. Fuller success than his heart ever dreamed, God granted him. He sleeps in the blessings of the crushed and the poor, and men believe more firmly in virtue, now that such a man has lived. Standing here, let us thank God for a firmer faith and fuller hope.
Another hymn was then sung, during which the coffin was placed on a table before the door, with the face exposed, so that all could see. It was almost as natural as life-far more so than an ordinary corpse. There was a flush on the face, resulting from the peculiar mode of death, and nothing of the pallor that is usual when life is extinct. 
Mr. Phineas Norton, who acted as the friend of the household on the occasion, invited all who desired to do so to come and take a last look, and then make way for the family. The neighbors went forward as invited, and took their final leave of all that remained of their cherished friend; and then followed the family. It was a touching sight to see those widows, the eldest still in the prime of life, and ‘the younger ones in its opening <illegible> deprived of their natural companions, leaning, as they stood round the coffin, opon the arms of strangers. Such a sight I should not expect to see again if I should live a thousand years 
<c05>
This scene over, the next that followed was the short procession from the house to the grave. First came Mrs. Brown, supported by Wendell Phillips; then the widow of Oliver Brown, leaning on the arm of Mr. Mckim who, in his other hand, held that of the little girl Ellen; next came the widow of Watson Brown, supported by the Rev. Mr. Young, and after that, though whether next in order I cannot now tell, the widow of William Thompson, leaning on the arm of one of the family. Salmon Brown and his sisters followed, with Henry Thompson, and Ruth, his wife, John Brown's eldest daughter; and then Roswell Thompson and his wife, the aged parents of the two young men of that name who were killed at Harper's Ferry. Then followed the friends and neighbors. As the body was lowered into the grave, a gush of grief, apparently beyond control, burst from the family, and Mr. Young stood forth to comfort them. Raising his deep and mellow voice, and quoting the words written to Timothy by Paul when he was brought before Nero the second time, and just before uis death, he said: ‘I have fought a good fight; I have finished my course; I have kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me; and not to me only, but unto all that love his appearing'; which words he followed with the benediction:
’May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the blessing of God our Father, and the Communion of the Holy Spirit, be and abide with us all, now and forever. Amen.'
The words seemed to fall like balm on all who heard them. The sobs were hushed, and sood the family, with the rest, retired from the grave, leaving the remains of the loved one to their last repose.
It was now nearly 3 o'clock. Messrs. Phillips and McKim, and all of us, indeed, were anxions to be on our way home. A long and difficult journey was before us, and as the worst part was to be encountered at the outset, it was important that we should start as long as possible before the setting in of night. The carriages were got ready; a hasty but tearful leave-taking ensued between the family and their friends from a distance, and soon we were all on our way over the mountains. Most of our party stopped at Keene that night, but one or two pushed on to Elizabethtown. On the following evening-which was last evening-Mr. Phillips, by previous engagement, delivered a lecture in the Town Hall at Vergennes. The room could not hold all that desired to hear. I was not present till the discourse was in good part over, but I doubt not some account of it will find its way into print. You may form some idea of its quality when I tell you that a venerable Deacon who came to the hotel where I stopped made the following remark; ‘I have listened,’ said he, ‘to seven thousand sermons in my life, and I heard more of God's eternal truth to-night than was contained in them all.'

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society-donation, $400 00
Francis Jackson, for pledge at New York meeting, 200 00
Mrs. Maria W. Chapman, 100 00
Marius R. Robinson, collections in Western 
New York, 19 62
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY. The undersigned having, at a meeting held in Tremont Temple, on the 19th inst., been appointed a Committee to take charge of such funds as may be tendered for the benefit of JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY, are ready to receive donations for that object, to which they shall be faithfully applied. Contributions may be sent to the Treasurer, or to either of the undersigned in Boston.
S. E. SEWALL, Chairman, 46 Washington street; 
JOHN R. MANLEY, Treasurer, 24 Dock square; 
GEORGE BIGELOW, 23 Essex street; 
JOHN AYRES, 11 Liberty square. 
HUMPHREY JAMESON, 484 Washington st. 
Boston, Nov. 23, 1859.
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY FOR WOMEN.-County Woman’s Rights Conventions, to be addressed by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Lucy N. Colman and others, will be held as follows:-
Pen Yan, Yates Co., Tuesday, Dec. 20.
Lyons. Wayne Co., Tuesday, Dec. 27. 
By Mrs. Tracy Cutler and J. Elizabeth Jones: 
Jamestown, Chatauque Co., Tuesday, Dec. 20. 
Collins Centre, Erie Co., Tuesday, Dec. 27.
Each of the above meetings will be at 2 and 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day named.

THE VIRGINIA TRAGEDY.
An Anti-Slavery Meeting will be held in the Reformed Dutch Church, at EASTON, Washington Co., N. Y., on FRIDAY, Dec. 16.
Sessions at 2 o'clock and 7 o'clock, P. M.
Leonard Gibbs, Esq., and others, will address the meeting.
These are historic times! Let there be a great gathering of the friends of Freedom!
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL COURSE OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
The Third Lecture of this series will be given by Rev. B. F. BOLLES of Melrose, on Sunday evening, Dec. 18, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. 
Admission fee, 5 cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, 
Rec. Sec. Salem Female A. S. Society. 
Salem, Dec. 15.
PLYMOUTH.-The annual Anti-Slavery gathering at Forefathers' Rock will take place on Saturday, Dec. 31st, 1859, and January 1st, 1860.
Meetings will be held in Davis's Hall, Plymouth commencing on Saturday evening, and continuing through the day and evening of Sunday, Jan. 1st.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, CHARLES L. REMOND, SAMUEL MAY, Jr. and other speakers, are expected to be present.
The annual meeting of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society will be held in connection with the above. And all persons are invited to attend.
BOURNE SPOONER, President.
SAMUAL DYER, Sec.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:—
Pepperell, Saturday and Sunday evenings, Dec. 17 and 18. 
Groton, Tuesday evening, Dec. 20.
Leominster, Wednesday, evening, Dec. 21.
Westminster, Thursday Dec. 22.
Garden Centre and S. Garden, Satur’y and Sunday evenings Dec. 24.
THE VIRGINIA TRAGEDY.
MARIUS R. ROBINSON and AARON M. POWELL will address a meeting at GHENT, in the Friends’ Meeting-House, on Sunday afternoon, Dec. 18, at half-past 2 o'clock.
LECTURE BY DR. ROCK.
DR. ROCK will deliver his lecture on Madame de Steal, in Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, Boston, next Monday evening, 19th inst. at half past 7 o'clock. Admission 25 cents.

WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR:
OR, LOW WAGES AND HARD WORK.
THREE Lectures by Mrs. C. H. DALL, as follows:
I. Death or Dishonor.
II. Verify your Credentials. 
III. ‘The Opening of the Gates.'
Forming a thorough examination,-with abundant and interesting, ‘Facts and Figures,'-of the whole question of Woman's labor. 1 vol. 16mo. Paper, 50 cents: cloth, 63 cents. Sent by mail, post paid, on receipt of the price.
Just published, by WALKER, WISE & CO., 245 Washington street, Boston.
Dec 9. 2 wis.

JOHN BROWN.
AN excellent likeness of the ‘Hero of Harper's Ferry,' with his Autograph,-replies to questions propounded to him by Senator Mason and others, at the time of his capture,—and his inimitable address to the Virginia Court when about to receive his sentence of death;-may be had at this office. GREDDING & CO., State street, wholesale agents. 
Price, 15 cents-$10 per hundred.
Dec 16.

The Thinker;
BEING the 5th volume of the ‘GREAT HARMONIA by A. J. Davis, is just published and ready <illegible> delivery. Price One Dollar. Single copies sent by mail, postage free, on receipt of the price. The <illegible> discount on wholesale prices.
Address BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street,
Boston.
Dec. 16 6w
<c06>
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES
IN PRESS:
THE LIFE OF
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
THE
LIBERATOR OF KANSAS,
AND THE
Hero of Harper’s Ferry.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
AN elegant 12 mo. volume of 400 pages. illustratrated, and embellished with a superb
STEEL PORTRAIT
OF THE
GLORIOUS OLD MAN.
This book will be issued before the first of January, 1860, and will be a work of thrilling and fascinating interest. Price, $1.00. A liberal per centage of the
PROFITS 
resulting form its publication will be
Given to the family of Brown.
THOUSANDS OF AGENTS
will be wanted to supply the demand in every town, village and hamlet, throughout the country.
Address, THAYER & ELDRIDGE, Publishers,
Nos. 114 and 116 WASHINGTON STREET,
N25 3w BOSTON, MASS.

Portrait of John Brown.
Will be published, on FRIDAY, DEC. 2d, by
CHARLES H. BRAINARD,
322 WASHINGTON STREET,
A magnificent lithographic portrait of JOHN BROWN, drawn by Thomas M. Johnston, from a photograph taken for T. H. Webb, Esq., and the last picture for which the old hero ever sat.
A liberal portion of the profits will be given to the family of Captain Brown.
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR.
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price.
For sale by Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street; Elliot & White, 322 Washington street; Wm. C. Nell, 21 Cornhill; and by printsellers generally D2 2w

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR SR. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication form the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle Six Bottles for
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liter Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Govt. Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statements, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space have will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALAMNAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSING, Boston. 
BROWN & PRICE, <illegible> 
H. H. HAY, Portland; 
J. N. MORTON & CO., <illegible>, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where 6m May7
J. B. YERRINTON & SON
PRINTERE,
21 Cornhill. Bosrom.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
For the Liberator.
WOE, WOE TO VIRGINIA!
Woe, woe to Virginia! her soil is accurst!
In her skirts the blood of the pure and the just!
I see the dark hearing of land and of sea-
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
The thunders hang red in the wild scowling sky;
The Man of the Age, not in vain shall he die!
The blood of the righteous thy death-doom shall be-
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
Call in your proud armies-make faster your chains-
Still the stain of his blood on your slave soil remains;
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
By every warm drop in the Martyr's true heart;
By the pang your rope gave him are life could depart;
By the low choking breath on the dark gallows tree-
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
By the Spirit abroad, by the still rising surge,-
Dark land of the gallows, the chain and the scourge!
Thy doom the most proud overwhelming shall be-
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
Oh! would'st thou be wise while the tempest delays!
Oh! know'st thou thy day, and would'st turn from thy ways!
How glorious the sound of the tidings would be-
The slaves of Virginia, Virginia shall free! 
But, if hardened, then know ye, though Brown intercedes, 
The justice of God will not pass o'er your deeds;
In tempest and whirlwind the sentence shall be-
Virginia! Virginia! thy slaves shall be free!
'Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, my mind would not be towards this people.'

From the New York Independent.
JOHN BROWN OF HARPER'B FERRY.
Hero that pays our country's pawn!
The soul that felt, and dared to smite!
The man who dies to say that Right
Is better stuff than blood and brawn!
Our words that spun full three years' course
On Freedom failing sun by sun,
In him to molten lightnings run,
And welded thinking into force.
In rough-cast brain this Northern will.
From suffering all its steel had wrought,
Till, striking surer than its thought,
The shock rang sharp from hill to hill.
Ah, sire! our tears are such as roll
On days of Triumph, not of Death;
We bring thee them, and love and faith,-
Our royal way of soul for soul.
We count thy dying so sublime,
Our woman-hands we would not lay
About that brave old heart to stay
Its flowing life, and wrong our time.
Oh, doubt not who of these shall win!
Or who is traitor to th' eleven!
This man in front of open heaven,
Or wrathful ones that swing him in.
Doubt not our world takes heart again;
And hands of brotherhood grow warm,
Starting each other, palm to palm,
With this hot stroke on Southern chain.
Earth feels the time of prophet-song-
When lives from land to land shall say-
And think it praise enough to say-
'We are too just to bide with Wrong.'
Oh, comes a deeper wisdom then,-
And owns that in our golden year,
One fire-anointed soul was dear
To glass God's image forth to men.
Worcester, Nor. 14.
C. P. H.

From Aytoun's Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.
THE EXECUTION OF MOHTROSE.
They brought him to the Watergate,
Hard bound with hempen span,
As though they held a lion there,
And not a fenceless man.
They set him high upon a cart-
The hangman rode below-
They drew his hands behind his back,
And bared his noble brow.
Then as a hound is slipped from leash,
They cheered the Courmon throng,
And blew the note with yell and shout,
And bade him pass along.
It would have made a brave man's heart
Grow sad and sick that day,
To watch the keen malignant eyes
Bent down on that array.
There stood the Whig south county lords,
In balcony and bow;
There sat 'mid gaunt and withered dames,
And their daughters all a-row,
And every open window
Was full as full might be
With black-robed covenanting carles,
That goodly sport to see!
But when he came, though pale and wan,
He looked so great and high,
So noble was his manly front,
So calm his steadfast eye;-
The rabble rout forbore to shout,
And each man held his breath,
For well they knew the hero's soul
Was face to face with death.
And then a mournful shudder
Through all the people crept,
And some that came to scoff at him,
Now turned aside and wept.
But onward-always onward-
In silence and in gloom
The dreary pageant labored,
Till it reached the place of doom.
And then uprose the great Montrose,
In the middle of the room-
'I have sot sought in battle-field
A wreath of such renown,
Nor dared I hope on my dying day
To win the martyr's crown,
'Then is a chamber far away,
Where sleep the good and brave.
But a better place ye have named for me
Than by my father's grave;
For troth and right 'gainst tyrants' might
This hand hath always striven,
And ye raise it up for a witness still
Is the eye of earth and heaven.
Then nail my hand on yonder tower-
Give every town a limb-
And God who made shall gather them;
I go from you to him!
The morning dawned full darkly,
The rain came dashing down,
And the jagged streak of the levin-bolt
Lit up the gloomy town:
The thunder crashed across the heaven,
The thunder hour was come;
Yet aye broke in, with muffled beat,
The 'larum of the drum;
There was madness on the earth below,
And anger in the sky,
And young and old, and rich and poor,
Came forth to see him die.
Ah, God! that ghastly gibbet!
How dismal 'tis to see
The great tall Spectral skeleton
The ladder and the tree!
<c02>
Hark! hark t it is the clash of arms-
The bells begin to toll-
'He is coming! he is coming!'
'God's mercy on his soul!'
One last long peal of thunder-
The clouds ere cleared stray,
And the glorious sun once more looks down
Amidst the dazzling day.
'He is coming! he is coming!'
Like a bridegroom from his room
Came the hero from his prison
To the scaffold and the doom.
There was glory on his forehead,
There was lustre in his eye,
And he never walked to battle
More proudly than to die;
There was color in his visage,
Though the cheeks of all were wan,
And they marvelled as they saw him pass,
That great and goodly man!
He mounted up the scaffold,
And he turned him to the crowd;
But they dared not trust the people,
So he might not speak aloud.
But he looked upon the heavens,
And they were clear and blue,
And in the liquid ether
The eye of God shone through;
Yet a black and murky battlement
Lay resting on the hill,
As though the thunder slept within-
All else was calm and still.
The grim Geneva ministers
With anxious scowl drew near,
As you have seen the ravens flock
Around the dying deer.
He would not deign them word nor sign,
But alone he bent his knee,
And veiled his face for Christ's dear grace,
Beneath the gallows tree.
Then radiant and serene he rose,
And cast his cloak away,
For he had ta'en his latest look
Of earth and sun and day.
A beam of light fell o'er him,
Like a glory round the shriven,
And he climbed the lofty ladder
As it were the path to heaven.
Then came a flash from out the cloud.
And a stunning thunder roll;
And no man dared to look aloft,
Fear was on every soul.
There was another heavy sound,
A hush, and then a groan;
And darkness swept across the sky-
The work of death was done!

THE LIBERATOR.
SPEECH OF J. Q. A. GRIFFIN, ESQ., Of MALDEN,
At the Mooting in Tremont Temple, Dec. 2d, relating to the Execution of John Brown.
Ladies and Gentlemen,-As I was attempting to force my way through the crowd which besets the door, I was endeavoring to think of some topic of the great theme that is before us to-night, upon which I might make, during the brief moment I should address you, a few remarks; and I found it in the remarks of your Chairman. He has suggested to me a theme directly in the line of my business, to wit, the defence of a great scoundrel. (Laughter.) I stand here, in behalf of the sentiment of all civilized people, to remonstrate, in their name, against the comparison of Pontius Pilate with Governor 'Wise. (Great merriment.) My appeal is to history. Although Governor Wise deserves our reprobation, although Pontius Pilate deserves the execration of the Christian world, yet I assert, that in the particular transaction with which the names of both will be connected, Pontius Pilate stands far, far ahead of Governor Wise. (Cheers.) Ton remember that the act for which John Brown has this day gone up to God was committed upon the grounds of the United States. He held possession of an arsenal in the State of Virginia that belonged to the Federal Government; and it is the opinion of lawyers this hour, Democratic lawyers, in this State and at Washington, that Gov. Wise's mob, to wit, the State of Virginia, had no sort of jurisdiction of the offence which he committed. Such is the opinion, fellow-citizens, of that keen and discriminating lawyer-I do not endorse all his opinions, but his legal learning no man will dispute-Caleb Cashing; such is the opinion of leading lawyers of the country, of all shades of political sentiment. Take that fact in your mind, and then contrast Pontius Pilate with Henry A. Wise. You remember that when the Savior of men was brought before Pontius Pilate, Pilate said, ' I have no jurisdiction of this offence; it belongs to Herod, not to me.' When John Brown was brought before Gov. Wise, what did the Governor say? He had no jurisdiction, beyond all question. Did he say, 'Go to Herod'-to wit, Buchanan? (Tumultuous applause and laughter.) No, it would 'have required a man of as much generosity as Pontius Pilate to say that! (Renewed laughter.) No; but you remember his words-'I will try these men first, and their remains Herod shall have,-nothing else,'
Then, in regard to another act, I undertake to say that Pontius Pilate whitens into virtue as compared with Henry A. Wise. Mark me! I undertake to say, Gov. Wise has sanctioned an atrocity, a barbarity, an infamy, beyond what any other executioner in the world's history has done. Did you not read in the telegraphic despatches that he had on exhibition the rope with which he proposed to strangle John Brown? Now, I appeal to history. Look at the Jack Ketches, look at the French scamps and scoundrels, who have deluged Paris in blood, search English history, look into the Italian annals, and do yon find any where such an atrocious act as that? Was it not one of which even Pontius Pilate would have been ashamed? My word for it. Our friend the Chairman ought publicly to apologize to the memory of Pontius Pilate for the comparison. (Loud applause.)
I am obliged to my friend the Chairman for suggesting to me something to say to this audience tonight. 1 heard his remark as I reached the platform; as I came upon it, another thought struck me, and that was this: that, after all, we must not be too harsh upon Virginia. The light is just beginning to stream into that Commonwealth. The sight of this platform suggested that remark to me. Look at it, for a moment, and see if it is not suggestive to us all; see if it must not teach us charity for Virginia and for the public sentiment of that State. Why, Virginia to-day is Massachusetts twenty years ago-that's all. Behind me sits a venerable minister of the Gospel who had a controversy full of acrimony with a Christian church in this city, because he attacked rum and slavery. I mean, the Rev. Mr. Pierpont. ( Loud applause.) Have you forgotten that time? That was Massachusetts a few years ago. Look further along on that platform, and who do you see? A man who, for proclaiming sentiments at that time that did not begin to come up to what your Chairman has expressed this evening, and fell far behind what I have myself expressed since I stood before you, was dragged with a rope about his neck through the streets of Boston, and the Mayor of the city was as powerless to stay the trouble as Gov. Wise is to quell that at Charlestown, Va. Now, if-the Mayor, who, in the city of Boston, twenty years ago, permitted that outrage to be done, and said he could afford no protection, had been Governor of Virginia to-day, and had lived there all his life, he would have hung John Brown-there is no doubt of it. Oh, we must learn charity!
<c03>
But let us also learn this other great lesson from these facts,-that, in common with the rest of the world, the slave States are moving-ahead, not backwards. The old German adage is-
The mills of God grind slowly, bat they grind exceeding small;
Though with patience he stands waiting, with exactness grinds he all.'
Depend upon it, that is true, with reference to this question of slavery. And it is in that view that every man, however much his heart may sink within him in contemplation of the deed that has this day been done by Virginia, must nevertheless welcome it, in a certain sense, as a great step ahead, a monstrous stride in advance, towards the settlement of the question of slavery in America. Beyond all question, that must be the result. And why? Heretofore, more or less restricted, the agitation of this question has been confined to the North and the West. Learned and able men have spoken to Northern ears, and had a hearing; but those learned and able men could get no hearing south of the line which marks the free States. Every body knows that. A reward offered in Georgia for Mr. Garrison's head; men with the marvellous tongue of Mr. Phillips shut out from the Southern States; every where the truth excluded from Southern ears. Now, there are men throughout the South who want light upon this great question of slavery. They have sought it for years; now I think it is coiling pretty fast; and it was well said by your Chairman, that it was the apprehension, not of a Northern invasion, but of domestic troubles, that set the Governor of Virginia dancing over the State, with a troop of ragged militia at his heels, armed with guns with flint locks! That indicates the 'march of improvement' at the South! Flint locks to their guns in the year 1859 of the Christian era! Why, if they want to shoot a Northern fanatic, they cannot get their old guns off, and have to send to the anti-slavery State of Connecticut for a few of their rifles; and the Governor of Virginia is about to impoverish that ancient Commonwealth in buying up Northern muskets, to shoot their own negroes with, I apprehend.
Let me say, that this act of John Brown has done something that has never yet been done in America. It has set the Southern people to thinking after such fashion as they were never before called to exercise their thoughts. Is not that a 'sign of the times'? I saw the other day,-you must have seen it,-an article from the Charleston Mercury, published clear down in South Carolina-a State degraded enough on the slavery question to be the receptacle of the Democratic Convention next year. (Roars of laughter.) That paper calls attention, in very marked language, to what is going on now. It says, in effect, that if we suffer this thing to go on, there will soon be no frontier at all. ' Why,' says the writer, how is it? They are agitating this question in Virginia. Property is unsafe. Missouri is but little better than Massachusetts; they are getting rid of their slaves. What is to be the effect? Why, as these States fall off, we are left exposed, with free territory close adjacent to us; and our property [although, of course, the slaves are a great deal better off in bondage than in freedom!] will take to itself legs, and leave.' That is what the Charleston Mercury expresses, with great distinctness. They hope to find some panacea in the next Democratic Convention; but, beyond that, it would seem, by the telegraphic despatches to-day, that they hope to find a panacea in disunion, and setting up for themselves. You remember with what complacency they say that they are abundantly able to take care of themselves. That, of course, is in view of the late valiant performance of their Virginia friends! (Laughter.) They feel that there is no danger, if they can only get rid of the fanatics of Massachusetts, New York, and the other free States.
Now, I say, in regard to the acts of John Brown,-you may call them misguided, fanatical, crazy, you may stigmatize them by any name yon please,-yet it is notorious that the effect of what he has done has been to kindle this anti-slavery discussion, not only in the cabin of the slave, but in the hovel of the planter as well. (Laughter and applause.) They are turning their attention to the phenomena which Mr. Garrison pointed out to them a great while ago, when they would not listen to him as the Liberator.' But when John Brown came with that musket in his hand, they were compelled, to listen. It loaded at the breech, and that was a phenomenon to Virginians. I am told that the Colonel of their militia threw it aside when he first saw it, and' said, That is broken!' (Great laughter and applause.) I say, when John Brown came with that musket in his hand, and seventeen men behind him, surrounded a city of twenty-five hundred inhabitants, (laughter,) and took it, and held it against Gov. Wise and the United States for almost two days, then they began to reflect, and to say, ' What does all this mean? Here he is. He has stirred up this terrible thing. We have slept with one eye open ever since Nat Turner, in '31; we shall have to sleep with two eyes open now forevermore. (Great merriment.) They said all these things, and they began to reflect, in the vicinity of Charlestown, and all over Virginia, and inquire, 'Is this a profitable institution, after all? Isn't this rather a high price to pay? The stocks of Virginia fallen in the market, because Gov. Wise has spent all her money in buying Yankee rifles!'
Beyond this, their alarm is seen in this view. Notice it, because it is a most significant sign of what this slight emeute in Virginia means. They ordered John Brown to be executed in public. The Judge declared that it was necessary for others ' offending in like kind,' (to use the language of the old indictment) It must be public. All Virginia, of course, and not only Virginia, but the adjacent States, ought to have the moral instruction which that act would carry to their minds. You know some men cannot receive instruction, except through the medium of some blazing sign. You who have heard Mr. Phillips's admirable lecture on Street Life in Europe,' remember with what felicity he paints the fact that all their signs mean something, because the people cannot read. For instance, they will stick up a lion to indicate the name of a tavern. Now, the Virginians thought, and I think they reasoned rightly, that if the man deserved hanging at all, he ought to be hung in public. So the order was made: but when the time came, what did Gov. Wise say? 'Virginians, stay at home, every soul of you! Don't you go near John Brown!' Why? Because he was afraid of a rescue? Did his Proclamation indicate it? If he had any fear of that, the Virginians ought to have been at Charlestown to prevent it. Not that. No; he said, Stay at home and patrol your streets, and take care of your own lives and property!' What did he mean by that? Did he mean that the Abolitionists would be scattered all over Virginia on that day, stealing'? Not quite that. He was afraid of his own cattle-that's all; afraid they would get out of the pasture. He was afraid, in other words, that this torch of anti-slavery, which John Brown lighted on the top of the Blue Ridge, and flashed over the South, would send too much light into the hovels of his own chattels; and that was all he was afraid of.
I repeat, then, that John Brown, in this sense, has done more to quicken the mind of America on the subject of slavery than any other man who has risen in our time. He has got a hearing, and a most abundant hearing. Mr. Phillips said here, a few nights ago, that he had edited the New York Tribune and the Herald for a fortnight. He did better; he has edited all the papers, North and South, for the last six weeks, and will continue to do so until after the Presidential election, and far on. Think of it! They have suffered the poor man to write-and what letters he has written! There are few literary men in this country, who, if their epitaphs were to be selected from words they themselves had written, could furnish so proud a grave-stone as John Brown. (Loud
<c04>
applause.) Take, for instance, the sublime answer he made to Gov.' Wise, when he told him to prepare for death. Is not there the fire of the old Puritan? Is not there evidence of a full appreciation of those who are able and competent to give him instruction upon the great subject of life or death Governor said he, 'you do very well to advise me to prepare for death; but although you have fifteen years, perhaps, to live, longer than I, you have as much need of that hint as I have myself.' Take that other word that he said, which I read last night for the first time-and I do not know how it escaped me until then. He sees death before him. He knows in what cause he dies. In his address to the Court, ho seems to have put (ho knife of discrimination between what he did, and the acts for which he is to be punished; showing the distinction-which the drunken lawyers of Charlestown did not know, or, at least, if they knew, they did not express-knowing, I say, that; 1 distinction, that he was to be hanged for acts which ho did not commit; that ho had neither incited nor instigated slaves to rebellion,-nor committed treason against the State,-nor committed murder,-nor done any of the acts charged against him, but had merely proposed to translate some men from Slavery to freedom,-knowing that, I say, ha writes, to his half brother and says, I have got to die far hat I have done; don't have any regret; and then ha puts in these words-the stout-hearted old_ man-'I think I am worth inconceivably more to hang than for any other purpose.' Does not that indicate a man; thoroughly in earnest, whose motives, at least, and whose integrity of purpose, we must respect, whatever wee may say of his act, however strongly we may condemn it, or, indeed, however justly or however extravagantly we may praise it?-It is not possible that we can withhold from a man of that description, the tribute of our warmest admiration for those qualities which he seems to have possessed.
Now think what he has done I From this day forward, the question of slavery is a question to be discussed. every where in America. Not simply upon this platform, by 'fanatics' like us, but every where; by press and lips, this question rises for discussion; and it cannot be abated or put down by any manner of means.
Fellow-citizens, I have spoken altogether beyond the time allotted to me, or which I intended to take. I came here; with great alacrity, because I think that, whatever view we may entertain of John Brown's acts, the effect of this execution stands out so prominently, and attracts so much attention, that it is well for the people to be convened to consider it. It is well that a platform like this shall be erected, where all shades of opinion may be expressed concerning it, and that candid ladies and gentlemen, like those here to night, should listen to these different sentiments, as they fall from the lips of their fellow-citizens. I should not hesitate to utter, before such an assembly as this, any sentiments, however obnoxious they might be, because I know there is candor enough in such a meeting to listen to the expression, of sentiments that are honestly entertained, whatever they may be. And herein we see the difference betwixt the state of public opinion in Massachusetts to-day, and what we find to be the state of public opinion in Virginia, where inoffensive men, like Mr. Hoyt, who go on a peaceful, proper errand to Virginia, mild women, like Mrs. Spring, who merely go on a mission of mercy to the doomed man, are excluded as dangerous people to the Commonwealth of Virginia! I say again, and with this sentiment I shall conclude, that the act of John Brown is calculated to educate the public mind and conscience on the question of slavery in America; and, as such, it ought to be observed, as it is here to-night, by the free and fall and spontaneous expression of the sentiments of the people upon it. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF HON. R. P. DAVIS.
Hon. R. P. Davis, of the Senate, was then introduced, the President stating that he presumed he had not come prepared to speak on the occasion, but he had consented to say a few words. Mr. Davis spoke as follows;-
As you have correctly: stated, Mr. President, I have not prepared words to address to this audience. But, standing before you, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot do less than express my cordial and hearty sympathy with the sentiment of this vast assembly. What is that sentiment? What is it that has called us together, in this multitudinous crowd, composed of all classes of the population of Massachusetts,-the most conservative and the most ultra,-meeting together with; one common purpose? As I understand it, it is this: it is a sentiment of almost irrepressible honor, love and admiration for the character, for the virtues, and, in allusion to the event which has just occurred, for the memory of the hero and martyr Brown. (Loud applause.) It is not necessary that we should applaud the precise nature of the act which he committed, and for which he has suffered, and for which he was willing to suffer. 'For one, I have hoped, and still hope, for the peaceful solution of this solemn and awful problem. But still, when I remember that nearly every important political revolution has been accompanied by outbreaks of this description; that there is, to speak, a noble frenzy in human nature, which, under certain circumstances, we can hardly avoid applauding; when I consider the cause for which he suffered,1 and for which he gladly died; when I consider that human rights are above human laws; when I consider that the system of slavery, as it exists in our midst, is in direct violation of the fundamental rights of man,-of what the Declaration of Independence, our organic law, declares to be the inalienable rights of man'; when I consider that that system is wholly wrong, wholly an outrage, breeding nothing but evil, utterly without excuse, and. that every law which restrains it is, like itself, infamous, monstrous, inhuman and criminal to the last degree; and when I recollect that that brave old man; having, suffered. every outrage in his own person and that of his family, animated by that noble devotion to freedom which has burned in the breasts of the heroes and martyrs of every age, took the Declaration of Independence, which asserts the inalienable rights of man, in one hand, and the Golden Rule in the other, and struck a blow, a fatal blow, at that infamous system, I say, I cannot and will hot, here or elsewhere, condemn the act. (Loud cheers.) No, I will let History take care of it.
What has History done in similar cases? Why, it has canonized the memory of men. simply for their connection with acts done in behalf of liberty, although the motives of those men were infinitely inferior to the motives of Brown. When I recollect, that Magna Charta was wrung from the reluctant hands Of a despotic and terrified Plantagenet by barbarous Barons, and for selfish purposes, I do not the less recollect that it is the foundation of that barrier which ages of devotion to personal liberty have reared alike around the English subject end the American citizen. When; I recollect that the Habeas Corpus writ was a device of the infamous Shaftesbury, to shield, himself from the penalty of his complicity with one of the most discreditable acts in English history, I also recollect that for two hundred years, it has spread-its ample and inviolable shield over millions of the human race. When I recollect that the English Revolution was a compact between William of Orange and the English people, and that, so far as he was concerned, it was of such a nature, as to reflect dishonor, upon his character; when I recollect that he dethroned and drove into miserable and perpetual exile his own father-in-law, and added the meanness of hypocrisy to the crime of filial ingratitude and perfidy, which has stained the character and invalidated the results of that greatest event in the golden annals of the mother land-an event that established upon an immutable bests the rights and lib-
<c05>
erties of the English race, which retrenched the Royal prerogative and defined and amplified the powers of Parliament, which, in a word, founded a constitutional monarchy upon the jure divine of kings;-when I recollect all this, I cannot and I will not believe otherwise than that the act of Brown will hereafter be mentioned with admiration, and will be considered, perhaps, the first and most important of that series of acts, peaceful in their character, which shall extirpate this great crime from our midst. I do believe that this act of Brown, by the mortal terror which it has struck to every heart in Virginia, by the panic which pervades the South, by the intensity of the feeling of abhorrence toward the acts which have culminated in his execution, and which seem to be necessary for the support of that system, will hasten its downfall, and hasten it in a peaceful manner, also. And believing this, I also believe that long, long after the system shall have become extinct, his name will live as a historic name, as one of our admirable historic names, upon the historian's page, in legendary tale, and oven in the glowing words of poetry. I was reminded of this by having a book put into my hands as I entered the hall, a passage from which I will read. It describes an event which occurred two hundred years ago, the precise-parallel of the event which took place in Virginia to-day. I refer to the execution of Montrose. I will read an extract, which serves to show how poets, how mankind, deal with deeds like Brown's.
[Mr. Davis then read very effectively the latter portion of Aytoun's Lay on the Execution of Montrose, commencing, 

'He is coming!-he is coming!' &c
It elicited the loudest applause. The entire piece is so marvellously applicable to the case of John Brown that we have placed it in our poetical department.]-Ed. Lib.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON was the next speaker., He was received with a perfect tempest of applause, which broke forth spontaneously again and again, making the vast hall echo with the enthusiastic demonstration. [For Mr. G's speech, see second page.]

REMARKS OF REV. JOHN PIERPONT.
My Friends,-Yon perceive I did not come prepared to speak to you, but it must be a very tight pinch that I should be put into where, on such an occasion, I refused to say any thing at all. I shall address you very briefly, for two reasons: one is, that I have very little time to give you, and the other, that I have very little to say. When men feel strongly, they are less prepared to express their feelings than when they are calm and considerate.
I hope that the occasion which has brought us to­gether may impress upon our minds one important and practical lesson-a lesson which some of our anti­slavery friends have been preaching for the last thirty years-that, so long as the eternal God holds his throne, and maintains the principles of his govern­ment, it will be impossible in any part of his dominions to make slavery and freedom live together upon the same ground. (Applause.) There is an antagonism between them that can never be reconciled; they cannot coalesce under the same government. Look back five years ago only, not twenty or twenty five, when you found the chief magistrate of this city, containing 150,000 inhabitants, where more anti-slavery speeches had been made than in any other city on the globe, and the chief magistrate of the State, with the civil and military strength of the State, together with the military strength of the United States, all concentrated upon one single object,-the carrying off of one poor solitary Christian man from Boston into perpetual slavery. That was done here in Boston, and it was worth as much as a man's welfare was worth to have him utter a word against it! Let us not pour too much contempt and opprobrium upon Richmond, or any part of Virginia! The good work is going on; let us be patient. It has been said by one reformer, I know God is not in a hurry, but I am.' (Laughter.) It is a good thing to shake off the yoke of slavery from four millions of people. Four millions of men are now bending under it, and twenty millions holding it on. John Brown exercises more moral power over these United States than Henry A. Wise, with all the military force of the State, and all the military force of the United States, could exercise or resist.
I was yesterday thinking of this matter, as I sat in my library, and I wrote the thoughts that passed through my mind in half a dozen lines. Will you excuse me if I give them as the close of the remarks which I have been called upon to make? [Many voices-'Yes' 'Read them.']
Brown, though in prison and in chains to-day,
Holds the whole South half speechless with dismay;
To-morrow, as in blood his sun goes down,
'Twill breathe more free, no longer fearing Brown;
Yet, o'er it, white-winged Peace can never brood,
Stained as it will be with th' old Hero's blood.
For, though the Man be numbered with the dead,
Not so the Cause for which the martyr bled!
Peace folds her wings to-day upon his breast,
To-morrow they will bear him to his rest.

REMARKS OF REV. J. F. CLARKE.
I desire to say but a single word, at this late hour, and that is in regard to the character of John Brown. We are here to-night because we respect his character; and all over the land to-day, there has been a cloud of sadness upon the minds of the people. Why? Because a man went to Virginia with the purpose of freeing some slaves, and was caught and hung? If he had been a reckless man, should we have cared any thing, about it? It is because we honor him, it is because he was worthy to be honored, that we care.
There are wicked and shameful prints in this city which take this opportunity, at the moment that this hero has given his life, not-for any privileged order, but for a debased order, to throw filth and falsehood upon that honored name. We are told that he committed murders in Kansas. I tell you it is false. If we have any reason for knowing any thing to be true, we know that "that is not true. We have a letter from a brother of John Brown-a letter which has been published in a Cleveland paper-a letter which is as calm and earnest and simple as any expression can be-to convince us that the assertion that John Brown had any thing to do with those murders in cold blood on the Pottowottomic is false. He says that Brown himself, and his two sons, told him with their own lips, a short time before, that they had nothing to do with it, that they were not there, and that they knew nothing about it; and I believe what John Brown says, against what the editor of the Herald of Freedom, an apostate to liberty, undertakes to say.
On that ground, then, let us not believe these slanders against the memory of that great, good man. They will not last. It is not necessary to try to refute them. History takes care of her martyrs; she will take can of him. What we have to do is to unite and consecrate ourselves with new devotion of heart, to do battle against this gigantic evil; and if we do that, John Brown, ascended up on high, will feel that he has not died in vain. (Applause.)
GEROGE H. HOYT, Esq., the counsel for Brown, was then loudly called for, and came-to the platform. He said he should not detain the audience at that late hour, but he should have something to say at a future time in reference to the trial of John Brown, when he should be glad to see the audience then before him.
A motion was made, and carried unanimously, that Mr. Hoyt be invited to speak at the Temple, at such time as might salt his convenience.
After staging the doxology, by the vast assembly, 'From all that dwell below the skies,' &c the meeting adjourned.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative
'We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived, benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good result, to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis,'
St. Louis Presbyteriam.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE! given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and in perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORES is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.'
N. Y. Etangelist.
'All are compelled to acknowledge Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N.Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER HAS taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
'Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S' Buffalo Christian Advocate.
'Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effect­ual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S Hair Restorer will do this.' U.S Journal.
'In these times when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RERSTORE. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair.' Its properties are perfectly <illegible>less. it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
'Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any hereto fore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.'
Philadelphia Mercury.
'There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated men appropriately the ' World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
'We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S World's Hair Restorer' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.'
<illegible> Register.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The moat successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.'
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. ' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the ease with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, white we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.'
Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring. invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which hare been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, <illegible> powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest <illegible>. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. are correct.'
Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk <illegible>
Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.
Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Loader.
we might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United states.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the <illegible> wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S, Cuba, or
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET. N.Y
where address all letters and inquires.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. <illegible> are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or sent to Depot for Circulars. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
