THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line;
less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 30 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 24, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1694.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE NEW YORK RIOTS.
We charge it plainly upon the radical journals of this city that they, and chiefly they, have educated the people of New York to the pitch of passion and the extremes of desperate feeling which have gleamed out so luridly and so terribly upon us in these last sad days.
We have warned these people again and again of the danger with which they were madly trifling. We have called upon them. If not for the sake of <illegible> and truth and common justice, if not for the sake at <illegible> of their own persons and property, upon which, in the last resort, the tempest they were striving every nerve to evoke must assuredly and over-<illegible> descend, to join with us in meeting this great ordeal of the nation as Americans and patriots. We have appealed to them to reflect that a people's war can only be successfully waged in obedience to a people's will.
We have set it before them in every possible light that the hour must come when men born to freedom and fit to maintain it would weary of being insulted by their equals for the exercise of the simplest rights of freemen of speech and thought. When educated men are called "traitors," and "enemies of their country," and "Copperheads," because they think for themselves, and say what they think, their natural weapon against assaults at once so silly and so vile is contempt for the assailants. But when these terms are hurled for months on months against great masses of the people, all history bids us expect that, sooner or later, these masses will rise and stamp the insults out in the heart's blood of the insulters.
What is that differences the obedient soldier and the insensate mob? Let the tenant of the White House answer. The poor day-laborer, whose fellow two years ago shouldered a musket, and who has fought in two years of battles, has as great an interest in the government as he. Nothing in his character, his passions, or his interests could or should have justified us in counting less on the strength of his right arm, or the sincerity of his attachment to the government, than on those of his fellow. Yet yesterday a mob spontaneously uprising in the draft-districts, though without organization or leaders, ruled New York, and nothing but the rain from the <illegible>heavens, which, during the midnight hours, drove men to their homes and quenched the fires which this mob had lighted, saved it, if indeed we are saved, from growing into organized and controlled lawlessness.
Will the insensate men at Washington now at length listen to our voice? Will they now give ear to our warningwarnings and adjurations? Will they now believe that Definance of Law in the rulers breeds Defiance of Law in the people? Does the doctrine proclaimed from the Capitol, that in war laws are silent, please them put in practice in the streets of New York? Will they continue to stop their ears and shut their eyes to the voice and will of a loyal people, which for three long years has told them by every act and every word that this war must be nothing but a war for the Union and the Constitution?
Does Mr. Lincoln now perceive what alienation he has put between himself and the men who three years ago thundered out with one voice in Union square—"The Union, it must and shall be preserved"? These are the very men whom his <illegible> his wanton exercise of arbitrary power, his stretches of ungranted authority have transformed into a mob. At the beginning, hundreds of thousands of men went willingly to risk their lives at his and the nation's call. Was it impossible for him so to have rested upon the nation's heart, so to have obeyed the nation's will, that, if need were, still other hundreds of thousands would have gone forth willingly at his bidding? Who believes it? It was not impossible. What have he and his infatuated party done instead? They have framed a Conscription Act, never tolerable to a free people, unconstitutional beyond any manner of doubt in its provisions if not in its very nature, offensive and most unwise in the method of its enforcement, discriminating between rich and poor, unfair, onerous, and most oppressive here where the attrition of discontent was at its height. Does any man wonder that poor men refuse to be forced into a war mismanaged almost into hopelessness, perverted almost into partisanship? Did the President and his cabinet imagine that their lawlessness could conquer, or their folly seduce, a free people?
We have one word to say to those who resist and those who countenance resistance to the draft, and we appeal, as having a right to appeal, in that what injustice has been done you, we have never failed to <illegible> and protest against, when protests were proscribed and resistance was a crime. Stop where <illegible> are. Let this lawlessness cease. Mobs must scrap or be put down. No government can tolerate them. None should tolerate them. Anarchy is no refuge from injustice or wrong.
Your resistance is ill-timed and unlawful. The courts still exist in the State of New York. Law and the protection of law is measured out to the hamblest citizen. The Governor of the State will <illegible>no law to be disobeyed, whether by mobs or <illegible> rulers. The first man whom the conscription calls unwillingly from his home has it in his power to test the constitutionality of the law by which he is selected, and the decision of the courts will be sustained in the Empire State against any and every power which attempts to override them.-New York World.
As events succeed each other, the policy of the Administration and its organs begins to be developed. All over the North separated attempts have, of late, been made to provoke and exasperate the people, in order to created a pretext for pronouncing martial law. It seems to have been determined that a military power shall be established over the Demoeratie States, to overawe all opposition to the Emancipation project. The leaders of the movement are aware that when the North shall be divided into military departments, and the Burnsides, the Scbencks and Hascalls enthroned among bayonets and cannon in our great cities, the coup d’elat will have been accomplished, and the next general election will be simply a preliminary to the inauguration of pespotic power. No wonder that the Evening Post is so much in love with saltpetre, and talks so grandly of cannister and grape.
We summon the facts and their record to prove that the Black Republican party, its ministers and organs, are alone responsible for whatever misfortune and disgrace have fallen upon our city; and if they <illegible> upon extreme extreme and sanguinary measures, they will be responsible for yet more trouble. The duty of every patriotic citizen is now to conciliate, and not to inflame and exasperate by unnecessary severity. We counseled conciliation two years ago in reference to the South. We were unheeded, and the result is exhaustion and convulsion.—New York News.
<c02>
Selections.
THE CONSCRIPTION.
The "Act for enrolling and calling out the national forces" was framed to be more efficient for war purposes than were the existing militia laws, less burdensome upon the treasury and the people, and more humane to the poor, who have the aged, and infirm and helpless dependent upon their labor for support. These objects, sanctioned by patriotism, economy, justice, and humanity, have been attained as nearly as the unequal lot of mankind will permit. This law, enthusiastically welcomed by the armies of the Republic, referred to by other nations as the highest evidence of the determined purposes of the United States Government, dreaded by armed traitors, and denounced by rebel sympathizers at the North, bears in every section and in every line evidence of the patriotism, justice, and humanity of Congress.
Contrast the provisions of this denounced act with the provisions of the existing militia laws of the United States, and of the militia laws of the several States. By the existing militia laws of the United States, the President is authorized to call into the service of the National Government the militia of the several States. By these, laws, and by the laws of the States, certain classes of persons are excepted and exempted from military duty—from being drafted into the service of the United States. These exempts are not the poor, who have widowed mothers, aged and infirm parents, motherless infant children, or fatherless and motherless young brothers and sisters dependent on their labor for support. No. not these! Neither the national laws nor the laws of any State in the Union exempt the poor, who have the aged, the infirm, the helpless dependent upon them. At the call of the Government under these laws, they must leave widowed mothers, aged and infirm parents, fatherless and motherless sisters and brothers, and motherless infant children who are dependent on their daily toil for support, and be hastened away to the camp and the battle-field.
Who, then, are exempted by the existing militia laws of the United States, and of the several States of the Union? Not the poor, the dependent sons of toil, but the most fortunate and favored of the people—members of Congress, custom-house officers and clerks, postmasters and clerks, (a host in themselves, whose support comes out of the money of the nation.) professors and students in colleges, and ministers of the gospel, judicial officers and other officials, Quakers. Shakers, and persons who may profess conscientious scruples against bearing arms, members of engine companies, hook and ladder companies, or persons otherwise connected with the fire department. The Conscription Act, on the other hand, exempts, in addition to such as are physically or mentally unfit for military duty—First, the Vice-President of the United States, the Judges of the United States Courts, the heads only of the executive departments of the National Government, and the Governors of the several States.
Second. THE ONLY SON LIABLE TO MILITARY DUTY OF A WIDOW DEPENDENT ON HIS LABOR FOR SUPPORT.
Third. THE ONLY SON OF AGED OR INFIRM PARENTS, OR PARENTS DEPENDENT ON HIS LABOR FOR SUPPORT.
Fourth. WHERE THERE ARE TWO OR MORE SONS OF AGED OR INFIRM PARENTS SUBJECT TO DRAFT, THE FATHER, OR IF HE BE DEAD, THE MOTHER, MAY ELECT WHICH SON SHALL BE EXEMPT.
Fifth. THE ONLY BROTHER OF CHILDREN NOT TWELVE YEARS OLD, HAVING NEITHER FATHER NOR MOTHER, AND DEPENDENT UPON HIS LABOR FOR SUPPORT.
Sixth. THE FATHER OF MOTHERLESS CHILDREN UNDER TWELVE YEARS OF AGE, WHO ARE DEPENDENT UPON HIS LABOR FOR SUPPORT.
Seventh. WHERE THERE ARE A FATHER AND SONS IN THE SAME FAMILY AND HOUSEHOLD, AND TWO OF THEM ARE IN THE MILITARY SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES AS NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS, MUSICIANS, OR PRIVATES. THE RESIDUE OF THE FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD, NOT EXCEEDING TWO, SHALL BE EXEMPT.
Eighth. Young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty are exempt, for the reason that experience proves- that soldiers under twenty years of age cannot sustain the burdens of camp life as well as men between the ages of twenty and thirty-five.
These exemptions of the Conscription Act (so called) are in favor of those upon whose daily toil the aged, infirm, and helpless rely. Is it, as has been charged upon it, making "infamous distinctions between the rich and the poor,” "to EXEMPT THE ONLY SONS OF POOR WIDOWS, and to compel members of Congress to fight, procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? to EXEMPT THE ONLY SONS OF AGED OR INFIRM PARENTS DEPENDENT ON THEM FOR BREAD, and compel the whole army of custom-house officers, postmasters, and Government clerks to fight, procure, or pay for substitutes? to EXEMPT THE ONLY BROTHERS OF FATHERLESS AND MOTHERLESS LITTLE. BROTHERS AND SISTERS DEPENDENT UPON THEIR DAILY TOIL FOR SUPPORT? to EXEMPT THE FATHERS OF MOTHERLESS INFANT CHILDREN DEPENDENT UPON THESE FATHERS DAILY TOIL FOR SUSTENANCE, and compel State judges, justices of the peace, clergymen, and college professors to fight, procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? Shame on the men who misrepresent the beneficent provisions of an act passed to uphold the cause of our imperilled country!
The 13th section of the act in question provides that any person drafted and notified to appear at the rendezvous may, on or before the day fixed for his appearance, furnish an acceptable substitute to take his place in the draft; or he may pay to such person as the Secretary of War may authorize to receive it, such sum, not exceeding $300, as the Secretary may determine, for the procuration of such substitute, which sum shall be fixed at a uniform rate by a general order made at the time of ordering a draft for any State or Territory. Any person may furnish an acceptable substitute to take his place in the draft at any price for which he can procure one. Every drafted man is at liberty to furnish a substitute at such rate as he may agree to pay the substitute: or any drafted man may pay such sum, not exceeding $300, as the Secretary of War may determine, to procure a substitute.
The sum to be fixed by the Secretary is not to exceed $300. It may be less, it cannot be more. This provision was put into the law for the sole and single purpose of KEEPING DOWN THE PRICE OF SUBSTITUTES, so that men of very moderate means, and poor men, could more readily obtain substitutes. It enables the Secretary to fix the sum which will be the price of substitutes. Without this provision, it was believed that the price for substitutes would go up at once to $1000, or $2000, so that none but rich men could obtain them. If any drafted man can obtain a substitute for a sum less than that fixed by the Secretary be is at liberty to do so.
<c03>
This authority conferred upon the Secretary to fix any sum less than $300 was purposely given to check speculations, to keep down the price of substitutes, and it must inevitably do so.
Partisan malignity, in its blindness and madness, would pervert a measure framed to protect the very interests of those who most need protection into a distinction in favor of the rich and against the poor. 
THIS ACT FOR ENROLLING AND CALLING OUT THE NATIONAL FORCES GIVES ASSURANCE TO THE WORLD THAT IT IS THE UNALTERABLE PURPOSE OF THE NATION TO CRUSH OUT THIS WICKED REBELLION. Denunciations of its provisions can only fire the heart and nerve the arms of traitors, thus putting in peril the holy cause of our country, and the precious blood of its heroic defenders; and by reviving the waning hopes of the rebellion, will render more absolutely necessary the putting into execution the draft provided by the act. The only way in which it can be. averted is by promptly arming the willing hands of loyal men in the rebel States, and by immediately yielding a united and enthusiastic support to the Government, thus speedily and thoroughly crushing the hopes, and effectually baffling the efforts of the rebels.

SUSPENDING THE HABEAS CORPUS.
We hear a great deal from the opposition press about the use of "despotic power" by the President or military officers in suspending the writ of habeas corpus, all such suspensions by these authorities being declared to be "unconstitutional," and an unwarranted use of "arbitrary power." Now, all these charges come to naught before the fact that Congress passed an act at the last session, authorizing the President to suspend the writ. The Constitution provides that the writ may be suspended "when in case of rebellion or insurrection the public safety may require it." The power to decide when safety does require it rests, say the Democrats, in Congress, and not in the President. Very well: Congress has decided that now is a proper time for that suspension, it being a time of "rebellion or invasion," and has delegated the President to suspend it, as the executive of Congress, when he sees fit. The acts of the Executive are therefore the acts of Congress. 
The "Act relating to habeas corpus and regulating Judicial Proceedings in Certain Cases," was approved March 3d, 1863. The first section of the act is in the following words:
"That, during the present rebellion, the President of the United States, whenever, in his judgment, the public, safety may require it, is authorized to suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus in any case throughout the United States, or any part thereof. And whenever and wherever the said privilege shall be suspended, as aforesaid, no military or other officer shall be compelled, in answer to any writ of habeas corpus, to return the body of any person or persons detained by him by authority of the President; but upon the certificate, under oath, of the officer having charge of any one so detained by him as a prisoner under authority of the President, further proceedings under the writ of habeas corpus shall be suspended by the Judge or Court having issued the said writ, so long as said suspension by the President shall remain in force, and said rebellion continue.”
"Section four of the same act provides that "any order of the President or under his authority, made at any time during the existence of this rebellion, shall be a defence in all courts to any action in prosecution, civil or criminal, pending or to be commenced, for any search, seizure, arrest orimprisonment made, done or committed, or acts omitted or to be done, under and by virtue of such order, or under color of any law of Congress, and such defence may be by special plea, or under the general issue." No plainer language than this could be employed to grant to the President or military authorities acting under his orders, the right to suspend the writ of habeas corpus “when the public safety requires it." The opposers of the Administration must deny the Constitution, if they deny this right.—Cleveland Leader.

PLEASANT ENTERTAINMENT.
We think it must be gratifying to the Northern sympathizers with the rebels and traitors to have a glimpse, occasionally, of the pleasant entertainment to which they are invited, and also to know that their actions and their language towards their Government are such as to give their "Southern brethren" the fullest assurance that such an entertainment will be most acceptable.
The Chattanooga Rebel, one of the most influential of the rebel journals, in an article on the conduct of the war, says:—
"We can arm and equip fifty thousand of veterans, who never fled from the face of an enemy, and can move unhurt, and almost unchallenged, from Cincinnati to Boston. They can lay in ashes the richest and most populous of the Northern cities, leaving behind them a belt as broad and burning as the Ecliptic. They can run a burning ploughshare over the hot-beds of puling fanaticism, from which sprang the Ate turned loose on the South.”
"This is certainly a graphic picture of the entertainment "our Southern brethren" most magnanimously propose for us, and it is promising to do a great deal with only "fifty thousand veterans;" and we might think the promise was made without due consideration of the undertaking, if the same editor did not enlighten us upon the modus operandi. But he shows that, if his information has been correct, the undertaking is not so chimerical as it appears at first, glance.
In the next paragraph to that above quoted, the Rebel editor continues:-
"We believe firmly, that myriads at the North are prepared to take refuge in our rank from the storm of despotismthat is darkening around them.”
How is it that this rebel and traitor editor comes to “believe firmly,” that “ myriads at the North” are prepared to join the rebel orgies of destruction, and lay “ "in ashes the richest and most populous of Nothern cities”? It is true, the editor, when he wrote that, was fresh from his interview with Vallandigham, who had undoubtedly informed him that "myriads in the North were prepared to take refuge" in the rebel ranks from "the storm of despotism," from which Vallandigham himself had so fortunately escaped; but that would not have so fully convinced him. It was necessary that he should have read such Northern papers as the Chicago Times, Milwaukee News, New York World, &c., after which he could not fail of being firmly convinced.
Is it possible that the majority of the Democratic party of the North is prepared to endorse this representation of its treasonable intentions? Are loyal Democrats willing that the representations of this Rebel editor should be taken as truthful?? There is no doubt but that the perusal of the editorials of many of the papers that are styled Democratic would warrant such a conclusion as that drawn by the Chattanooga Rebel. The speeches also of such demagogues as Vallandigham, Fernando Wood, Gen. Singleton, Pugh, &c., would justify the same conclusion; but we do not believe the Democratic party is prepared to join the rebel army in a raid
<c04>
for laying in ashes "the richest and most populous, of the Northern cities" from Cincinnati to Boston. If they are not, they should at once repudiate the representations of their leaders. They can easily see that the belief in these representations is giving the rebels great encouragement to hold out in their rebellion against the Government. It is the "myriads at the North," that they are sedulously taught to believe would "take refuge in their ranks from the storm of despotism," (which simply means the Federal Government,) that add to their strength. and hope, and urge them to persevere in their wicked and causeless rebellion. They are taught this, and this, aided and strengthened by those editors and denagogues who are writing and spouting about the demise of freedom of the press, and the curtailment of the right of free speech.
Forewarned is to be forearmed. We may yet have occasion to thank this Rebel editor for his out spolen braggadocio.—Kenosha Telegraph.

EX-PRESIDENT PIERCE.
Next to old Mr. Buchanan, the guilt and blood of the existing wicked rebellion may justly be charged in largest proportion upon Franklin Pierce. Under his administration, the incipient measures for this awful civil war were taken with his approval, and carried into active operation by his official power. The national tranquillity was disturbed and fierce sectional hostilities incited by the repeal of the time-honored Missouri Compromise under Pierce's administration, and with the aid of arbitrary Executive influence. This precipitated the Kansas contest, with its invasion of personal rights, its murderous atrocities, and the first armed collision between the North and South. From this Pandora's box, opened upon the land by Franklin Pierce, we may easily trace the origin of all our national woes. Not content with the perpetration of the original wrong in the repeal of the Missouri Compromise—as the Commander-in-chief of the army of the United States, Mr. Pierce made war upon the free people of Kansas, and attempted by armed force to reduce them to subjection to the edicts of an infamous "black code" that visited the penalties of five years' imprisonment upon any man that dared to express an opinion against slavery in Kansas, and death for helping a fugitive to escape from his declared master. In every possible way, Mr. Pierce used the power of his administration to sanction and uphold frauds upon the ballot-box, and to "crush out" the opinions of the majority who had deliberately determined, according to the law itself, that Kansas should be free, just as the repealed Missouri Compromise had pledged the honor of the nation.
This was really the beginning of the rebellion. But in the contest, the people finally triumphed, and Kansas was made a free State. Yet, blood had been spilled in a sectional war inaugurated by Franklin Pierce. Enmities have been excited that could not be pacified. Vanquished in their efforts to subdue a free people, supported, too, by the exercise of unconstitutional powers by the national authorities, Southern statesmen then determined to avail themselves of the first opportunity promising success, to rebel against the Union itself, and destroy it. They used old Mr. Buchanan as an agent to strengthen them for the work. They secured under his administration possession of most of the war material of the Government. It was an incessant plotting of treason during the four years of his administration. They managed to divide the Democratic party, and thus secure the triumph of the Republican party, that a pretext might be furnished for the rebellion. And before the close of Mr. Buchanan's term, they commenced the war, and not a thing was done by Buchanan to repel or defeat them. And so the terrible civil war was inaugurated.
But, notwithstanding these palpable truths of history, the guilty Franklin Pierce had the audacity to stand up before a partisan audience at Concord, N. H., on the 4th of July, and make the assertion:
"Do we not all know that the cause of our calamities is the vicious intermeddling of too many of the citizens of the Northern States with the constitutional rights of the Southern States, cooperating with the discontents of the people of these States? Do we not know that the disregard of the Constitution, and of the security it affords to the rights of States and of individuals, has been the cause of the calamity which our country is called to undergo?"
Here this man directly charges the guilt of the rebellion upon the people of the North, when his own record as Chief Magistrate proves that, at the dictation of Southern nullifiers, he put in operation the agencies of the war with his own guilty, blood-stained hands. A bold, outspoken rebel is certainly more honorable than a sneaking, libellous traitor.
This same Pierce declared in his speech, that we could never succeed "by arms" in maintaining the Union, and conquering an honorable peace. At the very time he was speaking, victory was rewarding the valor of our troops upon the bloody field of Gettysburg, and Pemberton was surrendering the rebel stronghold of Vicksburg with its immense armament and 20,000 prisoners to the heroic Grant and his triumphant army.
Pierce went out of office as did Buchanan, despised by his own party, and reprobated by an outraged people. The Democratic National Convention snuffed him out without as much as giving him the poor benefit of a formal compliment. No wonder he is now the maligner of a loyal people, and a sympathiser with treason!—Troy Daily Times.

THE PEACE PARTY.
THE PEACE PARTY at the North is distinguished from almost every other party that ever existed, by the impossibility of giving the least plausibility to its pretexts. Its real disposition, principles and purposes are clearly seen through the thin varnish of Constitutionalism most blunderingly spread over them. Its notion of honorable compromise is the surrender of the Government into the hands of the rebels; its idea of "moral force" contemplates a possible armed combat at the ballot-boxes of the North; its professions of peace cover a design to call the slaveholders back into power, and thus confide to their keeping the immense military and naval resources created to put down their rebellion. Every statement it makes regarding the disposition of the Southern rebels is contemptuously discredited by the insurgents in whose interest it parades its ridiculous falsehoods, and whom it passionately aims to serve. While in the North it labors under the imputation of treason, it is, in the South, most heartily scorned for its sycophancy. Indeed, it finds itself incapable of earning the respect and confidence even of those armed enemies of the country for whom it is ready to sacrifice patriotism and honor.
The Richmond Enquirer gives as a more accurate conception of the kind of peace which the rebels will accept. The absurd rumors of our overthrow at Gettysburg were received by that journal as unquestionably true, and were the occasion of a burst of triumphant malice which will doubtless surprise those who honestly desire to propitiate our "South-
<c05>
ern brethren." The only plenipotentiary the Enquirer is disposed to clothe with adequate powers is "the illustrious" General Lee; the only peace it will accept is one conquered on Northern territory, after the plunder of Northern cities. It may be well for all our people to know what they may expect from this enemy, who, we are assured, so desires to be "let alone," and who can only be tempted back into the Union by Franklin Pierce's panacea of "moral power." We therefore give the following specimen of the moderation of the Richmond philanthropist:
"Gen. Lee's magnificent victory at Gettysburg has, doubtless, cost us very dear, as many of us will know too well when the sad details come in. At present we have only the great and glorious result—the greatest army of the Yankee nation swept away, trampled under foot, and all but annihilated upon its own soil —the best part of Pennsylvania laid under contribution to sustain our army, and, in some small measure, make good our heavy losses; the second city on the continent open to our armies, and already reckoning up the number of millions it must pay to ransom it from pillage and conflagration; our own city of Baltimore waiting its deliverance with a passionate but, secret joy; and Washington, that fou! den of thieves, expecting the righteous vengeance of Heaven for the hideous crimes that have been done within its walls. In Philadelphia, how the Quakers quake this day! In Washington, how the whole brood of Lincoln and his rascal ministers turn pale—how their knees smite together, as they hear from afar off the roar of their grand army of the Potomac rolled back in bloody rout and dismay, and see flashing through their "guilty dreams the avenging bayonets of those they dared to call rebels!"
All this would seem to be a sufficient revenge for Southern wrongs. But the Enquirer most frankly tells us that this is only our first lesson. As a measure of proper retributive justice, the West is to be made, to feel the full horrors of war; and in the following delectable paragraph, a programme of peace is laid down which must be especially interesting to the city of Cincinnati:
"It is probable that our Peace Commissioners will have yet several other such, to administer, before the enemy shall be perfectly satisfied that there is no possible peace for him until he withdraws every soldier from the soil of every State, including Missouri, Kentucky, Maryland and Delaware, and yield up to their lawful owners every town and fort h e holds all around our borders. Cincinnati, for example, would, we are assured, burn well. It is the enlightened metropolis of strychnine whiskey, the Queen City of fat pork, peopled by as God-abandoned sons of Yankees as ever killed a hog. Our troops have now got a taste of Northern viands, and their fine healthy appetite grows by what it feeds on. Ohio also has silver and gold, and towns to ransom, and fertile plains
to sweep of flocks and herds. As they will have war, let them have their fill of it, and that in its highest perfection and widest development. So, and not otherwise, will Peace, spread her white wings, and cover all the land as the waters cover the sea.”
These extracts form an admirable comment on the speeches made by Pierce and Seymour on the 4th of July. Those speeches were sufficiently scandalous, considered as an assault on the Government, made at a time when it was engaged in a desperate attempt to repulse an invading enemy. Had that enemy not been repulsed, the Richmond Enquirer tells us what would have followed. It was at such a time that Franklin Pierce took occasion to state that the unconstitutional interference of Northern citizens with the rights of the South was a special cause of the present war, and that our Government was a military despotism. The necessary inference was that the war was unjustifiable, that it was waged against liberty, and that the defeat of the Union army would be a triumph of right and freedom. Either Davis or Lincoln represented constitutional liberty in the great struggle at Gettysburg. Pierce tells us it was not Lincoln.—Boston Transcript.

NEGROPHOBIA.
Professor Tayler Lewis, of Union College, in an admirable article with the above title, uses the following language:—
We venture to say that, odious and deformed as the servile institution of slavery is, there is now growing up in our midst something far more vile, far more insulting to humanity, far more, offensive to God, the Creator and Redeemer of humanity. We have an allusion to that vile negrophobia, negro contempt, or, in other words, that contempt for a portion of our humanity, which is now becoming so rife among us. We say it is a worse thing than slavery, for it breathes a more infernal spirit, while it has none of its palliations, none of its pleas, none of its logical perplexities. It is not only sin per se, but a very vulgar sin; it is the malignity of mean and vulgar spirits, without a moral or prudential reason of any kind to hide its naked deformity. That utterly depraved moral sense which would raise a political clamor because some poor negro, in his extreme penury and helpless ignorance, would "work for ten cents a day," how inexpressibly vile it is! "This country was made for white people," says the heartless demagogue, appealing to the lowest feeling that ever held sway in the human breast,—"this country was made for white people, and he, if he is allowed to live and toil among us, will lower the rate of wages." Who that has a soul can help feeling that it is immeasurably meaner, immeasurably guiltier than the Southern servitude? Grossly as that debases man, it does not debase him to so low a pitch as this.
How unutterably offensive must this be to the Great Being above, who made us " all of one blood, to dwell on all the face of the earth"! To the Christian feeling there is nothing so sad, nothing so discouraging, nothing so fearful in all this odious rebellion. We might better hear of defeats to our armies, than to read such paragraphs in our newspapers. The Bible everywhere teaches us how God hates pride, and the contempt of man for man. It is the insufferable sin. All the grave writings of antiquity express the thought; the solemn Greek tragedy everywhere abounds with it, as though it were the echo to some primeval revelation made to our fallen race, warning them that, though God bears long with other sins, they must be very careful about this. Such a spirit seems to challenge the Almighty to take the side of our adversaries, as really less guilty in this respect, less man-despising, less Heaven-defying than ourselves. We may well tremble for our Northern cause, if this feeling is going to prevail, or even pass unrebuked among us.
What a blaze of light does Scripture cast upon this whole field of moral vision! How unmistakable our duty, as we read, in the great law of love, the Golden Rule, the test that Christ gives us of what, in the last great day of judgment, will be the evidence (not the meritorious ground) of all human righteousness, "Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it not to me "! "The least of these my brethren"—who can mistake such language? How obtuse the conscience that cannot see its direct application to that outcasting of humanity that is going on in our midst!
<c06>
A SHORT CATECHISM.
When Major Pitcairn, of the British marines, leaped on the redoubt f Bunker Hill, shouting," The day is ours." and striking terror into the colonial troops, who sealed those lips, and laid the invader in the dust? Peter Salem, a Negro.
When the struggling colonies were contending for American freedom at Bunker Hill, who stood side by side with our fathers? The Negro.
For whom did the principal officers in that fight petition the General Court for some special token of approbation, describing him as "a brave and gallant soldier"? Salem Poor, a Negro.
Whom did Samuel Lawrence, of Groton, one of our noble patriot ancestors, lead to the fight of Bunker Hill? A company of Negroes.
What makes his grandson so zealous a friend of the Negro? Because he is true to the sacred memories of his ancestor, who was rescued from extreme peril by the determined bravery of this same company of Negroes.
Who, before our degenerate times, in the days of true patriotism, was admitted to stand in the ranks with the white man? The Negro.
What Southern State, in 1775, passed an order for enrolling slaves as military laborers? South Carolina.
Who first promised freedom to all slaves who would join the British army? A British nobleman, Lord Dunmore, Governor of Virginia.
Was the proclamation of Lord Dunmore a brulumfulmen? It aroused the whole colony, and led the masters to promise freedom to every slave who could fight, that would stand by his master.
Who seized Major-General Prescott, chief of the royal army of Newport? Prince, a valiant Negro, who knocked the door of the chamber open with his head, and then seized his victim in bed.
Which is pronounced the best fought battle of the Revolution? The battle of Rhode Island. But it was saved to us by a Negro regiment that three times repelled the Hessians with a desolating fire.
When was Colonel Greene murdered at Point's Bridge? Not until the enemy had laid his Negro guard all dead at his side.
Why were vigorous efforts made to enlist Negroes in Georgia and South Carolina? Because there was not patriotism enough in the whites to make an army to resist the enemy.
What did General Jackson say to the free Negroes of Louisiana in September, 1814? "Through a mistaken policy, you have heretofore been deprived of a participation in the glorious struggle for national rights. This no longer shall exist. As sons of freedom, you are now called upon to defend our most inestimable blessings." In December, 1814, in another proclamation, he says: "I expected much from you; for I was not uninformed of those qualities which made you so formidable to an invading foe. But you surpass my hopes. I have found united in you those qualities, that noble enthusiasm, which impels to great deeds.”
What does General Sixton think of the Negroes as soldiers, laborers, and men? That they show “"as much aptitude as the white soldier; and properly led, they will do as efficient service in battle."—Rev. E. N. Kirk, D. D., in Boston Recorder.

LETTER FROM COL. E. E. CROSS,
Who was Killed in the Battle at Gettysburg—Giving his Experience at the Battle of Fredericksburg.
[We publish the following extract of a private letter from Col. E. E. Cross, because it contains a vivid description of a remarkable experience on the battle -field, and in it can be seen the lustre of the <illegible> spirit now departed. Colonel Cross served his country heartily, hopefully, heroically. He had been hit by the missiles of the enemy, in the various skirmishes and battles in which he had participated before the battle of Fredericksburg, no less than eleven times, receiving three serious wounds.]—Cincinnati Commercial.
HEADQUARTERS 1ST BRIGADE, HANCOCK'S DIVISION, June 4, 1863.
Fredericksburg came near being my last battle. As we were advancing to those fatal heights in line of battle, I was near my colors. A twelve-pounder shell, from the Washington battery, burst right in front of me. One fragment struck me right below the heart, making a bad wound. Another blew off my hat; another (small bit) entered my mouth, and broke out three of my best jaw teeth, while the gravel, bits of frozen earth and minute fragments of shell covered my face with bruises. I fell insensible, and lay so for some time, when another fragment of shell, striking me on the left leg, below the knee, brought me to my senses. My mouth was full of blood, fragments of teeth and gravel, my breast-bone almost broken in, and I lay in mud two inches deep. My brave boys had gone along. I always told them never to stop for me. Dead and wounded lay thick around. One captain of French's division was gasping in death within a foot of my head, his bowels all torn out. The air was full of hissing bullets and bursting shells. Getting on my hands and knees, I looked for my flag. Thank God, there it fluttered right amid the smoke and fire of the front line! I could hear the cheers of my brave men.
Twice the colors dropped, but were up in an instant. I tried to crawl along, but a shell came and struck the steel scabbard of my sabre, splitting it open, and knocking me down flat. Dizzy and faint, I had sense enough to lay myself out decently, "feet to the foe." Two lines passed over me, but soon they swayed back, trampling on the dead and dying. Halting about thirty yards in the rear, one line laid down and commenced firing. Imagine the situation! Right between two fires of bullets and shell—for our own artillery fire from over the river was mostly too short, and did great damage to our own troops. I lay on the field four hours, the most awful moments of my life. As the balls from our line hissed over me within a foot of my head, I covered my face with both hands, and counted rapidly from one to one hundred, expecting every moment my brains would spatter the ground. But they didn't. My guardian angels (if there be such personages) or my destiny saved me. The end of my days was reserved for another, and I hope more fortunate occasion; for if I am to die on the battle-field, I pray that it may be with the cheers of victory in my ears. When it became dark, some of my men found me, and I was carried to the hospital.
You remember the evening of our little festival Out of the gay crowd of officers there assembled, death has made a fearful muster. Of the nineteen officers of the 5th New Hampshire, in the battle seven were killed and ten wounded! Of the five colonels of the brigade, three were badly wounded. Only one mounted officer was left in the brigade, which left half its numbers dead and wounded on the field. Thank Heaven that the old "fire-proof” brigade added to its glorious name that day! The same colors that were in the front at Fair Oaks, Malvern Hill and Antietam, were planted nearest to those inaccessible batteries. Out of two hundred and
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL, EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
forty-nine of my regiment, one hundred and eighty were killed and wounded. Captain Perry and Captain Murray were shot with the colors in their hands. Major Shubrant and Captain Moore fell within thirty or forty yards of that stone wall at the foot of the hill. But I have no heart to go over the details. The scenes of that battle added ten years to my experience.
I suppose we are now in summer quarters. 
When are the conscripts coming? The enemy are very strong in the front of us. I want to fight this thing out. My life-all I have-is at the service of the country, but let me tell you it is hard fighting against stupidity, foolishness and treason at home.
I shall always be glad to see any of my Cincinnati friends, come when they may. I have often been recommended for promotion, and by no less than twelve generals. Yet-so it goes.
Yours truly, EDWARD E. CROSS,
Col. Commanding 1st Brigade.

SPEECH OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS,
Delivered at a Mass Meeting held at National Hall, Philadelphia, July 6, 1863, for the promotion of Colored Enlistments.
Mr. President and FELLOW-CITIZENS—I shall not attempt to follow Judge Kelley and Miss Dickinson in their eloquent and thrilling appeals to colored men to enlist in the service of the United States. They have left nothing to be desired on that point. I propose to look at the subject in a plain and practical common-sense light. There are obviously two views to be taken of such enlistments a broad view and a narrow view. I am willing to take both and consider both. The narrow view of this subject is that which respects the matter of dollars and cents. There are those among us who say they arc in favor of taking a hand in this tremendous war, but they add they wish to do so on terms of equality with white men. They say if they enter the service, endure all the hardships, perils and suffering-if they make bare their breasts, and with strong arms and courageous hearts confront rebel cannons, and wring victory from the jaws of death, they should have the same pay, the same rations, the same bounty, and the same favorable conditions every way afforded to other men.
I shall not oppose this view. There is something deep down in the soul of every man present which assents to the justice of the claim thus made, and honors the manhood and self-respect which insist upon it. [Applause.] I say at once, in peace and war, I am content with nothing for the black man short of equal and exact justice. The only question I have, and the point at which I differ from those who refuse to enlist, is whether the colored man is more likely to obtain justice and equality while refusing to assist in putting down this tremendous rebellion than he would be if he should promptly, generously and earnestly give his hand and heart to the salvation of the country in this day of calamity and peril. Nothing can be more plain, nothing more certain than that the speediest and best possible way open to us to manhood, equal rights and elevation, is that we enter this service. For my own part, I hold that if the Government of the United States offered nothing more, as an inducement to colored men to enlist, than bare -subsistence and arms, considering the moral effect of compliance upon ourselves, it would be the wisest and best thing for us to enlist. [Applause.] There is something ennobling in the possession of arms, and we of all other people in the world stand in need of their ennobling influence.
The case presented in the present war, and the light in which every colored man is bound to view it, may be stated thus. There are two governments struggling now for the possession of and endeavoring to bear rule over the United States-one has its capital in Richmond, and is represented by Mr. Jefferson Davis, and the other has its capital at Washington, and is represented by “Honest Old Abe.”[Cheers and long-continued applause.]-These two governments are to-day face to face, con-fronting each other with vast armies, and grappling each other upon many a bloody field, north and south, on the banks of the Mississippi, and under the shadows of the Alleghenies. Now, the question for every colored man is, or ought to be, what attitude is assumed by these respective governments and armies towards the rights and liberties of the colored race in this country? Which is for us and which against us? [Cries of That’s the question.]
Now, I think there can be no doubt as to the attitude of the Richmond or confederate government. Wherever else there has been concealment, here all is frank, open, and diabolically straightforward.-Jefferson Davis and his government make no secret as to the cause of this war, and they do not conceal the purpose of the war. That purpose is nothing more nor less than to make the slavery of the African race universal and perpetual on this continent. It is not only evident from the history and logic, of events, but the declared purpose of the atrocious war now being waged against the country. Some, indeed, have denied that slavery has anything to do with the war, but the very same men who do this affirm it in the same breath in which they deny it, for they tell you that the abolitionists are the cause of the war. Now, if the abolitionists are the cause of the war, they are the cause of it only because they have sought the abolition of slavery. View it in any way you please, therefore, the rebels are fighting for the existence of slavery-they are fighting for the privilege, the horrid privilege, of sundering the dearest ties of human nature-of trafficking in slaves and the souls of men-for the ghastly privilege of scourging women and selling innocent children. [Cries of That’s true.]
I say this is not the concealed object of the war, but the openly confessed and shamelessly proclaimed object of the war. Vice-President Stephens has stated, with the utmost clearness and precision, the difference between the fundamental ideas of the Confederate Government and those of the Federal Government. One is based upon the idea that colored men are an inferior race, who may be enslaved and plundered forever, and to the heart’s content of any men of a different complexion, while the Federal Government recognizes the natural and fundamental equality of all men. [Applause.]
I say, again, we all know that this Jefferson Davis government holds out to us nothing but fetters, chains, auction-blocks, bludgeons, branding-irons, and eternal slavery and degradation. If it triumphs in this contest, woe, woe, ten thousand woes, to the black man! Such of us as are free, in all the like-lihoods of the case, would be given over to the most excruciating tortures, while the last hope of the long-crushed bondman would be extinguished forever.
Now, what is the attitude of the Washington government towards the colored race? What reasons have we to desire its triumph in the present contest? Mind, I do not ask what was its attitude towards us before this bloody rebellion broke out. I do not ask what was its disposition when it was controlled by the very men who are now fighting to destroy it, when they could no longer control it. I do not even ask what it was two years ago, when McClellan shamelessly gave out that in a war between loyal slaves and disloyal masters, he would take the side of the masters against the slaves-when be openly proclaimed his purpose to put down slave insurrection with an iron hand-when glorious Ben Butler [cheers and applause], now stunned into a conversion to anti-slavery principles (which I have every reason to believe sincere), proffered his services to the Governor of Maryland to suppress a slave insurrection, while treason ran riot in that State, and the warm, red blood of Massachusetts soldiers still stained the pavements of Baltimore.
I do not ask what was the attitude of this government when many of the officers and men who had undertaken to defend it, openly threatened to throw down their arms and leave the service, if men of color should step forward to defend it, and be invested with the dignity of soldiers. Moreover, I do not ask what was the position of this government when our loyal camps were made slave-hunting grounds, and United States officers performed the disgusting duty of slave dogs to hunt down slaves for rebel masters. These were all dark and terrible days for the republic. I do not ask you about the dead past. I bring you to the living present-Events more mighty than men, eternal Providence, all-wise, and all-controlling, have placed us in new relations to the government, and the government to us. What that government is to us to-day, and what it will be to-morrow, is made evident by a very few facts. Look at them, colored men! Slavery in the District of Columbia is abolished forever; slavery the District of Columbia is abolished forever; slavery in alla11 the territories of the United States is abolished forever; the foreign slave trade, with its ten thousand revolting abominations, is rendered impossible; slavery Slavery in ten States of the Union is abolished for ever; slavery in the free <illegible> remaining States is as certain to follow the same fate as the night is to follow the day. The independence of Hayti is recognized;
<c02>
her minister sits beside our Prime Minister, Mr. Seward, and dines at his table in Washington, while colored men are excluded from the cars in Philadelphia; showing that a black man’s complexion in Washington, in the presence of the Federal government, is less offensive than in the city of brotherly love. Citizenship is no longer denied us under this government.
Under the interpretation of our rights by Attorney General Bates, we are American citizens. We can import goods, own and sail ships, and travel in foreign countries with American passports in our pockets; and now, so far from there being any opposition, so far from excluding us from the army as soldiers, the President at Washington, the Cabinet and the Congress, the generals commanding, and the whole army of the nation unite in giving us one thunderous welcome to share with them in the honor and glory of suppressing treason and upholding the star-spangled banner. The revolution is tremendous, and it becomes us as wise men to recognize the change, and to shape our action accordingly. [Cheers, and cries of “We will.”]
I hold that the Federal Government was never, in its essence, anything but an anti-slavery Government. Abolish slavery to-morrow, and not a sentence or syllable of the Constitution need be altered. It was purposely so framed as to give no claim, no sanction to the claim of property in man. If in its origin slavery had any relation to the Government., it was only as the scaffolding to the magnificent structure, to belie removed as soon as the building was completed. There is in the Constitution no East, no West, no North, no South, no black, no white, no slave, no slaveholder, but all are citizens who are of American birth.
Such is the Government, fellow-citizens, you are now called upon to uphold with your arms. Such is the Government that you are called upon to co-operate with in burying rebellion and slavery in a common grave. [Applause.] Never since the world began was a better chance offered to a long enslaved and oppressed people. The opportunity is given us to be men. With one courageous resolution we may blot out the hand-writing of ages against us. Once let the black man get upon his person the brass letters U.D. S.; let him get an eagle on his button, and a musket on his shoulder, and bullets in his pocket, and there is no power on the earth or under the, earth which can deny that he has earned the right of citizenship in the United States. [Laughter and applause.] I say again, this is our chance, and woe. beside us if we fail to embrace it! The immortal bard hath told us:
“There is it a tide in the affairs of men,
Which, taken at the flood food, leads on to fortune.
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
We must take the current when it serves,
Or lose our ventures.”
Do not flatter yourselves, my friends, that you are more important to the Government than the Government is to you. You stand but as the plank to the ship. This rebellion can be put down without your help. Slavery can be abolished by white men: but liberty so won for the black man, while it may leave him an object of pity, can never make him an object of respect.
 Depend upon it, this is no time for hesitation. Do you say you want the same pay that white men get? I believe that the justice and magnanimity of your country will speedily grant it. But will you be over-nice about this matter? Do you get as good wages now as white men get by staying out of the service? Don’t you work for less every day than white men get? You know you do. Do I hear you say you want black officers? Very well, and I1 have not the slightest doubt that, in the progress of this war, we shall see black officers, black colonels, and generals even. But is it not ridiculous in us in all at once refusing to be commanded by white men in time of war, when we are everywhere commanded by white men in time of peace? Do I hear you say still that you are a son, and want your mother provided for in your absence?- a husband, and want your wife cared for?-a brother, and want your sister secured against want? I honor you for your solicitude. Your mothers, your wives and your sisters ought to be cared for, and an association of gentlemen, composed of responsible white and colored men, is now being organized in this city for this very purpose.
Do I hear you say you offered your services to Pennsylvania, and were refused? I know it. But what of that? The State is no more that the nation. The greater includes the lesser. Because the State refuses, you should all the more readily turn to the United States. [Applause.] When the children fall out, they should refer their quarrel to the parent. “You came’ unto your own, and your own received you not.” But the broad gates of the United States stand open night and day. Citizenship in the United States will, in the end, secure your citizenship in the State.
Young men of Philadelphia, you are without excuse. The hour has arrived, and your place is in the Union army. Remember that the musket-the United States musket with its bayonet of steel-is better than all mere parchment guarantees of liberty. In your hands that musket means liberty; and should your constitutional right at the close of this war be denied, which, in the nature of things, it cannot be, your brethren are safe while you have a Constitution which proclaims your right to keep and bear arms. [Immense cheering.]

HOW THE REBELS REGARD VALLANDIGHAM.
In a national sense, he is an enemy to the Confederacy; but it cannot be denied that his personal sympathies are with a people. Struggling, struggling against the same tyranny that has trampled upon liberty in his own country, and that has laid its hand upon him for the purpose of crushing him out as a champion of that liberty. His own views of his position were exposed in a brief address to the people of Ohio, dated the 5th ultimo, and written from the Military Prison in Cincinnati.
The Confederate press agree, without dissent, that the misfortunes of the distinguished exile command respect and kind treatment at the hands of our people. They oppose, with equal unanimity, the policy and propriety of any public demonstration, or of any course of action to alter his status, as an exiled citizen of the United States, and as a candidate for GOVERNOR IN ONE OF THE MOST PROMINENT STATES OF THE OLD UNION.
The majority of the press agree with us that Mr. V.’ s best course is to get out of the country as soon as possible, and make his way to Canada, as near to Ohio as possible, and there prosecute his canvass for Governor of that State. That course would be better for the cause of freedom in his own country, to which he has devoted his life, better for himself and his own power of usefulness, and better for us who are deeply concerned in every effort which looks to the overthrow of the Black Republican Government which rules at Washington, to the disgrace of civilization and humanity. If he remains, he loses his power, and plays into the cunning hands of Lincoln and Seward. If he returns, he may yet become the liberator of his country. Another course has been suggested. It is for him to repair to New York, and “claim the protection of Gov. Seymour, and of the State which boasts that it is free. Mr. V. is himself the only proper judge of the policy of such a step. He knows better than we do the hopes and the peril of it. As his personal well-wisher, we should hesitate to advise it. As a Confederate, we should be glad to see the experiment tried. It would open the way for an issue between the boasted “u Free State” of New York, and the Lincoln Dictatorship, and to show whether there was any back-bone left to New York Democracy, State rights, and Constitutional freedom.-Mobile Evening News.
The civil law still prevails over all the North. The President has declared martial law only as to specified persons and specific acts. It is only against rebels, insurgents, their aiders and abettors, and persons discouraging volunteer enlistments, resisting the militia drafts, and guilty of disloyal practices, affording aid and comfort to the rebels, against the authority of the United States. The purpose is to prevent the defeat of the very means put into his hands to suppress the rebellion. He cannot conquer without an army. He cannot call men to arms without power to compel them to come; and be cannot maintain discipline if outside interference prevail.
This is no ordinary case of war, where the necessity for martial law limits it to narrow confines. The antecedent relations of the two sections scattered the brands of disaffection all over the North. Treason, like a cutaneous disease, has spread over the population the virulent pustules of disloyalty, and many lie so hidden beneath the surface that the most vigilant scrutiny cannot detect their presence.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 24,1863. 

FIRST OF AUGUST!
Emancipation the only Safe and Just Policy. 
The 29th Anniversary of West India Emancipation will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at

ISLAND GROVE, ABINGTON,
on SATURDAY, August 1st; to which all are invited who desire that, hereafter, it may be in our power to celebrate the anniversary of a day which shall see every slave in the United States emancipated, and every root of slavery extirpated from the American soil. Come, all friends of liberty! Aid us in making this the most effective meeting for justice and for our country ever held on Old Colony ground. Let the true word give impulse to the right, just and brave deed; and every heart be nerved afresh with the determination to utterly crush the rebellion of the slave holders, South and North, and with the rebellion, its, origin, support, motive, and end-Human SLAVERY.
Among the expected speakers are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, WM. WELLS BROWN, THEODORE D. WELD, &c. &c.
An Excursion Train, on the Old Colony Rail-road, will leave the Depot, Kneeland Street, Boston, at 9 1/4, A. M. on that day. Leave Plymouth at 9.20, A. M. Both trains will stop at usual way stations, and at the Grove. 
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 5 1/4, P. M.
FARES-Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Neponset, Quincy and Braintree, to the Grove and back, for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
Plymouth, Kingston, Plympton, and Halifax, to the Grove and back, half the usual rates.
Excursion tickets good on other trains.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Abington Town Hall, near the Grove.
By order of the Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R. F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

THE LATE FIENDISH RIOTS.
Whoever attempts to charge upon the conscription act the origin of the late fiendish riots in New York and elsewhere, is to be set down as extremely credulous or boldly dishonest. In all loyal minds, that act is not only constitutional beyond all doubt, but indispensable to the maintenance of the Federal Government and the suppression of the rebellion; and they give to it not only their acquiescence, but also their hearty support. Resistance of it is prima facie evidence of a treasonable spirit on the part of every one claiming to be an American citizen; and therefore the cheers for Jeff. Davis that went up from the throats of the worse than savage rioters in New York, as they surged from street to street, carrying desolation and murder in their track. It has been a part of the programme of the Southern traitors, from the beginning of their revolt, if driven to the wall, to stir up in due time, in all the leading cities and towns of the North, those elements of ignorance and depravity which are easily “set on fire of hell” by the concealed hands of confederate sympathizers, and which, when ignited, are capable of achieving misery and ruin on a gigantic scale. Now that Vicksburg and Port Hudson (and in all probability, ere this, Charleston) have fallen, and Richmond is in peril of speedy capture, and victory is everywhere perching upon the Federal standard, and the confederate army is dissolving like snow in spring time, it behooves Jefferson Davis and his compeers in crime to lose no time in stimulating that mobocratic spirit which has been eagerly waiting for its summons to burst forth like a whirlwind, and by its excesses send dismay and horror through every portion of the North. Hence, the hellish deeds which have been perpetrated in the “commercial emporium,” as the focal point of Northern disloyalty and foreign degradation. The draft simply furnished the occasion to inflame the passions of the dangerous classes, under the guise of resisting a tyrannical edict; but the determination to invoke the aid of incendiarism and assassination, in the last resort, was coeval with the act of Southern secession. As slavery is “the sum of all vllanies,” there is nothing so cruel or diabolical in purpose or action that its confederate upholders are not capable of perpetrating. Their instrumentalities are manifold. “Full of all deceivable of unrighteousness,” they can wear any garb and assume any aspect.
The peculiarity of these riots is, that the mass of those who participate in them are the lowest and most brutal of the Irish population. These are cruelly made use of because there is no other class at the North capable of committing the atrocities required by the urgency of the case. Of them it may be as compassionately said, as Jesus said of the rabble who crucified him, “They know not what they do.” For them we have no burning indignation: they are the wretched victims of intelligent and desperate conspirators, who deal with them as the gambler does with his loaded dice.
Primarily, then, the awful guilt and dread responsibility of all these riots rest upon those Southern traffickers in human flesh who have broken the nation asunder, and brought upon it immeasurable woe, for the sole purpose of preserving and extending negro slavery. Already, their fiendish exultation is beginning to break forth in characteristic strains. “Riot, murder and conflagration,” says the Richmond Enquirer, “have begun in New York.” It deems “a world’s’ wonder that this good work did not commence long ago.”It derives immense satisfaction from the belief that “this excellent outbreak may be the opening scene of the inevitable revolution which is to tear to pieces that most rotten society, and leave the Northern half of the old American Union a desert of blood-soaked ashes,” and “bids it good speed.”It gloats over the prospect of seeing, “yet a little while, the giant but hollow bulk of the Yankee nation bursting into fragments, and rushing down into perdition in flames and blood.” Who but demons could write in this strain, or be jubilant over such infernal atrocities?
Secondarily, the Northern democratic leaders, like Gov. Seymour, Franklin Pierce, C. L. Vallandigham and Fernando Wood-and such journals as the New York World, News, Express, Herald, and Journal of Commerce, and Boston Courier and Post—by their factious opposition to the Government and artful appeals to the passions of an ignorant and unreasoning mob-are to be brought to the bar of justice, and held directly responsible for all those excesses which have made the midnight sky lurid with the <illegible> burning dwellings, and the streets of the city gory with blood. They are the Northern accomplices of the Southern principals. It is what they have said and done to malign the Government and represent it is the enemy of the poorer classes,-as animated solely by a tyrannical and usurping spirit,-that has operated to bring about this hideous state of things, and added fuel to the flame. While such are allowed, with audacious impunity, to “scatter firebrands, arrows and death” broadcast, there is no safety for life or property, and Government permits itself to be placed upon a heaving volcano.

WENDELL PHILLIPS’S SPEECHES AND LECTURES.
The first edition of this book was sold in four days-as rapidly as it could be bound. The second edition, which is nearly out of press, is already ordered, and a third edition will immediately follow it. It is a very solid and handsomely bound volume of more than five hundred pages, and elegantly printed at the Cambridge University press. For an enumeration of its contents, see Mr. Redpath’s advertisement on our last page.
<c04>
THE COLORED SAILORS’ HOME.
FRIEND GARRISON—With a sorrowful, heart, I write you a narrative of the outrages perpetrated upon myself and defenceless family by a lawless, infuriated New York mob. On the afternoon of the 13th inst., the Colored Sailors’ Home, No. 2 Dover street, was invaded by a mob of half-grown boys. At this Home, established under the direction of the American Seamen’s Friend Society, boarded the last eleven months four hundred and fifty colored seamen. Founded on the strict principles of temperance, and the moral and religious elevation of my brethren of the sea, it was the only refuge where they could rest secure, when in port, from the snares and temptations which unhappily beset them on shore.
More than thirteen years ago, the anniversary meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society was mobbed, and driven out of the Broadway Tabernacle and other public buildings, by the notorious Capt. Rynders and his hellish crew. That was an outrage for which it was hoped New York had condoned for by confession, contrition and satisfaction, and had received absolution and remission of their sins, from the ghastly hands of our down-trodden humanity. 
Dear Garrison, throughout the course of your eventful life, as the unflinching advocate of the suffering dumb of our enslaved race, in which you have never faltered, and have, from time, to time, been mobbed, imprisoned, bruised, beaten, and dragged through the streets of Puritan Boston as a malefactor, you can well enter into my feelings. As a man of peace, I have religiously, and upon principles eternal as the heavens, never armed myself with deadly weapons of defence, and thus have been at the mercy of the blood-thirsty Vandals. It was the wisdom of one insignificant man that once saved a besieged city. I thank God who has given me the victory-to rely wholly upon His all-protecting arm. It was better that all my property should be destroyed, as it has been, and my family stripped of everything except the clothing in which they escaped with their lives, than that one drop of blood should be shed in defence of their lives. Let us thank God that He still reigns, and that He will yet make the wrath of man to praise him.
From 2, P. M., till 8, P. M. myself and family were prisoners in my own house to king mob, from which there was no way to escape but over the roofs of adjoining houses. About 4, P. M., I sent a note to Superintendent Kennedy for protection, but received none, from the fact that he had been seriously injured by the mob in another part of the city. Well, the mob commenced throwing stones at the lower windows until they had succeeded in making an opening. I was determined not to leave until driven from the premises. My family, including my invalid daughter, (who is entirely helpless,) took refuge on the roof of the next house. I remained till the mob broke in, and then narrowly escaped the same way. This was about 8 ½, P. M. We remained on the roof for an hour; still I hoped relief would come. The neighbors, anticipating the mob would fire my house, were removing their effects on the roof-all was excitement. But as the object of the mob was plunder, they were too busily engaged in carrying off all my effects to apply the torch. Add to this, it began to rain as if the very heavens were shedding tears over the dreadful calamity. “Hung be the heavens with black! “
How to escape from the roof of a five-story building with four females-and one a cripple-besides eight men, without a ladder, or any assistance from outside, was beyond my not excited imagination. But the God that succored Hagar in her flight came to my relief in the person of a little deformed, despised Israelite-who, Samaritan-like, took my poor helpless daughter under his protection in his house; there I presume she now is, until friends send her to me. He also supplied me with a long rope. I then took a survey of the premises, and fortunately found a way to escape; and though pitchy dark, I took soundings with the rope, to see if it would touch the next roof, after which I took a clove-hitch around the clothes-line which was fastened to the wall by pulleys, and which led from one roof to the other over a space of about one hundred feet. In this manner I man aged to lower my family down to the next roof, and from one roof to another, until I landed them in a neighbor’s yard. We were secreted in our friend’s cellar till 11, P. M., when we were taken in charge by the police, and locked up in the Station house for safety. In this dismal place we found upwards of seventy men, women and children-some with broken limbs-bruised and beaten from head to foot. We stayed in this place for twenty-four hours, when the police escorted us to the New Haven boat, at 11, P. M. Thus we escaped from an infuriated mob, leaving our invalid daughter in New York in the hands of kind friends.
All my personal property, to the amount of $3000, has been scattered to the four winds, which, “like the baseless fabric of a vision, leaves not a wreck be- hind,” except our lives; and so the Lord be praised.
As a devoted loyal Unionist, I have done all I could to perpetuate and uphold the integrity of this free government. As an evidence of this devoted ness, my oldest son is now serving my country as a surgeon in the United States army, and myself had just received a commission in the naval service. What more could I do? What further evidence was wanting to prove my allegiance in the exigencies of our unfortunate country? I am now an old man, stripped of everything which I once possessed, of all the comforts of life; but I thank God that He has you spared my life, which I am ready to yield in the de fence of my country.
I am, Sir, yours, &c.,
WM. P. POWELL.
New Bedford, July 18, 1863.

THE RIOTOUS OUTBREAK IN NEW YORK.
New York, July 20th, 1863.
Dear Friend Garrison:—In this city, during the past week, has been the reign of terror. As I am, now, a permanent resident in New York, I beg leave to relate a few of the leading acts of violence, robbery, incendiarism and bloodshed, some of which took place under my own observation.
Among the most cruel and barbarous acts of the mob was the slaughter of the colored people. In the evening, on Clarkson street, I saw a poor negro hanging by the neck on a tree. He was entirely naked, and a slow fire burning under him! His feet were partially roasted; his body scorched in several places, and lifeless! A crowd of low people,-men, women and children,—were looking on; rude boys were poking the poor corpse with sticks; while others of the crowd were making decision of their victim.
A day or two afterwards, the mob hung another colored man on a tree, in Thirty-second street, not far from my office. It took place about six o’clock, A.M. Soon after it occurred, I ventured to go near the place of the horrible scene, and saw a most loathsome looking crowd, jeering at the mangled corpse as though they had done a worthy deed. They appeared more like demons than human beings. Any man’s life would have been in danger, had he interfered. A rough looking man stepped forward, with knife in hand, and went to cutting open all the pockets of the dead body, to ascertain what he could find.
There were no policemen, nor soldiers, on the ground. At last, the military came rushing along; some mounted on horses, with waving swords; soldiers with glistening bayonets; and artillery, with brass cannon. The cavalry with their swords cut down the dead body. It fell into the gutter: they left it lying there. The artillery soon fired their cannon, and raked the streets of the mob. After the military had left the scene, the rioters returned, and renewed their depredations. They hung up the dead carcass again, amid the cheers of howling demons. They then put an old cloth cap on the victim’s head and turned him round so as to front the crowd, and enable them to see his bruised face and bloody head, so that they might enjoy the horrid spectacle! 
It appeared that they had beat and bruised the poor
<c05>
unfortunate negro. and dragged him in the street, before they hung him up; for his clothing was covered with mud, and his face and head, were horribly mangled, which gave the corpse a frightful appearance. The house in which he resided being opposite, they broke out the windows, and set it on fire. In a few minutes the building was all in flames. The engines were soon on hand, and prevented the other houses from burning down; but the negro dwelling was burned. Reports says that the family fled in such haste, the inmates, left a colored baby in the building.
All Abolitionists and leading Republicans were in danger. Horace Greeley was called for by some of the mob. They said they wanted to hang him up by the side of the negro; and why they did not murder him, as he passed up and down regularly to his dinners and lodgings, is a miracle. The rioters threatened to burn every Anti-Slavery church, and kill every Abolitionist. They went to Crook’s hotel on Chatham st. and drove out all the colored waiters, who fled for their lives to Philadelphia. On Broadway, the mob discovered a colored man riding on the outside of a carriage, and pulled him off. He hit his head on the wheel, and fell to the ground. They beat and stamped him to death on the pavement. [We are obliged to curtail this letter for lack of room.] 
Yours, truly, NOYES WHEELER.

EMANCIPATION.
Slavery in North America “is doomed,” is the cry of Abolitionists, and the prediction is reechoed by the voices of thousands. The emancipation of so many slaves by the President’s proclamation, the discovery that they may be made valiant soldiers and useful citizens, have impressed the mind of the Northern people with the expectation that the day of entire freedom in this land is not far distant.
But there is no rationality in the belief, that it can as certainly be brought about by any of the events which may precede it; and the opinions of those who anxiously desire it are different as to the method by which it is to be effected. This difference renders it uncertain whether slavery is yet to die, as an error in the method of abolishing it would of course make a failure in the attempt. To the aspirants for freedom, this is therefore the most important question that can be presented; and it is the one now proposed to be discussed.
Most persons believe that general emancipation is to be the consequence of this present war of secession, and would not have occurred without it; but it is plain that this will depend on the way in which the war will terminate; which, therefore, is to be considered.
There are only three methods by which this war can be closed, viz:—
1. By conquest and subjugation of the seceded States, holding them as conquered provinces, by military force.
2. By the restoration of the Union under the present or an amended Constitution, to which the seceded States may consent.
3. By recognition of their separation, as an independent power, and a treaty of peace with them.
The first of these methods is one to which the majority of the people would not consent. It would be contrary to the principles on which our Government is built; would be attended with too burdensome an expense; would be destructive of the liberty and morality of the nation; and no intelligent man could wish or expect it to be permanent; though maintained for a time, from necessity, it would soon be exchanged for one of the two other conditions; and the slavery which it would undoubtedly suppress might again be restored when the Federal armies were withdrawn, which could not be prevented by the Government. It may therefore be put out of the question.
The second supposition is that which the Government and conductors of the war appear to have in view; but it is clearly visionary. We have the most thorough assurances that the people of the seceded State are resolutely determined never to come again into voluntary union with the North, or to give up their property in slaves, however they may be reduced in power; but should the expectations of the Federal Government be fulfilled, and the Union be restored, it can only be on the Constitution as it is; and the moment that is accomplished, the proclamations of the President will become dead letters at once; the slave States can renew and extend their slavery, which the Federal Government cannot prevent; even the slaves now emancipated in the free States will be subject to reclamation by the Constitution. Those persons who declare that the Union shall not be restored with slavery in it, might be gratified with its exclusion, but could not prevent its resumption when the Union was reestablished.
We now come to the third and only remaining supposition-viz., that the independence of the seceded States should be recognized, and a peace made with them. In this case, it is true the free States cannot stipulate with the slave States for the abolition of slavery, but may exempt themselves from all participation in and responsibility for it, and from all the evils and disgrace arising from it. Slavery at the South will be no more to the North than it is in Brazil or Cuba; the sympathies with it, of some parties at the North and in Europe, will be gone; and all obligation to life return of fugitive slaves will cease; and this fact, known to the slaves, will cause escapes by hundreds; and Northern opposition to insurrection will be no longer feared. Slavery, thus menaced and effectually circumscribed, cannot long continue; and the slaveholders, compelled to resort to free labor, would soon find it more profitable, more safe, and more humane, and in time would voluntarily move for emancipation; especially if the greatest sufferers by it should be compensated. This is the true path of freedom. Every sincere and practical Abolitionist should strive for separation. J. P. B. 

PATRIOTIC SENTIMENTS.
We received a letter from our venerable friend, JESSE STEDMAN, of Springfield, (Vt.) dated July 1st, in which, after expressing his regret that he should not be able to attend the Anti Slavery celebration of the 4th at Framingham, he embodied the following patriotic sentiments for the occasion:—
“The great principles of civil liberty, enunciated on that memorable day, the 4th of July, 1776, form an epoch in the world’s history, second in importance to none since the crucifixion. To maintain them, we seized the sword; we are now at war because we abandoned them. May the war never end till the last enemy of human liberty be conquered or slain, and the last slave set free.
The Ladies-The first in every good cause, and the last to abandon the post of duty. To the cry of the needy, their ears are never closed; at the couch of suffering, their hands never tire. England counts her Florence Nightingales by units; we count ours by scores and thousands. May they never want for the sympathy and support of husbands, brothers and friends! 
New England left out in the cold.—Inured to the storms of two hundred and forty winters, she has nothing to fear from the Northern blast; and less to fear from Southern steel than from Southern principles. Her first foot-prints on this continent were upon a “Rock,” and her reliance is upon the Rock of Ages. Faithful to her primeval principles, may she live forever! 
The Rebels-No common foes. Like Milton’s devils, they prefer to reign in hell, rather than serve in heaven. They combine the cunning of the fox, the ferocity of the tiger, the self-conceit of the ass, the cowardice of the assassin, the cruelty of the savage, and the brainless fury of the maniac. With a conquering Joshua at their heels, may they share the fate of the seven nations of Palestine!
The Slaves-While their enemies butcher each other, may they escape between the two fires.”
<c06>
PROGRESSIVE MEETING AT LOCKPORT.
ROCHESTER,(N.Y.)July 10th, 1863.
MR. GARRISON:—
My friend, I sent you a word touching the Waterloo Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress. The next week, Friday, June 12th,commenced a similar meeting for three days, at Lockport. The <illegible> was made up, for the first two days, mainly of persons from the country, thoughtful and intelligent. 
The daily paper had advertised that on Sunday, “The State of the Country” would be the topic, and a large and good audience met to hear, with deep interest, the word of H. C. Wright and others, on the subject.
The President of the meeting, Mr. Trowbridge, a returned soldier from Rosecrans’ army, made a noble speech, true to freedom, which was well received.
The next week, Friday, the 19th, I met Mr. Wright at Sturgis, Michigan, a pleasant village of some 1500 people, in a rich and beautiful prairie, on the M.S.R railroad, one hundred miles west of Toledo.
At 10 o’clock, A. M. commenced a three days’ meeting, largely attended, and of great value and interest.
The spacious and pleasant “Free Church,” built by the Spiritualists and others, was readily opened, and tastefully decorated with evergreen. Woven in green wreaths along the wall, over the plattorm, was the word PROGRESSION. Vases on the stand, in windows, and every fit niche, bloomed out in a rich wealth of roses and flowers.
J. A. Fox, of Orland, Indiana-a true man and a pioneer in Anti-Slavery-was made President; Mr. Jacobs, of Sturgis, Secretary. A Committee was chosen to offer subjects, arrange for speakers, and so plan that freedom and order should aid each other.
“Human Progress,” “Immortality,” “Education, physical, mental, and spiritual, ”and “The Rebellion, ”were the subjects. Saturday had been advertised as set apart for “The Rebellion,” and through three long sessions, closing at 10 P. M., the house was thronged, and many were unable to gain entrance, while showers forbade an out door meeting. Our blind friend, Mr. Hoisington, spoke with much earnestness. J. T. Rouse, of Indiana, a blind man also, gave a noble address. H. C. Wright and others spoke, and the most thorough utterances for liberty and justice gained most earnest response. It was a day of great value.
Sunday morning, for an hour or two, was a conference for short talks, full of interest, and then came speeches,—each one left to talk on what topic they chose. Whatever the subject, came up from most the good word for Liberty and Union.
Through the three days were held nine sessions., H.C. Wright, Mr. Jameison, Mrs. Kutz, Mr. Parker, J. T. Rouse, Mr. Hoisington, and others speaking The petitions of the “Women’s Loyal League” for emancipation were presented, one hundred and twenty names of women taken, money collected for them, and several petitions taken home by women from other towns.
Sunday evening, Mrs. Josephine S. Griffin spoke at the close, with deep feeling and a persuasive power, that held all in quiet attention. Mr. Wright added a few words, and at 10 1/2 P. M., the people left, slowly and reluctantly.
The next week, Saturday, the 27th, we met at Farmington, twenty miles north west of Detroit, in a beautiful grove, some three hundred persons. The busy haymakers waited until the next day, but the hours were well filled by those present.
Sunday brought a multitude. I spoke for one hour on The Rebellion, when there came a sudden pouring of rain for half an hour. Such grotesque scrambling! What a subject for a Hogarth! At 2 P.M. about a third met again, in a church in the village, filling it well Mr. Wright spoke on the war and the “copperhead “schemes, and at the close read a series of most “radical” resolves, which were adopted by a rising vote of almost every person present. Notwithstanding the rain, the meeting was so encouraging that a committee was chosen to plan for a three days’ gathering next season.
Yours, truly, G. B. STEBBINS.

MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
HAYTI, June 30, 1863.
BRO.GARRISON-Your criticism of Blair is excellent, but do you not know that Blair is the echo of Lincoln? Are you not aware that he is speaking by authority? Look at his speech in Cleveland, a few weeks since, and see how oracular he is in speaking of the intention of the Government as to the separation of the races. I can assure you, my old friend, that nothing is further from the design of Lincoln than emancipation without colonization,—and Montgomery Blair is his chosen medium, through which to infuse the worse than brutal hatred among the people. Though the Blairs came into the Republican party strongly inimical to Weed and Seward, they are hale fellows well met now;, and are all in sweet communion with the President in their hatred of the colored race. No three men in America gave Seward so much character among the best portion of the world as you, and Phillips, and Parker. I warned you of it in 1855, and told you were rearing a chicken whose neck you would be glad to wring. I dare say you thought me crazy then-and will now, when I tell you that you and Phillips and your co-workers, whom I believe to be the best- meaning men in the world, have done more to give Lincoln character than any or all other men living. Now, my brother, see if he does not retire from office the least1east possible fragment of humanity, in your estimation, of anything conceivable between angels and lizards. I beseech you to read that Cleveland speech of Blair’s, and see the efforts to head off the noble Fremont, who had publicly advised the use of the newly freed men in the construction of the prcific Railroad. I behold in that speech the conspiracy of the Blairs, Weeds and Sewards.
W. O. DUVALL 

MRS. HATCH.AND.HER.ASSAILANT.
A nondescript writer, addressing “Dear Garrison,” and claiming to know not only what Theodore Parker believed when in this world, but presumptuously assuming to tell us what Theodore Parker’s belief is at the present time, in the world of spirits, has made a vituperative attack upon Mrs. Cora L. V. Hatch, the celebrated medium, who has given unmistakable evidence, to reasonable men, that she is influenced by de parted human spirits. He says-”It is a monstrous injustice to pretend that Mr. Parker has come back from that ‘undiscovered bourne,’ and thus to <illegible> the sentiments he entertained while here on earth.” What sentiments, in Heaven’s name, did Mrs. Hatch pretend that he had repudiated? In the discourse of “The Future of America,” are there any sentiments at variance with the writings of Theodore Parker when on earth? Not one word. What, then, can Mr. Anonymous mean, excepting to ventilate his spleen against Spiritualism, and thus maliciously attacking an innocent and virtuous lady, and ridiculing her private life because she was unfortunate enough to marry a man who cared more for dollars than for her? It was her purity and goodness of heart which led to their separation. Is there anything in this circumstance which invalidates the truths of Spiritualism-which indicates false pretensions on the part of Mrs. Hatch? 
Or does he think that Theodore Parker is such a moral coward that, after having ascertained the great fact that spirits can communicate with the inhabitants of this world, he would forbear and omit the opportunity, because he disbelieved the possibility of such communication while here? Mr. Parker did not claim infallibility; and he must have a very imperfect acquaintance with his character and faith, who considers him so bigoted and obstinate that he would reject or refuse to avail himself of a new truth, simply because he is afraid his old friends and hearers would jeer at his spirit, through the nameless and irresponsible articles of a newspaper. H. E. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PRESENTATION OF COLORS TO THE FIFTY-FIFTH REGIMENT.
The departure of the Fifty-fifth regiment (colored) having been announced to take place early next week, Gov. Andrew, Saturday forenoon, formally presented the National and State colors, and also two banners purchased by colored women of Ohio, which is largely represented in the regiment. The attendance of friends was not large, but comprised many who have been compacted with the formation of the regiment. The Governor was attended by his staff, and accompanied be Wendell Phillips, Rev. Mr. Grimes and others. The men were formed in a hollow square, the ceremonies taking place in the center. The colored band greeted the Governor with a tune apparently intended be "Hail to the Chief." The Governor spoke as follows:-
SPEECH OF GOVERNOR ANDREW.
<Illegible> At the request of the Governor of Ohio and of the Committee of colored women of the State of Ohio whose gifts they are, I am here first is present to the Fifty-fifth regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, emblematic banners which are presented by the mothers, wives, and daughters of the State of Ohio whose hearts are moved by interests both of patriotism and of personal affection toward the regiment I now have the honor to address.
The women of Ohio who have prepared these emblematic tokens of their affectionate interest and fervent aspirations and regard, had expected to be represented by one of their own immediate friends and fellow citizens upon the occasion of this presentation. Circumstances which prevented the gentleman who was the bearer of their mission from appearing to-day, have in like manner, rendered it both a duty and pleasure to myself to appear not only for the purpose of delivering the regulation colors of Massachusetts and the flags of the Union to the Massachusetts 55th, but also for the purpose of passing into your hands, Mr. Commander, these emblems and tokens of the affectionate patriotism of the women of Ohio. I take especial satisfaction in being the instrumentality today, of expressing in living signs, and by vivid tokens, the interest (which no words can adequately convey,) which the mothers and relatives of these men take in the welfare and the honor, not less of the 55th regiment, than of those whose names and whose blood they inherit.
I present you, Mr. Commander, in behalf of the committee of colored women of Ohio, this splendid emblematic banner, bearing upon a blue field with appropriate insignia, the eagle of the Republic. Take it Mr. Commander, and wherever our <illegible>soars, let the <illegible> of the 55th with equal flight bear its honored, unquestioned, and victorious way. In behalf, also, of the women of Ohio. I present to the 55th regiment the splendid regulation flag of the American Union-inspite of traitors, secessionists, rebels, slaveholders, and <illegible> every where, to be forever one and <illegible>.
This ceremony. Mr. Commander, adds another tie to the fraternal bond uniting inseparably and indissolubly the affections and interests of the East and West, and I am glad to recognize in the ranks of your regiment men who, for a portion of their lives at least, have breathed the pure air of the broad prairies of the West. And now, Mr. Commander, I present to you, officially, as the Governor of Massachusetts, in conformity with a ceremony frequently practised by my-self toward other regiments which have been your predecessors in the field, the white flag of the ancient Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It bears no stain, today, save that which it has received from the golden drops of our brothers’ blood shed in its defence. Bear it, Mr. Commander, and soldiers of the 55th, whenever honor and duty lead the way. The regulation flag of the United States I present to you, also, in any official capacity. One of the banners, bearing additional emblems, presented, to you by the women of Ohio, is also the flag of the American Union. But it would not become the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to forbear, even although the American flag is in your possession, to present, in accordance with our regulation and our customs, the banner of our country. You receive it now from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which has never been, which will never be, and which can never be, otherwise than faithful to the principles, the traditions, the history, the origin and the destiny of our united America. 
I have to congratulate you, Mr. Commander and soldiers of the 55th, that at this hour you are not engaged in any experiment; recognizing the fact that the rank and file of your regiment is composed of men upon whose countenances the suns of warmer climes than these have embrowned a hue foreign to our Sax-on blood. I have the honor and grand satisfaction to declare that no longer is the employment of Americans of African descent an experiment in the camp, on the march, in the siege, or on the field of battle. Your regiment has already been preceded by brave men of African descent, who have faced danger, who have endured fatigue, who have assailed heights, who have endured fatigue. who have assailed heights, who have stormed batteries, who have met bayonets and bullets and the cannon ball with stern determination, and sometimes victorious foes. But they have never wavered in their duty to their flag, in obedience to their commanders, nor have they wavered either from obeying the impulses of constitutionally brave and heroic hearts. I commend to you and to your regiment these noble examples; and in committing you, as you will soon be committed, to transports that will bear you hence, I have the pleasure to declare now that you will soon be received in the department of North Carolina by a Massachusetts soldier and General of brigade, whose history from the beginning of the war has been a history of personal bravery, of chivalrous, heroic, manly and honorable conduct and purposes, devoted now to the especial purpose of enlisting into the service of the Union the native colored people of the State of north Carolina. I have also the honor and the happiness to declare that the Commanding General of the department of North Carolina, aware of your organization, knowing the quality of the men who have been selected to compose this command, are not ignorant, as few instructed men are, of your own personal history and conduct, Col. Hallowell, since the beginning of the war, and of the personal history and chivalrous conduct of many of the officers composing your command-has recently sought to add to it the forces of his own department.
Under circumstances, therefore, honorable and hopeful and in the highest degree encouraging to earnest and patriotic hearts, with auspices attending us on every hand of triumph and success, whether on the banks of the Potomac, of the Cumberland, or of the Mississippi, I commend you now to the high and heroic future which shall become the Colonel, the officers and the men of the 55th Massachusetts Volunteers.

RESPONSE OF COLONEL HALLOWELL.
Gov. Andrew: With you I regret that a representative man of the colored people of Ohio, the man who had been designated by the colored ladies of that State to present these flags, and who has done so much for this regiment, is not with us here to-day. Will you tell him, sir, that we have received these flags, the emblems of a country and of a people which shall be free., and of States whose honor has grown daily brighter in the presence of a hundred battles. We receive them and the State flags presence by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and we shall cherish them with a soldier’s love and veneration, and by the help of God we shall protect them with a soldier’s devotion.
The gentleman from Ohio alluded to above is John M. Langston, a colored lawyer. At the conclusion of the presentation speeches, the regiment passed in review, making a very creditable appearance.

DEPARTURE OF THE 55th REGIMENT.
The second of the Massachusetts colored regiments, numbered the 55th of our volunteer regiments, left Readville on Tuesday, and came direct to this city, to embark for Newbern, N. C. This regiment was recruited under the direction of Col. Hallowell, formerly Lieutenant Colonel of the 54th regiment, and is composed of a young, healthy, and vigorous class of men.
The time at Readville has been well employed, and the men have improved rapidly in drill, and in a knowledge of military duties.
The regiment broke camp at Readville, about nine o’clock, and came direct to this city. They were met at the depot by hosts of friends, who gave them a hearty greeting.
 The regiment, escorted and flanked by the police, at once took up the line of march through Boylston, Tremont and Beacon to Charles street, where a brief halt was made for the purpose of resting.
Resuming the march to Battery Wharf, the regiment passed through Cambridge, Court, State and Commercial streets.
The crowd in State street cheered the regiment heartily.
The regiment marched to the music of the regimental band, relieved at intervals by a drum corps. There were no symptoms of dislike manifested on the march through the city.
As the colored regiment was passing Park street church, they were heartily cheered by about a hundred and fifty men of the 44th regiment, who, with their Colonel, were there drawn up in line.
The regiment looked clean and well, and in their marching they showed they had profited by the drill they have had during the two months they have been in camp. The men are of the best class for the service, and as a proof of this we will say that of the 850,-900 bounty money, paid to the regiment last week, an Agent of the American Express Company received $15,000 to transmit to their families in Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. 
The Transcript of Wednesday evening says:-
"The friends of the 55th will be pleased to learn that in addition to the amount reserved from their funds mentioned yesterday, the men of this regiment have made large allotments from their monthly pay, which will be placed in the hands of the State Treasurer on interest, or transmitted by him to the families.
<c02>
and friends of the soldiers, of whom a majority are from other States.
An unusually large amount is to remain on interest, and in case of death some have directed that the money shall revert to the State. More than half the men have made allotments, and the amount each two months will be over $8500."
The following is the roster of the regiment:-
Colonel-Norwood P. Hallowell, of Cambridge. 
Lieutenant Colonel-Alfred S. Hartwell, of Natick.
Major-Charles B. Fox, of Dorchester.
Surgeon-W. S. Brown, of Boston.
Assistant Surgeon-B. G. Wilder, of Newton.
Chaplain-Wm. Jackson, of New Bedford.
Adjutant-Wm. P. Hallowell, of Boston. 
Quartermaster-George Mussey, of Edgartown.
Captains-Wm. Nutt, of Natick; Wheelock Pratt, of Stirling; Sigourney Wales, of Dedham; Robert J. Hamilton, of Springfield; Charles E. Grant, of Boston; Charles C. Soule, of Brookline; John Gordon, of Exeter, N. H.; Wm. D. Crane, of Boston; Charles P. Bowditeh, of Boston; Frank Goodwin, of Boston. 
First Lieutenants-George M. Woodward, of Worcester; Harrison Holt, of Andover; Edward S. Stimpson, of Salem; Dennis H. Jones, of Boston; William H. Torrey, of Foxboro’; Wyllys Gannet, of St. Louis,. Mo.; Robertson James, of Newport, R. I..; James D.Thurber, of Plymouth; John O. Morey, of Athol; Ephraim A. Wood, of Chelsea.
Second Lieutenants-Leonard C. Alden, of Cambridge; Thomas L. Harman, of Cambridge; Ezekiel Fowler, of Amesbury; John H. Kingston, of Lexington, Ky.; Wm. D. Messenger, of Peterboro’, N. Y.; George T. Garrison, of Boston; Joseph F. Nichols, of Royalston; Winthrop T. Boynton, of Boston; Leonard B. Perry, of Nahant.

THE SHOOTING OF THE SOLDIER AT REEDVILLE.
The matter of the shooting of Benjamin Hayes, a private in Co. I,. of the 55th (colored) regiment, at Camp Meigs, Readville, Saturday morning, by Lieut. Kingston, the officer of the guard, was investigated by Brig. Gen. Pierce, the post commandant, and it was conclusively shown that the man Hayes had not only refused to obey orders to go into the guard-house, but had struck the officer before he was shot. Under these circumstances,. Gen. Pierce ordered Lieut. Kingston to rejoin his company in camp. At last accounts, Hayes was alive, but his injury may prove fatal, He has been a most troublesome man in the regiment, and has been many times in the guard-house for his violent conduct.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES..
A PROCLAMATION.
It has pleased Almighty God to hearken to the supplication and prayers of an afflicted people, and to vouchsafe to the army and navy of the United States, on the land and on the sea, victories so signal and so effective as to furnish reasonable ground for augmented confidence that the Union of these States will be maintained, their Constitution preserved, and their peace and prosperity permanently secured. But these victories have been accorded not without sacrifices of life, limb and liberty, incurred by brave, patriotic and loyal citizens. Domestic affliction in every part of the country follows in the train of those fearful bereavements. It is meet and right to recognize and confess the presence of the Almighty Father, and the power of His hand, equally in those triumphs and those sorrows.
Now, therefore, be it known, that I do set apart Thursday, the sixth day of August next, to be observed as a day of National Thanksgiving, praise and prayer; and I invite the people of the United States to assemble on that occasion in their customary places of worship, and in the forms approved by their own conscience, render the homage due to the Divine Majesty for the wonderful things he has done in the nation’s behalf, and invoke the influence of His Holy Spirit to subdue the anger which has produced and so long sustained a needless and cruel rebellion; to change the hearts of the insurgents, to guide the counsels of the government with wisdom adequate to so great a national emergency, and to visit with tender care and consolation, throughout the length and breadth of our land, all those who, through the vicissitudes of marches, voyages, battles and sieges, have been brought to suffer in mind, body, or estate and family, to lead the whole nation, through paths of repentance and submission to the Divine Will, back to the perfect enjoyment of union and fraternal peace.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed,..
Done at the city of Washington, this 15th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the independence of the United States of America the eighty-eighth.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
Gen. Meade sends to Washington thirty-one of the regimental battle-flags captured at the late battles of Gettysburg. Thirteen of these were taken from Virginia Infantry regiments, four from North Carolina regiments, two from Georgia regiments, one from an Alabama, one from a Mississippi, and one; from a Florida regiment, and nine were from regiments whose States were not known. These facts, and many others that have appeared from time to time, go to show that the bulk of Lee’s army is made up of Virginians and North Carolinians. The greater part of the rebel army of the Southwest, comprising the regiments raised in the States of Mississippi and Alabama, and the States west of the Mississippi river, has been captured as prisoners of war by General Grant and Banks. The army of Gen. Bragg is composed mainly of regiments, from Tennessee, Georgia; and Kentucky, with others from the Gulf States; but a large part of the Tennesseeans and Kentuckians deserted lately when he fell back into Georgia. All the rebel armies are in a very bad way at present.
The terrible disappointment felt at the escape of the rebel army from the Maryland shore need not be denied. When we consider that the Government sent Gen. Meade every man at its command, until he was obliged to cry "hold, enough," knowing full well that he outnumbered the rebel forces three to one, and when we consider, too, that our army had the rebels in a space of three by four miles, with the Potomac on every side but one, there are just causes for grievous, bitter disappointment, over their escape,-to say nothing of the hair breadth character which it has just developed. A single bridge in the rebel rear, and with our army strong beyond all belief in the rebel front, we hung on the dalliance of hope flushed with a victory, that we should capture them all, after the Mississippi fashion, and thus end the rebellion, and become heroes in a single day. And so the coiling Anaconda process went on until we actually squeezed the rebel forces into the Virginia shore. Who is responsible? comes the cry from a thousand tongues of a certain portion of the public, for vengeance on some one must be poured out ad nauseam, if we mean to keep up the popular style.
Cincinnati. July 21. The Gazette’s Vicksburg correspondent says that during the campaign of 64 days, ending with the capture of Viksburg, the rebels lost in killed and wounded and prisoners 43,700 men. About 71.000 stand of arms were taken, including nearly 50,000 Enfield rifles in their original packages, which were intended for the rebel army across the Mississippi, and 230 pieces of artillery.
CAPTURE OF YAZOO CITY. Yazoo City, which was held by about 800 rebels, was captured by the Federals under General Herron on the 13th. 250 prisoners were captured. The gunboat DcKalb, which accompanied the expedition, was blown up by torpedoes, and sunk in shallow water. She will be raised. No lives were lost. The rebels burnt three of their transports, lying above the city, and some eight or ten large steamers up the Yazoo.
The great proportion of the recent successes of the Union arms is illustrated by the numbers of the rebel forces placed hors du combat since July 1. The total number killed, wounded and made prisoners in two weeks, exceeds 80,000,. or nearly one-third of the effective rebel armies. We have now as prisoners or on parole over seventy thousand rebel prisoners of war. Against this they hold or have released on parole about fifteen thousand not yet exchanged.
Surgeon, General Hammond, just returned from Gettysburg, says that the most cruel act of the rebels within remembrance was the leaving of 11.000 rebel wounded with only six rebel surgeons to attend to them. Great suffering has been endured by these unfortunate men., so barbarously deserted by the chivalry of the South.
FORTRESS MOXROE, July 17. Yesterday afternoon the rebel General Fitzhugh Lee, and Capt. Winder were removed from the McClellan Hospital to Fortress Monroe, and placed in a casement under ground, and notice was sent to the rebel government that if they executed Capts. Sawyer and Flynn, whom they now have in close confinement and under sentence at Richmond, that Gen. Lee and Capt Winder will be executed in retaliation.
CAPTURE OF GEN. NEAL DOW. The New York Times’ correspondent says that Gen. Dow was supposed, at headquarters, to have been long since on his way home, but that instead he was stopping at the house of a Mrs. Cage, a "Union" lady, who has a husband and two or three relatives in the rebel army; and it was to her house that he was leisurely returning on the 30th June, when he was snatched up by; guerillas.
AID FOR COLORED SUFFERERS. Upwards of $7000 has been raised in New York for the colored sufferers by the late riot. Several distinguished legal gentle men have volunteered their services to such as were despoiled of their property, in prosecuting claims for reimbursement against the city.
<c03>
THE ARCHBISHOP CALLS.
The following appeared over New York, as a poster last week, two feet by three:
ARCHBISHOP HUGHES TO THE MEN OF NEW YORK, WHO ARE NOW CALLED IN MANY OF THE PAPERS RIOTERS: Men, I am not able, owing to rheumatism in my limbs, to visit you, but that is not a reason why you should not pay me a visit in your whole strength. Come then, to-morrow, Friday, at 2 o'clock to my residence, north-west corner of Madison avenue and Thirty-sixth street. I shall have a speech prepared for you. There is abundant space for the meeting around my house. I can address you from the corner of the balcony. If I should be unable to stand during its delivery, you will permit me to address you sitting; my voice is much stronger than my limbs. I take upon myself the responsibility of assuring you that in paying me this visit, or in retiring from it, you shall not be disturbed by any exhibition of municipal or military presence. You who are Catholics, or as many of you as are, have a right to visit your Bishop without molestation.
JOHN HUGHES.
New York, July 16, 1863. Archbishop of New York.
In compliance with this invitation, some four or five. thousand of the "so called rioters "assembled in front of the Archbishop’s residence, at the time specified, and were addressed by him., in the following extraordinary manner:-
Men of New York: They call you rioters, but I cannot see a riotous face among you. I will call you men of New York, not gentlemen, because gentlemen is so threadbare a term that it means nothing positive. Give, me men, for I know of my own knowledge that if this city were invaded by a British or any foreign power, (laughter,) the delicate ladies of New York, with infants on their breasts, would look for their protection from men more-than from gentlemen. (Applause.) That is no reason why you should not be gentlemen. (Applause.) That is no reason why you should not be gentlemen, for there is no real difference between these terms. (Applause.) I address you of my own choice, and I would do so if I had to go on crutches. (Cheers.) My lungs are stronger, than my limbs.
It gratifies me that you have met in peace and good; order here at this time. I do not address you as president, (laughter,) or mayor, or as a military officer. I address you as your father. (Cheers.) I am not going to go into the question what has brought about this unhappy state of things. It is not my business, for I am a minister of God. You know I never deserted you. (Cheers, and cries of "Never.") With my tongue and pen I have stood by you in years past. I am not a runaway bishop. (Laughter.) It perhaps is a calamity, but I have never been conscious of fear till the danger was over. I could not fight for you or with you; but I could stand by you, and die with you. (Cheers.) I cannot go into what caused this state of things. I know of no people on earth who have not had their grievances. ("That’s so.") A change is not an improvement, necessarily.
When I cast my eyes back to the land of my nativity, and when I think of its oppressions, when I see the fertile west and south of Ireland depopulated, and cattle browsing on the ruins of the cottages of the noble people who had lived there, I thank God that I came to a country where no such oppression exists. (Cheers.) If you are Irishmen, as your enemies say the rioters are, I am an Irishman, but not a rioter (Laughter.) If you are Catholics, as they have reported, probably to hurt my feelings, then I-am a Catholic too. (Cheers.) I know, under misguidance of real or imaginary evils, the people will get uneasy sometimes, and I do think that every man has his troubles-for I have my troubles, too-but I think with ‘the poet, it is better to bear our slight inconveniences than to rush on evils that we have not yet witnessed. (Cheers.) In Europe, where the countries call themselves constitutional, a fool or a wise man must occupy the throne. (Laughter.) There is nothing for an oppressed populace there but revolution. Now revolution is a terrible thing. In this country, the Constitution gives the right to the people to make a revolution every four years. You know what they do. They fire paper bullets.
Were you ever in Rome? Walking toward the Corso, the people there send off bullets-bullets of flowers at each other. But in this country the government is a foundation not to be destroyed. It is the right of the people every four years to correct or amend, as the printers say, the superstructure. But let them preserve the foundation, and let the American people build the superstructure every four years. Take away the foundation, and what have you to cling to? I am too old now to go to another country. I want the housekeepers to mind. (A voice-"Let the niggers keep South.") Everything is in the hands of the supreme" people of the United States; and the majority of them, whether they make a blunder or not, I am willing to be governed by. Now, gentlemen, (laughter,) I am nearly done. There is one thing more. I ask you your counsel; you will give it to me; are you willing from me, as Archbishop of New York, to hear my counsel? I have not seen a single countenance that I would set down as that of a rioter. Then, is this business to go on? Is not every man in his own modest way to become a preserver of the peace? I am told in the papers that not a little property has been destroyed. I remember the anecdote of the lady who said to her child, "Come, my darling, come with me to church." The child answered, "What’s the use, mamma?" Now, if property is destroyed, I ask you the same question-what is the use? It must be paid for by you and by me. If property is lost, it can be repaired or restored. But who can bring back an immortal soul? In the case of a violent and unjust assault on you without provocation, my notion is that every man has a right to defend his house or his shanty at the risk of his life. (Cheers.) The cause, however, must be just. It must not be aggressive or offensive. Do you want my advice? ("Yes.") I have been hurt by the reports that you are rioters. You cannot imagine that I could hear these things without being pained grievously. Is there no way by which you can stop these proceedings and support the laws, of which none have been enacted against any of you as Irishmen and Catholics? You have suffered already. No government can stand or protect itself, unless it protects its citizens. Military force will be let loose on you. The innocent will be shot down, and the guilty likely to escape. Would it not be better for you to retire quietly? I do not ask you to give up your principles or convictions (cheers), but to keep out of the crowd, where immortal souls are launched into eternity. Would it not be better? There is one thing in which I would ask your advice. When these so-called riots are laid on Irish Catholics, I wish you to tell me in what country I could claim to be born. (Voices, "Ireland.") Yes, but what do you say if these stories be true? Ireland never committed a single act of cruelty, unless in opposition to oppression. Ireland has been the mother of heroes and of poets, but never the mother of cowards. When the first apostle St. Patrick went to Ireland, he was preceded by Polladorns, and they listened to him as you now patiently listen to me. The soil of Ireland was never soiled by a single drop of martyr’s blood. It would touch me deeply to have you here reverse that record. Ireland produces idiots, but the delicacy of feeling is such there that they call such persons "Innocents." (Laughter.) When the poor boy or girl is in that way, such an one is not accountable. There was one of them who was a boy, and sometimes he took raw eggs; not as fresh as they might be. (Laughter.) At one time he ate chickens, which cried out in his throat-but he replied: "I am very sorry, but you have spoke too late; I am very sorry." I think of the noble people who have been exiled from Ireland, the Field Master Nugent, and the O’Donnels of Spain-I know most of the colleges have been established by the sons of Ireland. I know the blood of your brothers has filled the fields of Balaklava and India-I think of the government which has persecuted them-leaving nothing for them but the United States. I think of this, and the policy of John Bull, replacing a noble population by a set of fat bullocks, (laughter,) and I pray that you may not be wanting in gratitude to the country of your adoption. I took upon myself to cay that you should not be molested in paying me a visit. (Cheers.) I thank you for your kindness, (applause,) and I hope nothing will occur till you return home, and if by chance you see a police or military man, just look at him. (Cheers and laughter.)
At the conclusion of the Archbishop’s speech, and after he had retired from the balcony, the vociferous calls of the immense throng for his reappearance induced his Grace again to present himself. Deafening cheers greeted him, and as he stood, bowing his acknowledgments, it was not a difficult matter to see the strong hold which the venerable prelate had in the hearts of the men who rallied to his invitation. Not yet satisfied with the demonstration, and still anxious to exhibit their profound respect, they in the most respectful manner solicited his paternal benediction. To ask was but to receive, and appearing at the window f his library, where he was again received with the most tumultuous applause, he pronounced his benediction, every one with uncovered head receiving it, making at the same time the sign of the cross. Once more the Archbishop exhorted them to repair immediately to their homes, and with a lusty "We will," they wended their ways to their respective domiciles. In a few moments the crowded streets and avenues wore their usual tranquil aspect.
EMANCIPATION IN GUIANA. By a decree of the Government of Holland, fifty thousand slaves in Dutch Guiana were made freemen on the 1st of July. So the world moves on towards freedom. In the Southern States alone are men in this age seeking to establish a Government with slavery as its corner-stone. We are fighting to-day the battle of freedom against a race of men that are behind Guiana, behind Algiers, behind every part of the civilized world in the great march of human liberty. The great rebellion is the death-throe of human bondage.
<c04>
THE WEEK OF RIOTS.
Last week will be forever memorable, not only for the bloody specimens of mob reign in the great commercial metropolis of the country, and the concurrent attempts to install the Lord of Misrule King in other places, but for the ultimate and certain triumph of law and order. Boston put a speedy quietus to the incendiary and traitorous efforts of the anarchists, and New York has been taught a lesson which will have a wholesome effect upon her future well-being and prosperity.
During Thursday night, the riot reached its climax in New York, and since that time the process of restoring order has been progressing surely. The acts of atrocity committed by the rioters have no parallel in this country, and have hardly been exceeded in any other. Outrages scarcely to be expected of fiends have been perpetrated, and brutalities committed certainly not comparable to any thing in history but to those inhuman barbarities at which we shudder while perusing the annals of our early Indian wars. Below we give a few of the multitudinous incidents connected with this fiendish outbreak:
A small party of vagabonds stopped the cars of the Fourth avenue line near Nineteenth street, yesterday morning, and rifled the conductors and passengers of their money and valuables.
Fifty-four persons, wounded in the three days’ riot, have been received at Bellevue Hospital. Of this number, twenty-five have died. Most of them were rioters.
Between nine and ten o’clock on Wednesday night, a mob formed in the upper part of Jersey City, and marched down the avenue in a body. Arriving in front of the City Hall, they were addressed by Mayor Romar, R. D. McClellan, and the Rev. Father Kelly, all of whom advised them to go home and refrain from any acts of violence. The greater portion of the assemblage then dispersed. Nearly all of the colored people left the city during the day.
The house of Mr. J. D. Dix, in East Thirtieth street, was gutted soon after midnight, yesterday, by a gang of robbers, who first demanded money to resist the conscription. The inmates escaped through the scuttle to a neighbor’s house.
Ex-U. S. Marshal Rynders applied to Gen. Sand-ford, yesterday, for a sufficient number of arms to protect his house against the violence of the rioters. The General did not accede to his request, but informed him as to the proper steps to be taken for the protection of his domicile.
Wall street presents a warlike appearance. At the Custom House, the sailors of several war vessels have cannon loaded and ready. The gunboat in the stream, commanding a range of the whole street, is also ready,. The Sub-Treasury building is strongly guarded by the 65th (Buffalo) regiment. The "pickets" extend to the steps on Wall Street, and opposite the Pine street entrance. The Organ Battery of twenty-five guns is in a position to fire, together with a loaded Dahlgren piece.
Louis Levy’s clothing store. No. 847 Third avenue, was emptied late on Wednesday night, and about $1,800 in money was taken. The robbers on leaving fired the building, but the neighbors put out the fire.
A white gentleman (the son of a missionary,) born in the East Indies, but educated in this country, said, when he saw the rioters yesterday, "I am proud of the heathen."
An Irish woman informed her mistress yesterday, that she "need not expect the riot was over, for the rioters had the promise of help from the city of Baltimore, if they would only hold out a little longer."
A woman living at the corner of Thirty-second street and second avenue was warned, on Tuesday, by the rioters, to leave, because her husband was a Black Republican. She accordingly began moving, on Wednesday, unassisted, her husband being away in the country. Some women attacked her while doing this, beat her, tore her hair, and divided her property.
A grog-seller, named Cruise, was arrested in the morning at No. 11 Thomas street, and locked up in the tombs. He was seen giving straw and matches to gangs of boys, and directing them to go to the negro houses on Thomas street, saying, "Burn down the cribs of the d-d niggers."
On Twenty-second street, between the First and Second avenues, a soldier was shot by the rioters., He fell dead in the street about 5 o’clock, and was left lying on the sidewalk as late-as 7 o’clock in the evening. About this hour, three or four platoons of soldiers passed up. Third avenue, and marched down Twenty-second street. Arriving at the spot where the body of the soldier lay, they halted, took it up, and were about to proceed, when, some disturbance, occurring, a man was bayoneted by a soldier. The military passed on.
Superintendent Kennedy was at the Central office, yesterday. His face is lacerated in every square inch of its surface, and very badly bruised. He stated to our reporter that his body was in the same condition, but his voice and action display all his wonted fire. The report that a number of the New York seventh have been killed is contradicted. The mob have a wholesome fear of this regiment, and retire before them as they advance.
The most serious loss of life on the part of the military occurred in the New York 9th, in which, on Wednesday night, Capt. Ukell, Lieut. Brown and fifteen privates were killed, and Col. Jardine and Lieut. Upton wounded. Col. Jurdine’s situation is very critical.
ATTACKS ON NEGROES. About 7 o’clock A. M., a negro driving a horse and wagon went to the Thirty-fourth street ferry to cross the East River, and was pursued by a savage mob, who stoned him from his seat as he approached the ferry. He took refuge in the water-closet of the ferry-house, but was soon discovered, dragged forth, and beaten almost to death. The mob then threw the negro into the river, and as he re-covered sensibility and strove to keep his head above water, beat him down with stones and sticks until he sank. The horse and wagon they of course stole.
About 1 o’clock, a number of negroes were attacked in Broad street, and driven into the halls and cellars by a mob. They were soon rescued by the police, and brought to the Station House for protection.
At an early hour yesterday morning, a mob caught a colored man near pier No. 5 North River, and cut his throat. The negro was thrown into the river, and the mob, supposing him dead, went their way. The negro, however, was an excellent swimmer, and was not dead. He reached the net work of the dock, and remained there till sunrise, where he was picked up by the police boat. When the officer (McClusky) approached him, he was, as he lay inside the dock, armed with a stone.
The negroes have entirely disappeared from the docks. Many of them, it is said, have been killed, and thrown into the river. One of the Longshoremen reported that he saw yesterday morning in West street a notice bearing the inscription, "$100 re-ward for a negro."
Last night, as a company of soldiers was moving down to the fire on 27th street, a negro, with his clothes nearly torn from his back, frantically rushed up 7th Avenue, and in his frenzy threw himself against the Captain of the company, as it was marching down, with the most distressing cries.
In the darkness, the Captain was unable to distinguish who and what he was, or to imagine his motive or purpose, and he struck the poor fellow a blow with his sabre, inflicting a severe wound upon his head, and felling him to the ground.
He was at once brought to the Arsenal, when it was discovered that he was a raving maniac, growing out of the intense excitement which had surrounded him and the other colored population for the last three or four days, and against which he was unable to maintain his mental balance. His wounds were dressed, and up to 4 o’clock this morning, he still continued wandering about within the iron railings that surround the arsenal, utterly crazed. He was evidently a fugitive from some Southern State, as he addressed all who spoke to him as "massa."
At 1 o’clock, yesterday, the garrison of the Seventh avenue arsenal witnessed a sad and novel sight. Winding slowly along 34th street into Seventh avenue, headed by a strong police force, came the little colored orphans, whose asylum had been burned down on Monday night. The boys, from two and three to fifteen years of age, followed by little girls of the same ages, to-the number of about two hundred each, trotted along, and were halted in front of the arsenal.
Then came a large number of men and women, several having babes in their arms, who had been forced to seek refuge in adjacent station houses from the fury of the mob. Most of them carried small bundles of clothing and light articles of furniture, all they had been-able to save from the wreck of their property. The negroes who hadhail sought safety under the guns of the arsenal were then taken out, and ordered to join their friends outside. The procession was then re-formed, and headed by the police, marched back again down 35th street to the North river.
A strong detachment of Hawkins’ Zouaves guarded the flanks of the procession, while a company of the 10th New York volunteers and asquad of police closed up the rear. Col. Wm. Meyer had command of the escort, and on arriving at the pier, where a numerous crowd had followed them, he placed his men, with fixed bayonets, facing the people to keep them in check, and the negroes were all safely embarked and conveyed to Ricker’s Island.
The poor negroes have had a hard time. Finding they were to be slaughtered indiscriminately, they have hid themselves in cellars, garrets, and have endeavored, under cover of darkness, to flee to neighboring places. The Elysian Fields, over in Hoboken, has been a pretty safe refuge for them, as there are but few Irish living in that city. They have a sort of improvised camp there, composed mainly of women and children.
Monday night was certainly to be remembered by thousands of our up-town citizens. Your correspond-
<c05>
dent crossed East river at 10 o’clock, at which time the Orphan Asylum and some half-dozen other buildings were burning. It was a scene to be remembered for years. The yells of the mob could be heard on board the ferry boat, sounding like voices from hell, and the crowd on the boat listened and gazed at the lightened clouds and flickering flames in silence, not knowing whether those standing near were friends or foes.
Refugees are numerous at the hotels, and in Brooklyn. Hundreds of families took refuge in the hotels, glad to get themselves and children to a place of safety, leaving their homes vacant, perhaps to return and find a heap of ruins. Among the refugees at the Astor House was James Hale, Esq., formerly of Boston, and many years ago connected with the Advertiser. Col. Howe also removed his family from his residence in Gramercy Park to St. Nicholas Hotel, Sergeant Terry, with a squad of volunteers from the New England Rooms, fully armed, garrisoning the premises. Threats were made against Col. Howe’s residence, because he was the State Agent of Massachusetts, but Massachusetts soldiers stood ready there, as they had stood on the battle-field, to protect all the State Agent’s property.
The New England Rooms were two or three times hooted by a few noisy fellows about dark on Wednesday evening, but nobody appeared scared thereat, although there were but two well men in the institution. The howitzer was, however, brought down, placed at the head of the stairs, loaded with canister, -forty rifles were loaded and stacked-(no blank cartridges)-and a half -dozen lame and wounded soldiers slept near them all night.
One of the most distressing sights possible for a person to witness is the group of about thirty colored people congregated at the corner of the arsenal on 7th Avenue, as being the only place where they feel any assurance of personal safety. They are mostly women, and many of them old and infirm. Some have been there since Monday night last, with scarcely enough to eat, and yet patiently bearing their sufferings and making no complaint, and only expressing their gratitude that they have even this poor place of safety. They have no place to lie down, but have arranged boards on the sidewalk, upon which they are seated side by side, awaiting the hour of the deliverance of the city from the hands of the mob.
A gang of ruffians attacked the house of James S. Gibbons, Esq. (son in-law of the late Isaac T. Hopper,) in Lamartine Place, 29th street, because, as was falsely alleged, "Horace Greeley boarded there." They broke in the windows and doors, and completely gutted the house, throwing into the street books and furniture, which were immediately seized upon by the crowd without, and borne away piecemeal. Soon after these acts had been consummated, a detail of about fifty soldiers and thirty policemen appeared on the ground and marched through the street, clearing it of all obstructions. The rioters afterwards returned for the purpose of firing the house, but were repulsed.
The attacks upon the colored people of Brooklyn continue. They are not safe anywhere. They are driven from their homes, and it is no unusual sight to see women and helpless children in search of some place of refuge, followed by crowds of idle men and boys. There were reports yesterday, that attacks were expected upon the colored citizens of Wellsville, a village near the boundaries of the Ninth Ward. The residents of that neighborhood at once look precautionary measures, by procuring arms and organizing so as to be prepared for events.
The New York Herald appears to have been apprehensive that the mob would miss some of its victims, or overlook some place where the property of the United States was stored. It therefore volunteered the following information:-
"There is but one quarter where these unfortunates, The Blacks, live, which has remained unharmed-Sullivan Street, in the Eighth Ward. There is an United States storehouse in Worth street, where there are upwards of fifty thousand muskets."
FIENDISHNESS OF THE RIOTERS. Facts are every day coming to light showing the unutterable fiendishness of the ruffians who have desolated and disgraced the city during the week. A funeral procession was passing down Second Avenue on Tuesday last, and when near Nineteenth street it was stopped by a gang of rioters, who ordered the driver of the hearse to turn back. He expostulated with them, telling them that he had a corpse in the hearse. "Throw the corpse into the street," cried the ruffians, and suiting the action to the word, they seized the coffin, pitched it into the street, and compelled the hearse and carriage drivers to flee for their lives. The father of the deceased and one or two of his friends returned to the spot at great risk, picked up the coffin, which was lying in the gutter, and carried it to a place of safety. The corpse remained unburied till Friday.
THE CITY ON FRIDAY-INCIDENTS, ETC. About 9 o’clock Friday morning, as Capt. J. H. Howell, of the 3d N. Y. Artillery., U. S. V., was passing up the Seventh Avenue to Thirty-second street, in his private carriage, to examine the Wednesday’s scene of action, a gang of six or eight of the rioters, spying his uniform, cried out, "There’s the man who fired on us here: let’s hang him."
The outcry which they made soon swelled the crowd to about fifty, who at once made a rush upon the carriage, and ordered the driver to stop. Capt. H. drew his revolver, and told the driver to turn down Thirty-first street at once, or he would shoot him.
The mob then stoned the carriage, breaking the windows and pannels. One of the missiles struck an old wound in the Captain’s side, paralyzing his arm for a few moments. The driver started on a gallop as directed, the crowd, with yells and shouts, pursuing the vehicle. Capt. H. fired five shots from the back window of the carriage into the midst of the crowd, emptying his revolver; which had the effect of halting the mob until the carriage got beyond their reach.
Mr. Thomas J. Byrne, Enrolling Officer of the Town of Westchester, was absent from his house in Unionport on Wednesday, he having been fired upon twice by a mob on Monday. The mob visited his house, injured his family, and destroyed all his furniture. The mob seized his little babe, and debated about killing it, but finally gave it up to its mother. 
Several rioters were arrested in Troy, and placed in jail. On Thursday morning, the mob demanded their release. The request was complied with. May or Van Alstyne claims that he had not the necessary force to resist the rioters.
John Morrissey, the pugilist, saved the Troy House from the mob. The rioters wished to make a demonstration on the colored waiters. Mr. Morrissey had the pluck to prevent it.
WHITE PLAINS, N. Y., July 15, 1863. 
All telegraphs, railroads, and railroad bridges are torn up and destroyed. The rioters, 300 in number, have torn up the railroad and burned the depot at Williamsburg. They are marching to White Plains, to go to Tarrytown to destroy the Provost Marshal’s office there.
THE RIOT AT PORTSMOUTH. A correspondent at Portsmouth, N. H., says:-
"Extensive preparations had been made to give the rioters a further warm reception on Friday evening, but cold lead does not seem to set well on their stomachs, and they failed to ‘come to time.’ At the present writing, ‘all is quiet on the Piscataqua.’"
The mob was composed principally of Irishmen, women and children, headed by ten or a dozen Americans.
DISCOVERY OF A LOT OR SECRETED BULLETS. This morning, at 7 o’clock, a colored man saw a white man lurking around City wharf. North Charles street, in a suspicious manner, and upon cautiously approaching the place, discovered a lot of minnie balls wrapped in a piece of canvas, and stowed away in a hole in the sea wall. He gave notice at the third police station, and officers who were sent with him conveyed the plunder to the station house. The bundle was found to weigh 400 pounds, and had probably been brought in a boat from the Cambridge Arsenal.-Boston Herald.
GOV. SEYMOUR’S "IMMEDIATE CONSTITUENTS." For the amount of property destroyed by the New York mob, the city is, by law, responsible. The Common Council of New York, knowing this fact, have had the mingled impudence and cowardice to vote $2,500,000 to the rioters to exempt them from the operations of a law of the United States. What a city!
SOFT. The New York World speaks of the riots in New York as a "tremendous uprising of the laboring population." The Boston Courier alludes to certain published statements as showing "the deep feeling which possesses the rioters, and, however misguided by those feelings, distinguish them in a marked degree from any European mob." Plundering and burning stores, sacking dwelling houses, inhumanly beating and murdering the defenceless, and committing every nameable crime, are some of the evidences, we presume, of these "deep-feeling "and "misguided" rioters.-Journal.
REBEL EXULTATION. The Richmond Enquirer, of the 16th, is exultant over the "beginning of chaos" at the North as exemplified by riot, murder and conflagration in New York It wonders that "this good work did not commence long ago," and adds: "This excellent outbreak may be the opening scene of the inevitable revolution which is to tear to pieces the most rotten society, and leave the Northern half of the old American Union a desert of blood-soaked ashes." In bidding the work good speed, the Enquirer says:-
"This one insurrection may be suppressed for the moment, but it will be the parent of other and still worse convulsions. We have but to persevere in our determined resistance, gird ourselves to the task of winning our independence more steruly than ever, yet a little while, and we shall see the giant but hollow bulk of the Yankee nation bursting into fragments, and rushing down into perdition in flames and blood. Amen!"
<c06>
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR THE COLORED REGIMENTS.
I have received in aid of the Massachusetts Colored Volunteers, not heretofore acknowledged, the following sums, VIZ:
H. Tollman & Co...$25 00
Ladies’ Fugitive Aid Soc. of New Bedford, 10 00
James E. Oliver,..15 00
Mrs. De Mortie,...2 00
Com. of Colored Young Ladies of Boston, 58 20
Miss Ware,.... 1 00
Tute, Brackett & Co., 10 00
Miss M. G. Chapman,.. 5 00
Charles Richardson,.., 10 00
Mrs. Samuel Dow, 5 00
Pond & Duneklee, 60 00
Alden Sampson, 0 50
Claflin, Seville & Co., 10 00
Geo. Wm. Bond, 20 00
Louisa C. Bond, 20 00
Sophia E. Bond, 5 00
Maria L. Bond, 5 00
Mrs. C. M. Severance, 5 00
Geo. Adams, 5 00
Also, for the Band of the 54th Regiment,
From G. Howland Shaw,. -50 00
John C. Howe, -. 5 00
And for the Band of the 55th Regiment,
From Misses Bowditch and Fox, -72 00
From the Ladies’ Fugitive Aid Society of New Bedford,. 31 towels, 24 hdkfs., 31 cotton bags.
Miss Henrietta Sargent, 4 dozen hdks., 3 1-2 dozen ration bags, 7 dozen needle cases., 1 1-2 dozen socks.
Fraternity Benevolent Sewing Circle, socks, needle cases, pin-balls.
Miss Frances Sargent, 20 ration bags.
Mrs. J. F. Goodwin, 6 pair socks.
Miss M. G. Chapman, 1 dozen linen hdkfs.
Rev. Mr. Hall’s Society, Dorchester, 245 towels, sewing bags.
Mrs. Cowing, pin-cases.
Mrs. Joslin, socks.
Mrs. Franklin King, 9 pair socks.
Mrs. Cornelius Cowing, ration bags.
Misses McFarland, 3 pair socks.
Nash, Spaulding & Co., 1 bbl. Molasses.
The expenses of the Band for the 55th Regiment will be about $550, of which sum the Committee hare have received but $72, leaving nearly $500 yet to be provided for.
J. H. STEPHENSON, Treasurer for the Committee.
12 Arch Street, July 13, 1863.
Special thanks are due to J. H. Stephenson, Esq for his disinterested and efficient services as Treasurer in behalf of the 54th and 55th Regiments. We are requested to inform the friends and well-wishers of those Regiments, that further pecuniary donations are needed to meet the expenses incurred in fitting them out.-[ED.
A PICTURE FOR THE TIMES.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, a well-executed photograph of a remarkable drawing by Mr. Carlton, one of our resident artists, called "Watch-Meeting, Dec. 31, 1862-Waiting for the Hour"-representing a scene "way down South in Dixie," on last New Year’s Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln’s proclamation of the 22d of September, shall make them "henceforth and for ever free." Large size, suitable for framing, $2.00. Second size, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.

THE "PEECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross wise and lengthwise-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photograph," says the New York Independent, "should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye." Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4,. P. M.
PROF. NOYES WHEELER has located himself in New York City, and opened Rooms, No. 513 Sixth Avenue, where he intends to practise Medicine, in connection with., Phrenology and Physiology, make phrenological examinations, and heal the sick.

THE GREAT BATTLES OF GETTYSBUBG ALSO,
"WHAT I SAW IN TENNESSEE,"
BY EDMUND KIRKE.
THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE of Tuesday, July 7, contains forty eight columns of matter of unusual interest and variety, enough to make two good-sized volumes. Among these articles is the first of a series of Letters written, expressly for THE TRIBUNE, by "EDMUND KIRKE," author of "Among the Pines," entitled, "What I saw in Tennessee." Mr. "Kirke" has recently made a tour in the Southwest, and proposes to give in these letters an inside view of the Rebellion, for which his familiarity with Southern people and their habits, and his remarkable facility in describing them, eminently fit him. This first letter sets forth the character and portrays the enormities of the Rebellion with a vividness and power not hitherto reached by any other writer. A large portion of the sheet will be given up to a full account of the Battles of Gettysburg-the most intelligent, complete, and best-written narrative of the terrible fighting of last week that has been published, and written by our own correspondents, who were eye-witnesses to what they relate. The account will be brought down to the latest moment. It will contain also a review of the forth-coming work of Mrs. Frances Butler’-Life as she saw it on a Southern Plantation-embracing some long extracts from the book.

TERMS OF THE TRIBUNE.
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, 3 cents.
Mail Subscribers, one year (311 issues) $8.
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One copy, one year (104 issues) $3.
Two Copies, one year, $5.
Five Copies, once year,... $12.
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One Copy, one year, (52 issues) $2.
Three Copies, one year, $5.
Five Copies, one year, $8.
Ten Copies, one year, $15.
Any larger number, addressed to names of subscribers, $1.50 each. An extra copy will be sent to every club of ten.
Twenty Copies, to one address, one year, $25, and any larger number at same price. An extra copy will be sent! to clubs of twenty. Any person who will send, us a club of thirty or over shall receive The Semi-Weekly Tribune gratis.
Address THE TRIBUNE,
Tribune Buildings, New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."

MADAME CARTEAUX BANISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
There she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. She is sure to cure in cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from <illegible> grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing broad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.

A SHORT TRIP ON THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD.
On the 25th of November, I called to see my handsome young friend John, and found him in a quandary, and somewhat excited, owing to his having learned, a short time previously, that a family of fugitive slaves, who had recently escaped from Maryland, and were lodged in the city, were in danger of capture, the kidnappers having discovered their whereabouts. 
John is one of a thousand, a boy full of generous sympathies, especially in behalf of the poor and oppressed, and a thorough going abolitionist. He had already been in search of an intelligent and shrewd colored man, to get his advice as to what should be done, he having had much experience in conducting passengers over the underground railroad, but had not succeeded in finding him. No time was to be lost; if the fugitives were not placed out of danger that night, to-morrow they would be captured and returned to slavery, and doubtless severely punished for their audacity in preferring freedom, and taking it, without stopping to ask any questions.
It was then about eight o'clock in the evening. I at once volunteered my services, and we determined to do what we could to defeat the evil intentions of the kidnappers. We were joined by an elder brother of John, and we three started on the expedition. The night was cloudy, and therefore favorable. We went first to the house of the colored man above mentioned, knowing that he, better than any, could direct us. We rang the bell forcibly several times, but only succeeded in arousing the ire of a huge dog, and a little dog in the yard, who barked and yelped at us furiously. We inquired of one of the neighbors, who suggested that he might have gone to a church meeting. Off to the church we posted, towards the outskirts of the city, plunging into unknown mud-holes and gutters, and stumbling over rocks and posts, in the darkness, two of us coming down on our hands during the walk. If one travels at night in Washington anywhere off the principal streets, he does it at his own risk, and may count himself lucky if he gets through safe and whole-not reckoning mud and water as anything in the account. We saw the glimmer of the church-lights at last, and presently reached the door of the vestry, where a festival was in progress, the colored people enjoying themselves much after the manner of white people on similar occasions. Our friend was not there, where upon we made known the object we had in view to one or two of the elderly brethren, running the risk of their being true, and not exposing us or the man of whom we were in search. They could not or were not inclined to help us in any; way. We then returned to our friend's house, and again aroused the dogs, but found him not. What should be done? Our desire to see him was chiefly because we supposed he would assist us in secreting the fugitives in a secure place, until they could be sent North, and we knew of no such place ourselves. It was getting late, and it was quite uncertain when he might return, perhaps not at all that night, his family being away, as we knew. So we left the dogs to quiet themselves again, debating whether it would do to go and get the fugitives, who were one or two miles away, and bring them there, taking the chance of finding him on our return. This was not considered prudent. Just then the thought flashed into our mind that we might learn something to the point from Dr. B,-an ardent abolitionist, and an old resident of Washington, and well known for his efforts in behalf of the colored people. We hastened to his residence, and fortunately found him at home. We stated the case, and he and his wife were at once fired with enthusiasm. After they had consulted a little about ways and means, he put on his coat and hat, and proceeded with us to the house of an excellent colored family whom he knew. The good woman at the head of the family said she would do all she could-that her house was full, she having harbored for some time other fugitives from Maryland; there was a stable back in the yard, however, and a loft overhead, and they could go there. She explained to us the entrance at the gate, and the windings of the passage to the stable, so that we might go in understandingly when we should come again. The doctor advised us how to proceed, and bade us good night.
We then started for the Contraband Camp, away to the North of the city. After we quitted the gaslights, we had to depend on our instincts and familiarity with the road, rather than upon our eyes, in order to keep the track. A few drops came pattering down, and as we reached the entrance, it commenced to rain steadily. The Superintendent of the Camp was not aware of our intentions, and we did not wish him to be, as we did not wish to involve him unnecessarily, as it might bring him into trouble, in case he should be questioned afterwards. Maryland slave-owners who are professedly loyal have a legal right to search for their escaped slaves, and those who aid them in any way during their flight, or harbor them afterwards, are liable to certain penalties under the Fugitive Slave law. The Superintendent grants military protection to all who apply to him; but if the contrabands are from a loyal State, the law allows the owner, or his agent, the kidnapper, a warrant to search for them, and to take them back, unless the disloyalty of the owner can be distinctly shown at the time; and this power over-rides the military protection granted by the Superintendent. Dr. B-entertains the theory that, in the nature of things, a slave-owner cannot be loyal under any circumstances, and says that, consequently, he would advise any slave to swear, up and down, that his master was a secessionist. His enthusiasm on this point, and his emphatic gestures in illustrating it, during the walk above mentioned, amused us; and while we were not quite ready, perhaps, to accept his logic, we shared his feeling that slave owners have no rights in slaves which white or black men are bound to respect, the law and the, Government to the contrary, notwithstanding.
To return to our story. A friendly soldier, on guard, conducted us to the room in the long line of barracks occupied by those of whom we were in search. We knocked at the door, which was opened a little at first, and then more widely for our admittance, as soon as they recognized the soldier, who assured them some friendly persons had come to see them. A smoky stove, with the fire shining through the cracks, stood in the middle of the little room, and the sides were occupied with two beds and various bundles and bags of luggage. Two men and two women stood near the stove or sat upon the side of the beds, whereon and wherein were bestowed, as we were assured, nine children. We could see but dimly at first, until a candle was lighted, showing us more plainly the occupants and general features of the apartment. The fugitives seemed to be of the better class; their dress, though humble enough, indicated neatness, and their faces intelligence. Their story was soon told. They were all from the same neighborhood, in the vicinity of Frederick, Maryland. Thomas Green Dorsey and Rachel Dorsey were husband and wife, the former owned by a rebel, the latter a free woman, and their nine children variously owned by four sisters, to whom they had fallen by inheritance. George Brooks and Ann Brooks, brother and sister, were owned by another rebel, and Rias Carr by still another. They stoutly asserted the secession proclivities of their masters and mistresses, and their hatred of Yankees. A friendly Union woman, living in the vicinity, had aided them in their escape. They assembled at 12 o'clock at night, took a wagon owned by one of themselves, a horse form one of the masters, and another which they particularized as a "secesh horse," piled in their effects, such as could be transported, and themselves, fourteen in number, and drove away, and the next day, at noon, safely reached the Contraband Camp. Just as they were entering the enclosure, they recognized one of their masters, and he recognized them. He had come on horseback, and just overtook them at that moment. They, as contrabands, were safe for the time being, and he
<c02>
could not gain admittance without the customary legal form, and left to come again and enforce his claim. Shortly after, Thomas G. Dorsey was induced by one of the guard to drive the horse and wagon down into the city for the purpose of selling them, the guard on horseback accompanying-a most injudicious movement. Thomas was arrested, and committed to jail on the charge of stealing the horses, and the guard deserted him in time to save himself. It was afterwards ascertained that the master, who was on the watch, had procured the arrest. This would be the most convenient way of getting him back, as the Governor of the State could send a requisition for his return for "trial," whereas, if the master arrested him as a fugitive slave, the case would come into court here, and he might find it difficult to prove his loyalty, without which proof he could not reclaim his "property," and take it back.
The question now was, how to transport the women and children in safety to the hiding place which we had secured for them. It had been proposed that each of us three should take one-third of the number in charge, and the parties should start at different times, and, favored by the darkness and the lateness of the hour, run the risk of getting to the spot undiscovered. But when we saw how small were some of the children, who were now being aroused and dressed, and the quantity of luggage which the fugitives were possessed of, and of course desirous of taking with them, this plan was deemed impracticable. I then went to the office of the Superintendent, whom I was so fortunate as to find up, and asked him to lend me his large army wagon and horses for a short time, and to ask no questions. He had the good sense to comply with my request, and ordered it to be got ready at once. I returned to the cabin, and found the preparation of the children in active progress. The baby was being done up like a bundle, and was wrapped, and tied, and pinned, and turned over and over many times, all of which it endured in the most exemplary manner, never indicating the least dissent. Indeed, the quietness of all the children on being roused from their slumbers was most astonishing; not a cry nor a murmur escaped from one of them. I doubt if the same could be said of any nine white children under similar conditions. The oldest was apparently not over ten years. It reminded one of the old story in the New England Primer, of John Rogers's wife and her "nine small children, one at the breast." I believe it has never been satisfactorily settled to this day, whether the one last named made the ninth or tenth. As the father of that interesting family suffered martyrdom on account of his religious convictions, so in these days the father of these nine little contrabands is likely to prove a martyr to the love of liberty for himself and his dear ones, he having been returned to bondage, all efforts to save him having proved unavailing under the law.
The baby having been finally done up and laid aside on the bed, each of the other children underwent a final and hasty wrapping up in a large blanket or shawl, or was tied about the neck with a comforter or handkerchief. Albertis Dorsey seemed quite proud of his blanket, and walked about like an Indian chief, the end of it trailing on the ground. I asked one little fellow, in jacket and plaid trowsers, what his name was, and he said, "Mary Ann Dorsey." It appears that boys' garments were more plentiful than girls', and Mary Ann had been dressed accordingly. Ann Mary Dorsey wore a boy's cap, having no bonnet. John Thomas Dorsey distinguished himself by holding a candle in the middle of the room, and nearly setting everybody on fire. Martha Jane Dorsey, and Summerfield Dorsey, and Charles Wesley Dorsey, and Greenbay Singleton Dorsey, stood meekly by, staring out of their great round eyes, uttering not a word unless questioned by one of us. Ann Brooks, the other woman, made herself useful in tying up bags, and stuffing all sorts of things into a huge coffee pot, including a brush, broom and a pair of gloves, and she capped the climax by arraying herself in a soldier's blue coat and a calico sun-bonnet. The wagon came to the door, and the last preparations for removal were hurriedly made. It was a scene I shall never forget, and if it could be faithfully pictured on canvas, I should prize it more than a Madonna by Raphael, or a landscape by Claude Lorraine. The household goods were piled in, bags, bundles, feather bed, coffeepot and all, and then the children and the women, and lastly ourselves and the black driver, making a very good load for the two horses. They seemed, however, equal to the task, and did their part most faithfully.
It had been arranged that the two men should remain at the cabin over night, and at daylight the next morning be sent to one of the forts in the vicinity, where they could work for the Government, and be directly within the military lines, and, therefore, secure. We were to let them know when an arrangement should be made for the transportation of the party to Philadelphia, where they have friends. As we were leaving, one of the men confided to our keeping a large old-fashioned silver watch, to be restored to him at some future time. We did not question him as to where he got it, but concluded that if it were his master's when he took French leave of that worthy gentleman, he had doubtless earned the value of it so many times, without any recompense, that he had about as good a right to it as the master, especially as the latter was a rebel.
The good byes were said, and we drove out of the camp, extinguishing the candle as we left the gate. The driver began to wonder where the little bridge was, crossing a, ditch on the grounds. We begged him not to overturn us into the mud and water, and offered to get out and explore. He trusted to the horses, who could see better than we, and presently their hoofs struck the planks. Beyond that the road was safe, and we rattled off down towards the city. Presently we came to the lighted streets, and we gave many cautions to the mother to keep the children as quiet as possible, which were doubtless needless, for they had been as dumb as the stones in the street ever since we started. We turned one corner after another, and stopped a square or two from the place of refuge, while one of the party went forward to reconnoitre. We waited with impatience, wondering if any one would come along and ask any questions, and how we should evade them, moving onward a little, now and then, as we thought we saw a darker spot for the wagon to stand in, and once when we heard a stir in the soldiers' camp in the square near by. Finally, the explorer returned, and told us to go on, and stop directly at the gate, which we did accordingly. The front part of the wagon and the horses were in shadow, while a gas lamp made the back portion quite conspicuous. The children were hurried out, one or two at a time, and led or carried into the gateway, and through the intricate passage to the stable, and the bags and bundles were also lugged in. Two or three times we heard the footsteps and voices of late pedestrians a little distance off, and quietly waited until the sounds had ceased, no one passing directly by the spot where we were-until when we were about half through, suddenly a policeman came round the corner directly towards the wag on in the gas light. The young man John was standing at the back of the wagon, the mother and some of the children were still inside, and just at that moment the baby exhibited premonitory symptoms of making itself beard. John gave a hasty warning in an undertone, and the mother immediately clapped her hand over the little creature's mouth, while John executed an ingenious manoeuvre to deceive the night officer, who doubtless innocently supposed that this was an army wagon about its legitimate business, and that John was a teamster, and that there was some good reason for his being in that particular spot at that hour-for army wagons seem to be regulated by no fixed rules, but are always going everywhere, and at all hours. Whatever he might have thought, he said nothing, but like an "ancient and quiet watchman," as he was, he walked on. It was the critical moment of all, but all was safe, and finally the rest of the load, baby, feather bed, coffee-pot and all, were transferred, and the wagon drove off to its own place. We lighted a candle, and arranged the bed in
<c03>
one of the stalls, and John laid the children across it, close to each other, like so many sticks of wood. Their quietness and submission throughout the whole were astonishing. Only one little girl offered to cry at the last, but instantly subsided on being presented with an apple which one of the party happened to have. After making them all as comfortable as possible under the circumstances, we retired from the scene just after the clock had struck midnight, well satisfied with our work thus far. Our only fear was, that we might have been watched by some of the kidnappers, and that the fugitives would, after all, be captured. This fear afterwards proved groundless. The next day and on subsequent days, the masters and mistresses went to the contraband camp, but the birds had flown, the Superintendent knew not whither; and though the ladies wept tears of vexation and indignation for the loss of their "little niggers," it was of no avail. If they could have got hold of them, doubtless the little nigs would have had their turn at weeping.
Isn't this a beautiful spectacle in the great free land of America, in the latter half of the nineteenth century, in the metropolis of the nation!-fourteen human beings, created in the image of their Maker, (in the words of the old Scripture record,) fleeing by night, that they may have the right to the use of their own limbs and bodies, to earn their own living, and enjoy the results of their toil, to live together as husband and wife, as parents and children, to learn to read and write, to acquire habits of industry and neatness, to become well-mannered, honest, truthful, virtuous, to hold a respectable place in society, and perhaps to become ornaments to their race and to the land they live in-in short, to participate in all those benefits of freedom and civilization which slavery denies to them, but which, according to the nature of man and in the eyes of God, are the equal and in-alienable rights of all.
Thank Heaven! the day seems to dawn when the barbarism of slavery shall terminate; and though it comes in blood, and the smoke of battle fills the air, and the whole land mourns its thousands and tens of thousands of slain,-all victims to the rapacity of this new Moloch, far worse than the ancient,-yet who shall say that the terrible price which we are called upon to pay for having tolerated this ugly monster so long in the land, and worshipped him instead of the true God of earth and heaven, is too great? Having sown the wind, shall we not reap the whirlwind? Of old it was written, "Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." Is America, the "heir of all the nations, fairest born of time," to add another to the long line of States, which, through their own wickedness, have sunk down into irretrievable ruin, never to rise, never to hope again? Time will determine. A few days will perchance settle the momentous question of the fate of our country. Meanwhile, we wait in hope.
I have waited to add something concerning the ultimate fate of the fugitives, before forwarding these pages. We looked in upon them the next morning after the rescue, and several times thereafter. They were made as comfortable as circumstances would permit, in the little loft over the stable. The good woman who had them in charge furnished them with a stove and a carpet, and attended to their food, funds having been provided for that purpose. For three weeks they have lived in this place; and to see them sitting, or rather squatting round the stove, eating their breakfast, of a morning, the big coffee-pot in the centre, was a scene for a painter, and one which a painter with human sympathies might delight in. The military authorities have finally assured them a proper guard to Philadelphia, and in a day or two they will go on their way rejoicing, and before Christmas will doubtless be safe from all pursuit, in the city of the Quakers, and directly under their kindly protection. R. L.

CRITICISM ON PSALM CX. No. III.
BY REV. LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
I. PROLOGUE.
I. Jeva said; literally, said Jeva, the words being in the reverse order, the verb preceding the noun. Naum, with the u subscribed as a point by the Masorites, is a noun signifying an oracle or declaration of God; without the u, the word is a regular verb, and answers the purposes of a verb signifying he said. It primarily signifies to mutter, to speak low, to whisper; and is once used of false prophets, Jer. 23:31: "Behold, I am against the prophets, says [naum] Jeva, that take their tongues and utter [naaum] an oracle."
It is here connected with swearing, as in Amos 6:8, Adonai Jeva swore by his soul, Jeva God of hosts said, [oracularly,] "I abhor the pride of Jacob, and hate his palaces." The word is rarely applied to men, and then signifies the utterance of oracles, as Balaam said, Num. 24:3, 4, 15, 16; 2 Sam., 23:1: Proverbs 30:1. In Psalm 110, as usual, it refers directly to God.
Oracles are an Egyptian institution, and were early introduced from Egypt into Greece, where they long commanded the respect of the world. The early, Christians gave them full credit, and Christendom has only renounced all faith in them within the last 200 years. They figure largely in ancient history and poetry.
Psalm 110 is oracular. It reports a transaction in which Jeva bears a leading and prominent part. The place is not specified, and the manner of God's speaking is not indicated; it is not said that he spoke audibly with a human voice, or with a voice like thunder, or like the sound of many waters, but, simply, he said. It is not intimated that he spoke supernaturally, or that his speaking was anything remarkable aside from what he said: his communication was remarkable, and particular attention is called to it.
Had God actually spoken by the utterance of words, it ought to have been indicated. Explanations and certificates would have been called for to attest a phenomenon so extraordinary; but nothing of the kind appears, and God's speaking, so far as the fact is concerned, is passed by with as little attention as if he had been a man, and excites as little surprise.
Till I make your foes a stool of your feet.
The celebrated Behistun inscription is accompanied with a picture of Darius I., standing erect with one foot on the body of a rebel king, whom he had subjugated and killed. The rebel lies prostrate on the earth, with his hands bound behind him, and eight others form an advancing line in front with their hands bound behind them. All were destined to be killed, trampled down, and made stools for the feet of the conqueror, and were on the way to execution. 
The Behistun picture was made by the order of Darius, about 516 B. C., and may have been seen by the author of this psalm. Both signify the contempt which was anciently had for the vanquished, and the cruelties which accompanied their overthrow. The Judaic ruler is promised ample revenge on his enemies, and their utmost humiliation and punishment.
Such is the stern demand of Jewish vengeance against their national enemies. They are not to be spared, pardoned, and converted to a better mind, but crushed, trampled down, and treated with the utmost indignity. The entire psalm breathes the dark spirit of revenge and cruelty, without a pulsation of love or tenderness for the erring. It is as unlike the gospel of Christ as can well be imagined, and grates harsh thunder amid the melodies of infinite love. 
2. Jeva sends the rod of your power from Zion. The word for rod is mattak, a stick or club, with which to beat an enemy, not shebet, or sceptre of powerful and benignant dominion. Such is the Lord of this psalm; the symbol of his power is the club of Hercules, an instrument of violence and destruction. Hercules with his club is a prominent and commanding figure in the Greek Pantheon, but has little resemblance to Christ. When did Jeva send Christ a club from Zion? When does he appear in history with his foes for his footstool, or under his feet? Such a painting of Darius is quite appropriate; this was the character and these the doings of the man, but Christ's doings are of a very different kind. Mohammed
<c04>
might be represented by this imagery; he both ruled with a rod, and made his foes stools of his feet; but Christ is a minister of reason, and Christianity rationalism.
2. Rule in the midst of your foes.
This may be rendered, Rule the midst of your foes, the thickest of them, execute your will on them, subjugate them, and tread them down. The word for rule does not signify peaceful and benignant rule, but subjugation and violent mastery. Is this the prerogative of a son of Jeva? Even the son of Zeus with his club expended much of his violence on monsters, and spared men; the glory of the Lord of this psalm is not that of a beneficent conqueror, but of a resistless and merciless destroyer.
3. You gave willingly your people in the day of your power on the mountains of the sanctuary. You shall have your youth like dew from the womb of the morning. Or, your people [shall be] free-will offerings in the day of your power on the mountains of the sanctuary.
The first of these renderings rejects the Masoretic pronunciation of nedaboth, and makes the word nadabtha. The introduction of mountains is founded on the Kere, the correction of the Masorites, and not on the Ketib, the written text. It accepts an emendation by which the Hebrew letter dabtha is exchanged for resh, r, on the assumption that it was introduced by a mistake. The two letters are extremely similar, and either may be written in a way to make it scarcely distinguishable from the other. The principle of emendation, according to which this change is made, is, that it is more probable that a letter has been exchanged for a similar letter easily mistaken for it in the text, than that a greatly inferior and inappropriate sense was expressed. The word that belongs to the text signifies beauties, splendors, and the like; that suggested by the Masorites, mountains. Substituting mountains for beauties gives a sense poetic, obvious, pertinent and beautiful, adds point and significance to the line that follows it, exalts the couplet from a synthesis to an antithesis, and gives it additional force and beauty. I conclude, therefore, that the emendation of the Masorites is to be accepted.
Giving the people willingly on the mountains of the sanctuary was leading them to battle and to death in fighting for the sanctuary; and receiving his youth like dew from the womb of the morning is having their place supplied by a numerous rising generation. 
This completes the prologue or first part of the ode. It is a perfect poem, and wants no addition to make it complete. It treats of the poet's Lord, and tells what Jeva said to him, and then what Jeva sends him. The said is perfect and past, the sends is imperfect, as if going forward at the time of the writing, and yet unfinished. What he said gave the poet's Lord his seat of honor and office, and what he sends gives him power to subdue and destroy his foes. No part of this symbolism refers us to a peaceful Savior. An unarmed prophet, and a teacher warring with words which are irresistible appeals to reason, is the farthest possible from the poet's conception. His Lord holds mastery by the rod; and his ministry is one of vengeance and subjugation.

II. THE EPILOGUE.
4. Jeva swore; literally, swore Jeva. This is a violent supposition. Its interpretation is considered at large in Part I, and is a Hermeneutical inquiry of great importance. It requires to be resolved, on principles that admit neither of doubt nor debate; and such a solution is believed to be proposed in Part I. The full settlement of the question in regard to it is necessary to the correct determination of other Hermeneutical questions, and is within the range of ordinary abilities. It is not a mystery which only the most learned can solve; it is a patent fact which cannot be hid. It has been covered up for a time, but it cannot be permanently concealed or mystified. Truths pertaining to God are among the celestials and eternals, and their darkest nights are preludes of a bright and endless day. God must be known. 
The prologue is the leading part, and makes a declaration concerning the poet's Lord; the epilogue responds with similar but stronger declarations. It is common in the Hebrew odes to have a declaration and response. Psalm 148 is an example of this. Its prologue praises God in the heights-verses 1-6; and its epilogue in the deeps-verses 7-14. Such pieces were adapted to be performed by responding choirs; one singing the prologue, and another responding with the epilogue. The epilogue is an advance on the prologue, and relates to the same person and the same transaction. One explains the other.
The expression, "Jeva swore," is a perfect tense, and fixes the time in the past. The same is true of the verb at the commencement of the prologue; and this would have been unequivocal, if the Masorites had allowed it to retain its regular form of naum, instead of interpolating it with u. But the tense of "swore" is the subject of no ambiguity, and admits of no debate.
Jeva's oath in the epilogue is not a repetition of his saying in the prologue, but an addition to it. His saying relates to the person spoken of simply as a ruler and military despot, his oath recognizes him as a priest or sacred prince, and promises him that he shall have the office forever, on account of God's righteous king. What follows is the addition and commentary of the poet.
The author has heretofore taken chohen in the sense of prince, as being most suitable to the context; but further consideration has led him to return to the more usual signification of priest, as being here indicated. The same person is evidently referred to in the oracular saying of the prologue, and the swearing of the epilogue. The Lord of the prologue, on Jeva's right hand, receiving a rod of power sent by Jeva from Zion, and destined to rule in the midst of his foes, is the Priest of the epilogue, who is to hold his office forever. Chohen, as explained elsewhere in the author's works, signifies (1) a priest, and (2) a prince. Its common meaning is priest, and this is never to be departed from without necessity. Both the prologue and epilogue describe the person to whom this title is applied as a ruler and conqueror of the most absolute kind, and refer to no priestly function-no offering of sacrifices, burning of incense, or prayers; the works are judgments and slaughters. These considerations led the author in his Biblical parts to interpret "chohen" in the sense of prince, as suitable to the context, while that of priest did not appear so. On further consideration, he judges that priest may be retained, though in the modified sense of a sacred prince. The Maccabees were priests, and assumed no royal titles; but their priestly functions were thrown so entirely into the shade by their civil and military ones, that they are generally thought of and spoken of as kings, and not as priests. The oath is as follows:-"You shall be a priest forever, on account of my righteous king." This implies, of course, that he should be such a priest as he then was, with the supreme civil and military power, sitting on the right hand of Jeva, and subjugating and abasing his mightiest foes. We suppose Judas, the Maccabee, to be the person meant. (See Part I.) How can this oath be applicable to Judas? How can Jeva be represented as swearing that he should be priest forever on account of his righteous king? and who is his righteous king, on whose account he confers such a benefit? 
It was a common salutation to say, "Let the king live forever," and "King, live forever"; not that any such expectation was seriously entertained, but the prayer expressed the loyalty and affection of the dutiful subject. So in this case, the declaration, "Jeva swore, and will not change his mind; you shall be a priest forever," may be explained as a poetic exaggeration analogous to the greeting noted above; or it may signify that his hierarchy was expected to be permanent; or, more probably still, it is conformable to a view then prevalent, that pious and good rulers pass on in the next world to corresponding offices of still greater extent and power. Thus Christ makes the servant who gains ten pounds rule over ten cities in the next world, and the servant who gains five pounds, over five.
<c05>
The righteous king for whose sake this is done is not mentioned by name. Oracles were generally enigmas, dark and intricate allegories, and this has the characteristic obscurity common to this class of poems. God's righteous king, by way of eminence, was David, and ideas of him were seldom absent from the minds of Hebrew poets, when the subject of royalty was before them. God is said to have exercised great forbearance with the nation on account of David, in the disastrous periods of the Davidic dynasty; and the blessings conferred under Judas and the other Armonaean hierarchy may with equal propriety be set to his account.
The common version of this couplet follows the Septuagint by substituting, "according to the order of Melchisedek," for "on account of my righteous king." This is not translation, but substitution and variation. Ol dibrathi signifies "on account of," and has no relation to order, still less to a priestly order. See Daniel 2:30:-"But as for me, not for any wisdom which is in me more than in all living, was this secret revealed to me, but on account of those who should make known the interpretation to the king, and that you may know the thoughts of your heart." Eccl. 3:18:-"I spoke in my heart, on account of the sons of man, for God's trying them, and that they may see for themselves that they are cattle." 7:14:-" In a good day, be in good [spirits], in an evil day, consider. God also has made one against the other, on account- so that man may find nothing after him." 8:2:-"I [advise] keep the king's word, on account of the oath of God." The phrase must denote a reason for which something is done, and in one case required. In the latter case, it may be rendered so that, but its more natural use is to denote a reason for what is done; in which case, it is rendered on account of.

A WORD ON "THEODORE PARKER."
ROCHESTER, (N. Y.) JULY 11th, 1863.
W. L. GARRISON:
My friend, I have just read, in yesterday's Liberator, an anonymous article, headed "THEODORE PARKER";-a criticism on a discourse by Mrs. Cora L. V. Hatch, as a medium, purporting to be from Mr. Parker, and advertised in the Banner of Light.
So far as the criticism is fair. I care not how sharp it may be. I am not a subscriber to the Banner. That journal-if it deems best-must take care of its share of this matter. I have never seen a discourse of Mrs. Hatch that seemed to me at all like Theodore Parker, and, of course, do not believe it came from him. But it does not, therefore, follow that Mrs. Hatch is dishonest.
If my friend, reading an article in the Liberator, says it is from Mr. Garrison, and I see clearly his mistake, shall I, therefore, call him a knave?
It is a grave charge this anonymous correspondent brings against Mrs. Hatch and the Banner. Let his name be given, and the charge followed up with still clearer proof, and I shall not regret the exposure. Truth is but the more purely golden as the chaff sifts away.
Your correspondent's talk about "spirit-mania,"-"persons bewitched with the idea of spirits," &c.,-is what attracted my attention. It is but poorly calculated, let me suggest, to give weight to his charges. He writes like a warm friend of Theodore Parker. But a few years ago, a large majority of Boston people talked of the "mania" of "Parkerism," much as he now talks of "spirit-mania," and with as little proof to the candid mind.
The multitude of thoughtful and intelligent persons in this country, in England and Europe, who are spiritualists, including names eminent in literature, powerful in influence, and foremost in reform, as well as many in private life of the finest culture and noblest excellence, make such expressions injure most the persons who uses them.
I knew Mr. Parker for years, and know be had no faith in "manifestations," as of spirit origin. But I remember well an extract from one of his discourses, giving, in his rich language, an eminently fair and impartial statement of the leading views of spiritualists. Often have I heard it commended as just and eloquent by those whose views it stated.
That noble man did not stop to babble of "mania" in connection with the subject. He had too high a respect for the opinions of a large class of persons, among whom were some of his best friends, and no inconsiderable part of his excellent congregation at Music Hall.
Any help to sift out whatever may be crude, imperfect, or erroneous, from the wide and rich range of thought and investigation opened by this great question of the relations between spirits clad in the perishable flesh, and other spirits robed in more beautiful and imperishable vesture, should be, and would be, I think, welcomed, when tendered in suitable mood. But this talk of being "bewitched with the idea of spirits" makes manifest the fact that the mood of the writer, his own spiritual state, must be changed before any aid of value can be rendered by him.
I object not to the scalpel, even though the nerves quiver with anguish beneath its keen strokes. But I must feel that a kind and faithful hand guides the instrument, for my good. Let me detect, in voice or eye of the surgeon, a shade of malice or bitterness, and he is banished from my presence.
So of criticism. I shrink not from its keen faithfulness, but a shade of unfairness or prejudice takes away all its power.
The morale of the mediumship of Mrs. Hatch, or the course of the Banner, is a question personal, limited, individual. I have no objection to it. Let the truth come, and whoever is false beware.
It may be "that the attempt of the Banner of Light to make money by the sale of ‘spiritual literature' under false pretences like those here exposed, is neither just nor reputable." Of that, each one will decide. But Heaven pity the person capable of a wholesale fling like that of your correspondent's next paragraph! "It is an offence against justice, of which, I suppose, any one but a spiritualist would be ashamed."
I would be brief, and, therefore, pass over points of minor consequence. Less I could not say.' More might provoke controversy, for which I do not care.
G. B. STEBBINS.
MR. EDITOR-Please allow me, through your columns, to say a word in regard to an anonymous article, headed "THEODORE PARKER," which appeared in your last issue.
I would ask the writer of that article if it would not be more charitable for those of greater intellect and experience, before publicly charging an honest woman, devoted to the cause of truth, with falsehood and deception, to study, and learn something of that science of the mind which is so little understood; so as to be able to inform those who feel an interest in it, and aid them in making its manifestations more satisfactory.
No occurrence takes place in the course of nature, except in accordance with, some grand law of the universe; and what is hallucination but ignorance of those laws?
As to the use of others' names-if the sentiments which Mrs. Hatch utters are of the highest moral character, (as they hitherto have been,) what disgrace is it to any one if she professes to believe that the ideas which flow through her mind, for the hour, emanate from the mind of that person? Is the reputation of THEODORE PARKER in the community so slender as to be injured by the hallucinations of a little girl?
He blames the spirits for not saving her from the curse of an unhappy marriage. If such trials were not necessary, evils in this life, and good spirits had power to avert them, methinks the prices of mediums would be on the rise, and their services in demand.
Lastly, if the writer knows where Mr. PARKER is, and what is his employment, perhaps he can prove that he is not yet preaching, to such audiences as will hear him, not too proud to employ such means as are granted him.
Your, in behalf of her sex, A WOMAN.
<c06>
JUST PUBLISHED.
SPEECHES, LECTURES, AND LETTERS,
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octavo, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, uniform with their admired edition of De Toequeville's Democracy in America, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture.

Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by the author.
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips' works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.

CONTENTS:
I.
The Murder of Lovejoy.
II.
Woman's Rights.
III.
Public Opinion.
IV.
Surrender of Sims.
V.
Sims Anniversary.
VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement.
VII.
Removal of Judge Loring.
VIII.
The Boston Mob.
IX.
The Pilgrims.
X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker.
XI.
Idols.
XII.
Harper's Ferry.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown. 
XIV.
Lincoln's Election. 
XV.
Mobs and Education.
XVI.
Disunion.
XVII.
Progress.
XVIII.
Under the Flag.
XIX.
The War for the Union.
XX.
The Cabinet.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.
XXII.
Toussaint L'Ouverture.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.
XXIV.
The State of the Country.
This book will be sold by the Publisher and his Travelling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire County,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to canvass their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for Counties.
The volume will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON.
IN PREPARATION.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY
Miss L. M. Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author's last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of about 128 pages. 
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted in any journal.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, 
221 Washington Street.
BOSTON. 46
