THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address foe TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating too the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, Viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 32. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1604.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Cleveland Herald.
OPENING OF THE FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE.
The respectable confidence gentleman of the North, who believe with the General Whig Committee, that there is no great danger of the opening of the Foreign Slave Trade, should subscribe for a few of the Southern papers. Hardly a paper comes from the Southern cities without more or less upon this subject, showing that there is no play in this matter, but a sober earnestness that should set the people of the Free States to thinking. The next Congress will see the initiatory step in Congress, and will also see the question made a political one.
The Savannah News of the 12th, has a full report of a speech made by the Hon. L.W. Spratt in favor of opening the Trade. We make some selections and ask for them attention.
NORTHERN MASSES HAVE HUMBLE CAPACITIES.
In every State beyond the South, upon whose political action I have been allowed to look, there have been causes to disturb correct opinion. At the North, there is a responsibility too the masses; and political actors there can have no opinion but those of the masses—necessarily of humble capacities and tastes—permit them to express. But here, there is the perfect possibility. There is here no mass, for the lowest strata of our population is of slaves. There is here no master, for unfettered freemen hold as yet the sceptre and the sword. Nor this alone; we have not, perhaps, a very elevated opinion of the nobility of other countries, but it is said of them, and with truth perhaps, that they are distinguished by their elevated hearing. That which among foreign men distinguishes the noble and the peer, distinguishes the people in all the States and cities of the South. They are of a ruling of a ruling race, they feel the responsibilities of that position, they are braced by the sentiments of that condition;—and among men so situated—among men without a master, but with the tone and temper of a master-class—it is that we may justly look for centres of correct opinion.
REASON NUMBER ONE.
My first reason for the advancement of this measure is, in the belief that it will give political power to the South; and it is my firm conviction, that without political power, there is no security for social and political rights. The constitution is insufficient to protect them, for sectional majority may pass what acts they please, regardless of the constitution. The courts give no protection, for judges wear the ermine of that power whose acts they are to question, and they will be found, or they will be made, to hold accordant with the constitution, whatever acts a dominant majority may pass; and the constitution, therefore, is but a code of moral precepts, and as powerless as the parchment upon which it is enrolled, without the political conditions to support it. For minorities there is no other right but revolution; and looking to the further union of these States, and solicitous for the preservation of our rights and liberties, it would seen to be imperative upon us to procure the means to a preservation of political power. That power has been lost to the South through the suppression of the foreign slave trade; and to the slave trade, therefore, we must look for its restoration.
NIGGERS TO OUTVOTE WHITE MEN.
But, as equality was lost to the South by the suppression of the slave trade, so, would it seem, that the slave trade, would of necessity restore it. That trade re-opened, slaves would come, if not to the seaboard, at least to the western frontier, and for all who come, there would be a direct increase of representation in the national legislature. There would also be a broader base for the ruling race to stand on. 3,500,000 slaves support 6,000,000 masters now. Still more, would give a basis for still more, and every slave that comes, therefore, might be said to bring his master with him, and thus to add more than twice his political value to the importance of the South.
NOW KANSAS COULD HAVE BEEN MADE A SLAVE STATE.
But, to political power there is a necessity for States, as well as men, and slaves would quite as surely give them to us. Ten thousand masters have failed to take Kansas, but so would not have failed ten thousand slaves. Ten thousand of the rudest Africans that ever set foot upon our shores, imported, if need be, in Boston ships, and under Boston slave-drivers, would have swept the free soil party from the land. There is not and abolitionist there, who would not have purchased a slave, at a price approaching the cost of importation, and so purchasing a slave, there is not an abolitionist there who would not have become as strong a propagandist of slavery as ever lived. As they would have taken Kansas, so if imported freely, would they have taken every territory offered to the west. And thus in giving States and population to the South, it is reasonably certain, that it is within the power if these rude, untutored savages, to decide this great political question, to restore the South to power, and, perhaps, to save this Union.
HOW WHITE MECHANICS ARE TO BE SUPERCEDED.
As they give a road to power for the South, so also I have thought they give the only road. To an increase of power there must be population, and of such a population as is necessary to extend the institutions of the South, there is no other source than Africa. Europeans will not come. They could come to enterprises in connection with slave labor, if these were possible, but they will not come to competition with our slaves, and while, therefore, they drift in millions to the North, they will not come to us. But if they should, it is to be feared they would not come to strengthen us, or to extend slavery, but to exclude the slave. If slaves were abundant, there would be offices of direction too which the foreigner could come. If they were cheap, cheap enough to be employed in competition with European operatives in the arts, there would be opportunities of enterprise to which the foreigner would come; but not so abundant, nor so cheap, the hireling only comes to competition with them, and to their exclusion, therefore; and thus it is that from the States of Maryland and Delaware, and from the northern counties of Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri, and from the cities of Richmond, Charleston, Mobile, New Orleans and St. Louis, slaves have been driven from almost all the employments too which they were accustomed, and have been sent, in thousands to the rural districts of the further South. Through such a population, there is no road to power for the South. Without slaves enough for combination, they would abolitionize the States they came to strengthen, and would break the very centres of our institution. But grant the condition of abundant slaves, at prices to be used in trade, and we could draw an army of defenders from every State in Europe.
AFRICAN SLAVES AGAINST FOREIGNERS
With cheap slaves and cheap subsistence, our enterprising tradesmen could compete with tradesmen in other sections of the world. Instead of importing articles and implements for use, we could supply
<c02>
ourselves. We could turn the tide of trade back upon older countries. A larger population would result; a larger amount of products and fabrics would solicit transportation; hotels, railroads and steamboats would begin to pay—wealth would flow in upon us. Importance would come to us; and instead of standing, as we now stand, in provincial admiration of the Hoes and Vanderbilts of the North. resplendent in the prosperity that has come upon them with five hundred thousand foreigners, we ourselves could stand up, still more resplendent in the prosperity to be poured upon us by teeming thousands from the plains of Africa.
THE SWEETNESS OF SOUTHERN REPOSE.
There is nothing in the attitude and actions of the North to inspire a sentiment of awe and admiration. While the North has been desultory, the South has been constant; while the North has exhibited the feverish activities of an unnatural condition, but has, I contend, made no certain step to permanent and substantial greatness, the South has gone with measured tread to higher ranges of purpose and perception, and in doing this has exhibited a sweetness of repose, a tranquil dignity of power and progress, a calm sublimity of social order, without a parallel in the history of any civilized community upon the face of the earth. Nor is it not only gratuitous, but it is bootless. We gain no friends for there are none to defend those who will not defend themselves. We avoid no controversy, for it is weakness, and not strength, that invites attack. We shrink from perils which have no existence, for if there were wanting any evidence of the evidence of the Divine appointment of slavery—any assurance that it is destined to a bright career of greatness and glory through indefinitely distant ages, these would be found in the fact, that alone, of its own intrinsic strength, against the judgment of the age, against, the power of the general government, and without even affirmance of its own people, it has stood, and, and it stands, and it must and will stand to its own vindication and establishment.
THE ONLY HOPE OF THE NORTH.
I venture to affirm that no negroes, that were; born, have been so blessed, in themselves and their posterity, as the four hundred thousand Africans imported to this country. Is it of injury to the; white man? I venture to affirm that there are no men, at any point upon the surface of the earth, so favored in their lot, so elevated in their natures, so just in their duties, and so ready for the trials of their lives, as are the six million masters in the Southern States. Is it of injury to society? In every state of society that is artificial—and all are artificial, where classes are placed in unnatural relations to each other—there must be collisions of conflicting interests, and the throes of an irregulated nature. But from this source of evil the slave is free. There can be no march of slaves upon the ranks of masters; they have no reachings to a higher sphere; there is no contest of classes for the same position; each is in its order balanced; and I have a perfect confidence that, when France shall reel again, as reel she doubtless will, into the delirium of liberty—when the peerage of England shall have yielded to the masses—when Democracy at the North shall hold its carnival—when all that is pure and noble shall have been dragged down—when all that is low and vile shall have mantled to the surface—when women shall have taken the places and habiliments of men, and men shall have taken the places and habiliments of women—when Free Love, unions and phalansteries shall pervade the land—when the sexes shall consort without the restraints of marriage, and when youths and maidens drunk at noon-day, and half-naked, shall reel about the market places, the South will be serene and erect as she stands now,—the slave will be restrained by power—the masters by the trust of a superior position —she will move on with a measured dignity of power and progress, as conspicuous as it is now; and if there be a hope for the North—a hope that she will ever ride the waves of bottomless perdition that roll around her,—it is in the fact that the South will stand by her, and will lend a helping hand to rescue her!

SELECTIONS.
From the Independent Democrat. 
THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL. 
Messrs. Editors: I pray the indulgence of speaking through your columns a few words to the people of New Hampshire upon the 'Personal Liberty Bill' recently before our Legislature, and upon which there occurred some very spasmodic legislation. I wish to state briefly the grounds on which the friends of the bill ask for its enactment into law.
I have two special reasons for this: First, there was no one on the floor of the House to state to the people of New Hampshire what were the principles contained in the bill; and some there were, who made utterances against it, wholly subversive of all the principles of just government, 
Secondly, I feel much encouraged to state the grounds on which we ask for the bill, from the fact that, being permitted to state and illustrate very briefly our views before the committee to whom the petition was referred, we were so entirely successful that one of the committee asked us to furnish the draft of a bill embodying the principles which the petitioners desired to have enacted into law. We did so, and the Judiciary Committee, after due deliberation—for, of course, wise and patriotic men would not be hasty and inconsiderate upon a matter involving the interests of the Constitution of the country, and the most sacred rights of its citizens— reported the bill unanimously,' word for word, letter for letter, and comma for comma.' And this bill passed the second reading, on a division of the House, when the members 'rose, stood, and were counted,' by a vote of one hundred and twenty-four to one hundred and one. 
Now I cannot doubt, if we may be heard before the people—and we will be heard—but equally gratifying success may attend our labors. I am sure the passage of a bill forbidding slave-hunting in New Hampshire is only a question of time; and that time will come in the hour when the people shall indignantly demand a compliance with their most cherished convictions of right and eternal justice. First, we ask for this bill because it is right. And this we have always been taught is the polar star that should guide all legislation. Our fathers declared that the claim and title of every human being to 'life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,' were beyond all doubt or question. And in language most unmistakable, did they declare that the ends of government were to secure to ALL their blessings; and that government ceased to be obligatory when it failed to do so. No one will deny the accuracy of my statement when I say that these principles a fully, clearly, and without ambiguity expressed in the 'Bill of Rights' of this State. I take it that these averments were not intended as 'glittering generalities' to amuse and betray the people; but are announced as living, changeless principles, that are to urge and restrain, to guide and to bound all
<c03>
legislation in all times. If we deny they were so intended, we charge upon the patriots of the revolution and upon the framers of our State government, the character of tricksters, deceivers and hypocrites, Now what was the character of the bill which was so flippantly denounced by Speaker Bryant and others, and which found in all that crammed hall, not one earnest, warm-hearted advocate? 
First, It provides that no person shall be deemed or treated as property in the State of New Hampshire. Who objects? 
Secondly, That all the people shall be secure from impudent arrest on the ground that they are property. Who says nay? 
Thirdly, That for violating these rights of the people—for kidnapping or attempting to kidnap, or aiding or abetting in kidnapping, any person in this State, the person so offending shall, for the first offence, be imprisoned in the State Prison to honest labor, for the term of five years; and for the second offence, during life. Who says the penalty is too severe? Who would say so, if he or his were the victims? 
Yet this is the bill that Speaker Bryant tells us he cannot suffer to pass without ' my solemn protest against it in all its length and breadth, in every provision, line and syllable. ' This is a broad statement, and the speaker must be holden to its logical sequences, unless he is disposed to claim the indulgence, that is always granted to young and inconsiderate orators, of uttering without any definite meaning flippant and high sounding speech. Against the provision of the bill that no person in our good State shall be deemed or treated as property, he feels it his duty to utter his 'solemn protest.' All patriots of our own and other lands have felt it their duty to utter their 'solemn protest' against the tyrant's claim, that persons are property and may be so treated. If there be meaning and sincerity in Mr. Bryant's words of 'solemn protest,' then he does believe that in New Hampshire there should be the recognized principle of property in the bodies and souls of men and women. He does believe that the people of this State should be arrested and tried on the impudent claim that they are property; for he says he is opposed to the bill 'in all its length and breadth, in every provision, line and syllable.' Of course, if he protests against the affirmative, he embraces the negative. 
We ask this law for the hunted, fainting fugitive, who has sought the asylum of our brave little State, or who may be passing through it to a land of freedom. We ask it on the ground of his natural and inalienable right to this protection. But the fugitive has added to this natural right, this other, that he has earned it by acts of devotion to liberty, and of heroic daring to obtain the priceless boon, which has not bean surpassed, and has rarely been equalled in any age or land. You and I, Messrs. Editors, and Speaker Bryant, have done little to deserve this rich gift of God. But far above most other men stands the fugitive from bondage in his deservings of freedom. It requires small courage in the soldier to rush to the carnage of battle when he feels the shoulder of his fellow touch his own—when he hears the firm, steady tone of command from leaders in whom he trusts—but especially as he is intoxicated with the 'pomp and circumstance of glorious war.' No wonder when he hears the braying of martial music, the thunder of the moving squadrons, and is maddened to fury by the spirit of his work, that 'like the unthinking horse he rusheth to the battle.' But for the slave to flee from his bondage requires courage of the highest order. He commences his daring enterprise alone and self-reliant. He is ignorant of the way except as the heavens, through the ministry of the North star, give him direction. He knows well the danger and peril that beset his fearful journey, for hundreds of miles, through a land of enemies sworn to seize and hand him back to a doom more terrible than death. He knows well that the keen-scented blood-hound, whose nature has been corrupted by the art of man, will bay upon his track; followed by the swift horse, bearing the human fiend with the deadly rifle in hand. He hides by day and runs by night. He allows himself to be crammed in the most torturing positions in boxes, rides hundreds of miles, sometimes for many hours, head downwards, is tumbled about by the rough workmen, and in all this complicated, and it would seem unendurable misery, he must not utter a sigh or a groan, or all is lost. He has the courage and address to 'suffer and be still.' He hides and starves in the holds of vessels, clings beneath the guards of steamboats, and under the platforms of cars. Mothers cross rivers upon floating icebergs, their children in their arms: some come to us bearing rifle balls in their bodies, others maimed by frost, and when they reach New Hampshire, they knock at the door of our State House and ask to be protected, and some rise to let them in; yes, one hundred and twenty-four rise to swing back the door and place the granite wall of the State between the 'hunter and the flying,' when lo! the Speaker leaps from the chair and utters his 'solemn protest' against it, and lo! all the men (?) but 17 sit down, and these brave 17 men had no! power to open the door; and so the stranger stands without, and turns away to seek a more friendly roof. In the language of another, 'Jesus by the black hand of the slave knocks at the door of our State Houses and our churches. Shall he come in?' People of New Hampshire, will you bar him out? 
But we do not ask for this law for the security of the slave alone. His freedom and our own are firmly linked by the hand of God. We ask the law as a protection of human freedom; yours and mine land speaker Bryant's. It is an axiomatic truth that "a good deed is twice blessed;" blessing not less him who is the doer than him who is the object, of the deed. The converse is also true, that a wicked act is twice cursed, cursing more him who does the wrong act than him on whom it terminates. True as inspiration are the words of a modern philosopher, "He that putteth one end of a chain upon the heel of his neighbor, fastcneth the other end about his own neck." The history of the world shows that there is, and can be, no security for the rights of man, but in the practical acknowledgment of their universal application and inviolability. The law for which we ask would be at once the highest honor to the State, and the surest pledge of continued freedom to her children. If the slave, when he has, through incredible hardship and suffering, reached our soil, cannot be protected from the man-hunter, then let us abolish our Fourth of Julys, burn our "Bill of Rights," blot out the graves of our fathers, and have the grace, at least, to be scoundrels without being hypocrites.
But there is still another ground on which the fugitive is entitled to freedom. By the laws of the State you disarm the slave, you will not let him carry the weapons necessary for the defence of his rights, or to use those with which nature has furnished him. If he lilts his hand to defend his liberties and wound or slay the man-thief who assaults him, then you have for him a prison or a gallows. Do you not say to all who stand upon your soil "trust in the laws and you shall be protected?" Can there be greater perfidy on earth than to refuse the fulfilment of such an obligation as this? We forbid them to defend themselves, plight to them the faith of the State, and then prove false. 
<c04>
Men and women of New Hampshire! am I guilty, of extravagance when I pronounce such a course the very sublimity of meanness and villany? But it was objected to this bill that it is unconstitutional. Certainly the Judiciary Committee did not so regard it, else they would have so reported. They reported the bill without a dissenting voice so far as their report shows. I hope it is not the habit of committees to report bills that they regard as unconstitutional. There may be other evidence that this committee had the temerity to do so, but their report to the House is all the guide we need to consult in the case. 
But if the bill be unconstitutional, then I ask by what constitution you try it? Certainly not the constitution of New Hampshire. This requires the enactment. Not to make the law is failing to carry out the provisions of the constitution. If, however, you believe the constitutions of the United States and of New Hampshire are in conflict, then, here cannot be a moment's hesitation in the mind of a patriot which to obey, especially as ours requires what our consciences declare to be honorable and right; while the opposite course of action demands of us to crucify our best affections, to smother and kill the holiest emotions of our natures,' and to befoul and tarnish our own and the honor of the State.
But there is another law on this subject which the people of New Hampshire profess to reverence and honor as the law of the eternal God: "Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee; He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose, in one of thy gates where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him."—Deut. 23d chapt., 15th and 16th verses. "Take counsel, execute judgment, hide the outcasts, bewray not him that wandereth. Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be a covert to them from the face of the spoiler."—Isaiah, 16th chapt., 3d and 4th verses. "Neither shouldst thou have stood in the cross way to cut off those of his that did escape: Neither shouldst thou have delivered up those of his that did remain in the day of distress."—Obadiah, 16th chapt., 14th verse. 
It is not easy to conceive how language more clear, definite, and forcible, could be used in reference to any outrage, than is the language of these passages in reference to slave-hunting. No language used by Wm. Lloyd Garrison in reference to this great wrong ever met the case more directly. Indeed, whoever has heard Mr. Garrison on this subject, knows well, that these and similar passages from the old prophets are the chosen channels in which his convictions and emotions flow. 
In the discussion of this bill in the House, one of the members—Mr. Shirley, of Andover—had much to say of the 'oath of God,' 'perjury,' &c. Now that gentleman ought to know that he is sworn to observe the constitution of New Hampshire, and I challenge Mr. Shirley or any other person, to show a provision or an expression of this 'Personal Liberty Bill' which the constitution of New Hampshire does not authorize and enjoin. I do not wish at all to discuss the question of what the Constitution of the United States allows, enjoins, or forbids, in reference to the question of property in man, and the seizing of men, and treating them as property. There is not a person in New Hampshire but knows as well as I do, that this doctrine of property in man is from the pit—that it is an outrage upon humanity, that no constitution ever can justify it. Suppose Mr. Bryant and Mr. Shirley were fugitives from slavery, would not they deem any law or constitution that required their rendition, an outrage upon their God-given rights? If a bill were proposed to throw around them the protection of the state of New Hampshire, in that case, would these gentleman feel—to use the words of Mr. Bryant—that it was 'due to his own self-respect ' to utter his 'solemn protest' against it? Would he leap from the chair with undignified haste to get the first word of 'solemn protest'? I think not. There lives not a man on earth but feels, must feel, by an inevitable law of his being, that any constitution or law that denudes him of his manhood, crushes and crucifies his dear and deathless aspirations for the blessings of freedom, is only fit to be rejected of men, and given to the consuming fire. Let these gentlemen continue to utter their infidel sneers against the 'higher law.' Still God reigns in the universe and these unwilling gentlemen are the subjects of his government. 
But there is another view of this subject which may be of use to those who are infirm of moral purpose. I believe it is every where 'good law ' that when one party to a mutual legal contract fails to fulfill or wickedly violates the specifications on his part, the other party is released from the obligations of the contract. Now it is notorious that the slave power has never regarded the obligations of the Constitution at all. It has never been allowed to oppose the strength of one poor straw to any of the mad schemes of the slave power. It has driven the government to make treaties with the Indians, stipulating for the rendition of fugitive slaves, and using millions of the public money for this purpose, utterly in violation of the Constitution. And the faith of those treaties they have violated again and again. It has in most of the Slave States stricken down by law the freedom of speech and the press, guaranteed to all the people of all the States. South Carolina and Mississippi have refused the suit of Massachusetts, whose citizens it had seized upon the deck of their own vessels and sold into bondage, and by violence driven her agents from their borders; an South Carolina placed upon her statute book, and there it stands to-day, a law making it a felony for any agent of any free State to come into South Carolina to prosecute before the tribunal of the Constitution—the Supreme Court of the United States-any case involving the right of South Carolina to seize and enslave their citizens, and to punish any such power by imprisonment in her penitentiary. 
But the time would fail me to speak of all the palpable and shameful violations of the Constitution, and outrages upon the sensibilities, and upon the cherished principles of human freedom, and upon the rights of the free States, and their citizens who have in the slave States refused to bow down and worship her 'MOLOCH.' And yet with all this array of human rights, and of the claims of heroism and of humanity and mercy, and with all the insult and injury of the haughtiest despotism on earth, with the area of slavery constantly increasing, with one after another of the strongholds of freedom assaulted and carried, the friends of freedom constantly retreating, so that where freedom supped the last night, slave breakfasts this morning, till at last we are driven within our own State lines, and here being assaulted by the infamous decision of the Supreme Court asserting the right of property in man, and the chief magistrate of the nation asserting that under the Constitution slavery is as lawfully in the territories as in the slave States, and consequently under the supremacy of the Constitution lawful everywhere within its jurisdiction, we have men, who, when it is proposed to barricade at the threshold of our State where the enemy is already thundering, are ready to leap forth and enter 'solemn protests' and tell the people of New Hampshire they have not ' read the popular sentiment aright' if they are in
<c05>
favor of any such defence; imploring the people to wait till the yoke of despotism is made fast. I tell these Rip Van Winkles they will at no distant day wake up and find they have only dreamed and not read at all. 
We once had a personal liberty bill in New Hampshire, weak and imperfect to be sure. That the Democrats had the audacity to repeal, and to lay New Hampshire at the feet of the slave power, and the result to the party we know. Let the Republicans take warning lest the people shall punish a cringing cowardice in defending freedom, as they have punished a satanic courage in upbuilding slavery. 
Is it much that we ask New Hampshire to be as true to freedom as South Carolina is to slavery? I am sure it needs no prophet's ken to foretell the future course of New Hampshire on this subject, or the future troubles of those ambitious young men of 'brilliant promise,' who in haste to secure national reputation have damaged beyond repair their future claims upon the regards of the friends of freedom. Yours for free soil in N. H.
A. T. FOSS. 
MANCHESTER, July 16, 1859. 

From the New York Tribune. 
RELEASE OF DR. DOY. 
From our Special Correspondent. 
LAWRENCE, K. T., July 25, 1859. 
This afternoon, a small cortege of eleven persons drove into Lawrence. Part of them were in a two-horse wagon, and the rest on horseback; they were all well armed, but made no particular display of their arms. They were somewhat travel-worn and soiled, and there was a little of the air of '76 about the party. It was composed of respectable citizens, many of them farmers and men of family in Lawrence or its vicinity. In the wagon was Dr. Doy. Having driven to the moat public part of the town, a crowd instantly began to gather, and just as the wagon stopped, and the facts were ascertained, three cheers went up for the rescue of Dr. Doy. To meet the false or incorrect reports of the transaction, the men have drawn up a statement of the occurrence, with its details, which I inclose; they would not have hesitated to attach their signatures to it, but on being advised not to do so, yielded. They feel, however, that it was a simple act of justice, and a vindication of the rights of Kansas citizens. I do not hesitate to vouch for the parties, and for the statement. 
There is something about this rescue that is more than commonplace. It fitly takes rank with many of the boldest feats ever performed in Kansas. The parties delayed their action until a legal remedy was hopeless. The thirty days of respite terminated with Saturday last, on the evening of which day the rescue was made. The chief counsel, Gov. Shannon, had given it as his opinion that, in spite of the appeal to the Supreme Court, the prisoner would be removed at once to Jefferson City. The first object of the party was to succeed; the second, to succeed: without bloodshed, if possible. A handful of men <illegible> one of the strongest cities in Missouri next to St. Louis, took the captured Doy from the jail, marched through the streets of the city to the river, and crossed the muddy Rubicon to the free shores of Kansas. A couple of wondering and fearful night watchmen followed the party to the river, and, without designing it, lighted the party to the boat with their lanterns. This certainly eclipses the capture of Doy. Those citizens of Kansas have released their fellow-citizen without being obliged to harm anybody. Missouri had the chance to rebuke lawless raids on Kansas and to act magnanimously, but, in her blind devotion to slavery, threw it away. 
Those who have sympathized with this rescue and known of it are many, and it was a pre-determined result. Doy will be protected in his person and liberty, and no further interference on the part of Missouri will now be tolerated. 
The land sales commenced at Lecompton to-day. The attendance, I learn, is not yet large. Several fine rains have extended over Kansas, and there is now a good prospect for a heavy corn crop. 
There was a hot caucus election in the town of Lawrence on Saturday, on the election of delegates to the Convention to nominate a Republican candidate for delegate. The contest was between delegates for Mr. Parrott and Judge Conway. Judge Conway carried it by a good majority. These two men will probably be the chief candidates before the Convention, which assembles here on the 3d of next month. 
The following is the statement of Dr. Doy's rescuers: 
We, ten citizens of the Territory of Kansas, engaged in the deliverance of one of our fellow-citizens from a Missouri dungeon, where he was unjustly held, and learning that certain parties have given false reports of our action, do set forth the facts, simply at a vindication of our conduct. Dr. Doy was, to our knowledge, forcibly abducted by a band of lawless men, Missourians and others, from our soil. Held in violation of all law or legal precedent, and learning that this high-handed violence was likely to result in a cruel and humiliating imprisonment of our fellow-citizen; believing that every citizen of Kansas was injured and insulted in the person of Dr. Doy, and having no other remedy from the authorities whose duty it was to protect us, we resolved to deliver him by the only means left to us, and have executed our purpose as follows: 
Having waited until the expiring of the time in which we were told a legal remedy might be had, and anticipating Dr. Doy's immediate removal to the Penitentiary at Jefferson City, we at once proceeded to St. Joseph, Mo., where he was confined. Desirous of securing his relief, without bloodshed if possible, we took such precaution as would moat easily effect our purpose. On Saturday night last, in a storm of wind and rain, we proceeded through the streets of the city of St. Joseph to the jail. We had previously ascertained the nature of the jail., That beside the outer doors, and a room to pass; through, and a flight of stairs, there was a heavy double door, part of iron, and a double grated gate of heavy iron bars. We determined to proceed by strategy rather than violence. Only ten minutes before we arrived at the jail, the night-watch was there, and aroused the jailor with a report that he thought he had heard some one talking around the jail. He had just left before we arrived. Part of our number were stationed so that they could not be seen from the doors or windows—three of the number; one of them, with his hands seemingly manacled, was guarded by two others holding him as a prisoner. It had been so dark as the party came through the streets, that we had to keep close together to keep from losing each other. Once a cry of 'Police!' 'Police! 'was heard, occasioned by some row down toward the docks, and policemen passed the party on their way toward it, but our be party went on. Having been stationed as mentioned above, we knocked. The jailor came to the upper window, and asked our names and business. He could see there were but three persons. We told him that we were from the neighborhood of Savannah, Mo., and that we had a horse-thief in charge; of that we had chased him from within a mile of Savannah, and had just captured him outside of St. Joseph 
<c06>
He asked a few more questions, and came down and unlocked the door. We entered, leading in the prisoner bound between two of our number. We had to proceed through an apartment, thence into a passage. Here the jailor stopped and asked a few more questions, in order to satisfy himself. He seemed anxious to know that there were sufficient reasons for the imprisonment of the alleged horse-thief. We then proceeded up stairs. Meanwhile, a young man who was in the building came from below, and proceeded to the inner door. At the same time, other three of our party entered and stood in the room below, now dark. The young man, coming back, ran against one of these persons, and asked who it was. He was told that it was more of the same party. 
Meanwhile, the party at the head of the stairs, and the jailor, had gone into the upper room, where his wife was, and had got the keys. A large dog lay in front of the jail door. The jailor opened the heavy door, and then unlocked the grate and swung it back. The supposed horse-thief was told to go in by the jailor. This he demurred at doing, alleging that he did not desire to go in with 'niggers.' 
'There are no niggers there. We won't put you with niggers,' said the jailor. 
'Is that abolitionist, Doy, here?' asked one of the party. 
'Dr. Doy, you mean,' said the jailor. 
'That's what we're after. In the name of an outraged community we demand his release,' said another of the party. 
The jailor turned, astonished, to the first speaker, as if to demand the meaning of this, when that person said to him: 
'It's a mere ruse, Mr. Brown—we have got you.' 
The jailor then attempted to close the door, when the speaker drew his revolver, and, planting it at his breast, said: 'That door can't be shut. We came here to release our friend, and have the power to do it.' 
Seeing his powerlessness, he then yielded, and Dr. Doy was taken from the prison. The other prisoners desired to escape; one of them got his coat and tried to get out at the door. He was compelled to go back. The jailor begged that they at least would not let the other prisoners escape. Dr. Doy went down stairs to the other party. Then the other three followed down. Before leaving, one of the party told the jailor that we were determined to make the matter safe, that the jail would be guarded, and that if he or any other ventured to leave it that night, or to raise an alarm, it would be at the peril of their lives. 
Our party then left the jail. The clouds drifted over a little just about the moment of the occurrence, and showed the streets more plainly. Many of the houses and business places were still lighted and open. Our party marched in solid form to the river, two of them bearing up Dr. Doy, who was unwell and weak from his confinement. On our way to the river, two of the city night-guard, with their lanterns, came up behind the party, and followed us to the river. We had previously found a couple of boats, and had watched them during the afternoon and evening, so as to know that they would be ready for our purpose. We embarked, the policemen, with their lanterns, standing back a little distance and watching the proceedings. We rowed to the Kansas shore, and, having reached it, started for our homes, and to take Dr. Doy to his home. 
We were followed all the first day by parties that we supposed to be enemies, but they did not address our party. 
Having thus succeeded, happily and peacefully, in rescuing our fellow-citizen, we respectfully submit these facts, and remain satisfied with the share we have had in the transaction. 
Kansas, July 25th, 1859. 
From the St. Louis Bulletin, July 29. 
Mr. E. H. Grant, editor of the new Free State paper in St. Joseph, The Free Democrat, arrived in this city at an early hour this morning, on the steamer Warsaw. He does not come as a fugitive from the indignation of the people, as has been reported, but is here for the purpose of procuring material for a new daily evening paper, which he is about to establish there. 
Mr. Grant informs us that at a large meeting of the citizens of St. Joseph, on Monday evening of this week, a resolution was offered declaring The Free Democrat to be a nuisance, &c., and also advising that the editor, Mr. Grant, should be ordered to quit the town. After some discussion, the resolution was voted down by an overwhelming majority. Another resolution was offered to the effect that the paper and its editor should be sustained. This resolution was passed almost unanimously. Mr. Grant is now, as we have before stated, about to commence the publication of a daily evening paper, and the citizens have given him every encouragement of success. Thus terminates the foolish attempt of ignorant squad of ruffians to trample on the freedom of speech and the press. We wish the editor of The Free Democrat success in his new enterprise, and advise him to say and act in St. Joseph, or any where else, as his conscience and good sense may dictate. 
The Alton (Ill.) Courier of July 29 says: 
A young man who arrived at St. Joseph on Monday, from Kansas, stated that he met Dr. Doy and his rescuers at Cottonwood Springs the day before. There were twelve men in the party. They told the stranger all about the rescue, and stated that they had men posted all the way from the jail in St. Joseph to the river on the night of the rescue. Doy was quite ill, and had to be borne in a wagon. The Sheriff of Buchanan County has offered a reward of $1,000 for the re-capture of the rescued convict. 

'BLACK LAW' OUTRAGE. 
Permit me to record a recent outrage against humanity, morals and religion, committed under the operation of Illinois ' Black Law.' 
A man and his wife, both born and raised in the State of Ohio, as I understand, left Ohio for Wisconsin, where they own some Land, intending to settle there. Being delayed by the rains and other causes, they found they could not reach Wisconsin, the place of their destination, soon enough to put in crops this season, and concluded to call on some friends living a few miles from Marion, Williamson Co., with whom they had been very intimate formerly, in Ohio, hire some land if possible put in crops, wait till after harvest. then pursue their journey. The friends let them part of their own house, ten acres of land was hired, prepared and planted with corn. God, the great husbandman, smiled upon the industry of this man, and his labors have prospered. Soon there began to be whisperings, threats followed. 'This was not to be tolerated—it was against the law.' Nothing could be said against the character of the parties; "the man was sober, honest, industrious and peaceful; the woman pious and godly, without reproach, a member of the Wesleyan Methodist Church. I visited the scene of action, accompanied by Rev. H. Patrick. We endeavored to calm the fears of the parties interested, recommended some persons to call on the malcontents and explain matters, show that the individuals in question did not intend to remain in the State longer than Fall, when they would remove from their midst. We also appointed a meeting in the neighborhood,
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.' 
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' —WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
with a view to create public opinion in favor of humanity and mercy. After having done this, we departed, hoping that all might be for the best.
But that same night, at nearly ten o' clock, a dozen sons of Belial armed, went to the house where their victims lodged, and marched them off to a Justice of the Peace, 6 miles distant. They were tried by a jury of twelve men (?) found guilty of a high misdemeanor-remaining in the State more than ten days-and fined $100 and costs. When this was secured, they were suffered to depart, and between 1 and 2 o'clock, a. m., they reached the house of their friends, weary and disconsolate. They immediately left the county, for one more civilized. We held our meeting, however. Brother Patrick and myself delivered anti-slavery addresses, left anti-slavery tracts with the people, and returned, grieved at heart, sick in the soul, while reflecting on the oppressions of the poor. One-half of the money wrung out of these poor persons goes to the informer, the other half goes-where? where? Tell it not in Gath, publish it not at Askelon-to constitute a ï¿½CHARITY FUND' for the use and benefit of the county. 
Now, can hypocritical wickedness go further than this? It is enough to shame the devil.
[REV. W. HOLMES.
-American Missionary. 

From the Oberlin Evangelist. 
ANDERSON JENNINGS, THE SLAVEHOLD.
ING CHRISTIAN.
When a man comes of his own accord from Kentucky to Ohio to testify in open court, and from the witness stand, under oath, discloses his own history, the facts thus disclosed become public property, and no objection can lie against their legitimate use. 
Anderson Jennings appeared in the United States Court at Cleveland as a Christian gentleman from Kentucky. Some of his Kentucky friends testified under oath to his reputable standing in an orthodox church in that State. The Maysville press endorses this testimony, declaring him to be a model Christian gentleman. His case may, therefore, help us to ascertain what are the essential elements of Christian character as molded under the influence of slavery in Kentucky: 
Mr. Jennings testified that he had been three times into Ohio in pursuit of fugitive slaves. In the present case, he had proffered his services to John G. Bacon, the alleged owner of the slave boy John, purely as an act of neighborly kindness, tempted by no promise or expectation of tilthy lucre. In the prosecution of this benevolent enterprise, he had offered Jacob Lowe and Samuel Davis, of Columbus, one hundred dollars, for their assistance. The disinterested benevolence of Jennings is further taxed by the offer of twenty dollars to one Shakspeare Boynton, a lad of fourteen, for decoying the slave boy by a lie into his hands. There is, to be sure, some doubt thrown upon this large assumption of disinterested benevolence by the testimony of John G. Bacon, who swore that by contract he was to give Jennings half the value of the slave John, if he obtained him, and that the proposal to this effect came from Jennings. In this conflict of sworn testimony, the probabilities of the case being with Bacon and against Jennings, we will, perhaps, be compelled to admit that his special claim to benevolence in the way of ï¿½neighborly kindness' is some what damaged.
We listened to the cross-examination of Jennings as to his Sabbath duties on the twelfth of September last, the day before the seizure and arrest of the slave boy John. In answer to questions, he testified that on this Sabbath he did not attend church, did not give himself to reading of the Scriptures, nor to private forms of devotion; but did spend the day at one Boynton's, some three miles from Oberlin, negotiating and planning with Boynton's son for the decoy and seizure of the slave boy John. He did not altogether like to do such business on the Sabbath, and should not have done it then, had he not been afraid the boy would run. Under these circumstance of danger, he considered this planning a lawful work of necessity.
Here, then, are the elements of character developed, in the case of Anderson Jennings-reputed to be a slaveholding Christian of Kentucky. He prostitutes himself, professionally, to the business of hunting down and sending back servants who escape from their masters; he swears (falsely or truly) that he does this work purely out of neighborly kindness; he hires a lad fourteen years old to lie for him 'as a decoy; and, finally, he devotes to this service the sacred hours of the Christian Sabbath.
Now we confess to great exercises of mind for many years as to the genuineness of that type of piety which steals babes into slavery as soon as bornï¿½which denies to parents the right to train up and to love their own children-which rends families asunder, and which, with deadly weapons, hunts down the fleeing fugitive. Long time have we sought to guard our judgment against uncharitableness, and to make all due allowances for the force of education; but when we are confronted with a case like this of Jennings, we are compelled to say: With such piety towards God, let my soul have no communion! with such humanity to man, let me never have fellowship!
H. C.

HOW IT PROVED HIM. 
On board the cars were several clergymen who were returning to the East, having attended a clerical convention held somewhere in Illinois. There were two newspapers lying on a seat close by, the Liberator and the Detroit Free Press, the former an out and out anti-slavery sheet-the latter intensely pro-slavery. One of the clergymen reached forward his hand, and picked up the Liberator, looked at the title, and in an instant dropt it as he would a piece of molten lead; be then took up the other, which he read with much apparent gusto. Whether it was that the approximation of two such antagonistic sheets, lying in quietude side by side, suggested that there might be some heretical abolitionists who needed leavening with a pro-slavery gospel, or not, we could not divine, but when the paper had been carefully perused, the Reverend gentleman commenced with the pious work of defending the peculiar institution from the Bible; (talking to a brother clergy man,) and according to his argument it appeared that the Old Testament and the New, Abraham, Jesus and Paul-the early Christians, and all right-minded, decent Christians, were on the side of American Slavery. The Reformers and Abolitionists were classed among the reprobates for whom no hope could be expected in the other world.
What a delectable sight was this to find men professing to follow the Divine Teacher, yet scouting from his creed his Divine maxims of justice, peace and love, and defending in place thereof a system which makes it a felony to shelter the outcast, give bread to the hungry, and clothing to the naked!
Correspondent of the Grand Haven (Mich.) Clarion. 

THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY. 
So outrageous were the proceedings at the meeting of this Society at New York, anniversary week, that even, the New York Times, which has always been a staunch friend of the Tract management, felt called upon to administer the following rebuke:-
Our readers are aware that we have never sympathized with the strenuous efforts of the last three or four years to force the Tract Society into an active participation in the crusade against slavery. We distrust its wisdom, and doubt its essential justice. But those efforts must not be met in the spirit, and by the weapons wielded by the dominant party at the meeting of Wednesday last. The weapons were carnal, and the temper devilish. The same exhibition at a political meeting would have been seemed disgraceful, and just cause of alarm for the liberties of the country. When religious men, ostentatiously assembled under the Christian banner, proclaiming to the world the righteousness of their endeavors, and the supreme holiness of their motives and their means of action, resort to the most questionable devices or the most violent and unscrupulous political demagogues for the accomplishment of their ends, they cannot expect to retain the sympathies or the confidence of the great mass of those who assent to the justice of their policy, while they do not share the violence of their prejudices and their passions.'
'The Vermont Chronicle, which has always taken a very conservative view of the Tract controversy, says:
When the right or wrong of slavery is presented as a naked question, no Christian, no American, ought to hesitate a moment to express his judgment and feeling; and no society of Christian men ought to avoid the question when it comes in their way.
No Society aiming to diffuse 'and evangelical literature,' can, without shame and guilt, ignore a subject like this, when the most monstrous practical error is making its way in the community,
polluting the public sentiment, and threatening to draw into its embraceï¿½ the very elest.' 
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON. AUGUST 12, 1859. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS TO THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF MASSACHUSETTS, AND PRESIDENT OF HARVARD COLLEGE. 
To LEMUEL SHAW, Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and JAMES WALKER, President of Harvard University:
GENTLEMEN:ï¿½Now that the Press has ceased its ridicule of your homage to Morphy at the Revere House,ï¿½a criticism of little importance,ï¿½I wish to present the scene to you in a different light.
You, Mr. Chief Justice, represent the law of the Commonwealth; to you, Mr. President, is committed the moral guardianship of the young men of her University. Yet I find you both at a table of revellers, under a roof whose chief support and profit come from the illegal sale of intoxicating drink, and which boasts itself the champion and head of an organized, flagrant and avowed contempt of the laws of the Commonwealth. No one was surprised to see at your side; a Mayor who owes his office to the votes of that disorderly band whose chief is the Revere House. Few wondered at the presence of a Professor placed by private munificence to watch over the piety and of morals of your College, Mr. President; though a manly protest against fashionable vice might do something to redeem the office from seeming only an eavesdropping spy on the opinions and manners of young men. 
But you, Mr. Chief Justice, know that three-quarters, if not four-fifths, of all crime result from habits of intoxication; that nine-tenths, at least, of all the murderers you have sent to the gallows had never been murderers, had they not first been drunkards. You can look round you and back for fifty years, and see places at the bar and on the bench, once filled by genius and hope, now vacant-their tenants in drunkards' graves. You know how fearful the peril which modern civilization, and specially popular institutions, encounter from the cheapness of liquor and the habits of indulgence in all our great cities; you know the long and earnest labors of noble men, for fifty years, in both hemispheres, against this evil, and the momentous experiment they are trying of legal prohibition to arrest it; resulting here in a stringent law against the sale of intoxicating drinks. You know also that the Revere House is the insolent leader of that heartless and selfish faction, which, defeated before the people, seeks by unblushing defiance of law to overbear opinion and statute. 
And you, Mr. President, the moral guardian of the young men of our University, well know its venerable statutes and unceasing efforts to prevent the use of wine within its walls. You know how many, often the brightest, names on your catalogue, too early marked with the asterisk of death, owe their untimely end to wine. Both of you know that the presence of men holding such offices as yours, goes as far as recreant office and reputation can to make a bad roof respectable.
Yet I find you both at a midnight revel, doing your utmost to give character to a haunt which boasts its open and constant defiance of the moral sense of the State, solemnly expressed in its statutes.
No one denies, gentlemen, your right to indulge what social habits you please in the privacy of your own dwellings; or, in travelling, to use the customary accommodations of an Inn, even though intoxicating drink is sold on its premises. Few will care to criticise if, choosing some decent roof, you join your fellows, and mock the moral sentiment of the community by a public carousal. But, while you hold these high offices, we, the citizens of a Commonwealth whose character you represent, <illegible> deny your right to appear at illegal revels in a gilded grogshop, which, but for the sanction of such as you, had long ago met the indictment it deserves. How can we expect the police to execute a law upon which the Chief Justice pours contempt by his example? How shall the Grand Jury indict the nuisance of which the Supreme Bench has for an hour made a part? We, the citizens, have a right to claim that should public opinion, by our labors, reach the point of presenting these gorgeous grog-shops at the criminal bar, we shall not find their frequenters on the Bench.
Again and again, Mr. Chief Justice, have I heard you, at critical moments, in a voice whose earnest emotion half checked its utterance, remind your audience of the sacred duty resting on each man to respect and obey the law: assuring us that the welfare of society was bound up in this individual submission to existing law. How shall the prisoner at the bar reconcile the grave sincerity of the magistrate with this heedless disregard by the man of most important laws? If again the times should call you to bid us smother justice and humanity at the command of statutes, we may remind you with what heartless indifference you treated the law you are sworn and paid to uphold, and one on which the hearts of the best men in the State were most strongly set. Was it not enough that you let History paint you bowing beneath a slave-hunters's chain to enter your own courtroom; but must you also present yourself in public lifting to your lips the wine-cup which, by the laws of the State over whose Courts you preside, it is on indictable offence and a nuisance to sell you?
And let me remind you, Mr. President, that even your young men sometimes pause amid scenes of temptation or in our streets where every tenth door opens to vice, pause at some chance thought of home of rising regard for the sentiment of the community. And, Sir, should such frail purpose of even one youth falter before the sight of his President in a circle of wine bibbers, and that first step lead to an unhonored grave, you will be bound to remember that, in the check and example you promised, and were expected, and set to hold upon him, you wholly failed; that in the most impressible moments of his life, he saw the virtue of the State struggling with its sensual indulgence, its lust of dishonorable gain, its base pandering to appetite, already too strong; and in that struggle he saw your weight ostentatiously thrown into the scale of open and contemptuous disregard of the moral sense of the State. I remember well when, from a pulpit constantly boasting that its new creed had thrown away a formal and hollow faith, and brought in the wholesome doctrine of works, you painted, so vividly, how hard it is for young men to say No.'Is this, sir, the method you choose to illustrate the practical value of the new faith, and this the help you extend to the faltering virtue of your pupils? giving the sanction of your character and office to the prince of rum-sellers and law-breakers, and flinging insult on one of the noblest reforms of the age?
Observe, gentlemen, I do not now arraign you for your private habit of wine-drinking. I don't complain that a Judge, who sees so much crime come from it, still gives it his countenance; that a clergy-man-the-chief apostle of whose faith declared he would eat no meat while the world stood, if so doing made his brother to offend-still throws that stumbling block in the way of his pupils. But I arraign the CHIEF JUSTICE of Massachusetts, and the PRESIDENT OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY, because when the rum interest of the State is marshalling its strength to beat down the law by gross, grow, open and avowed disobedience, they are found landing their names, character and office to give respectability to the grog-shop whose wealth enables it to lead that dishonorable and disloyal effort. As a citizen, I claim that you disgraced your places, if not yourselves; and I hope the day will come when such insult by such high officers to any statute of the Commonwealth, much more to one representing its highest moral purpose, will be deemed cause enough to remove the one, and impeach the other.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
August 1, 1859. 
<c03>
CELEBRATION 
OF
WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 
In Milford Town Hall, August 1st, 1859. 
At the appointed hour, the meeting was called to order by WM. S. HAYWOOD, who read the following names as nominees for the various offices:ï¿½
President-E. D. DRAPER, of Hopedale.
Vice-Presidents-G. W. Stacy, of Milford; Clark Aldrich, Upton; J. A. Whipple, Worcester; Ellie Allen, Medfield; Dr. J. H. Hero, Milford.
Secretaries-Lizzie B. Humphrey, H. Amanda Albro, of Hopedale.
Finance Committee-Charles Johnson, of Milford; D. H. Carter, W. W. Cook, Almira B. Humphrey, Sarah J. Hatch, of Hopedale; Dean Battles, Mrs. E. A. Butterfield, of Milford. 
This nomination being accepted, Mr. DRAPER took the chair, and the exercises were commenced by the singing of a hymn.
The platform was then occupied by Rev. W. G. BABCOCK, of South Natiek, who read an extract from an address delivered by Wm. Ellery Channing, at Lenox, on the 1st of August, 1842, upon the subject of West India Emancipation; after which, he offered a prayer.
He was followed by Mr. STACY, of Milford, who used from the same address another extract, which Mr. Babcock had omitted, but which he thought very important, descriptive of the manner in which the emancipated slaves received the boon of freedom. Mr. Stacy then spoke of the relation the Church has to the subject of slavery, and charged the responsibility of its continuance upon it,. and called upon all the speakers to be personal in the matter.
'If we have whispered truth, we should whisper it no longer,
But speak as the tempest does, sterner and stronger.'
He referred to the testimony of the ï¿½Father of Democracy,' Jefferson, who tells us thatï¿½ one hour of the slave's existence is fraught with more misery than ages of that against which our fore-fathers rose in rebellion.'
A. T. Foss then took the platform, and spoke substantially as follows:ï¿½
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMAN:
I don't know that I care very much what was the testimony of Thomas Jefferson, in regard to slavery. I know he lived and died a slaveholder; and any testimony he may have given against slavery is worth nothing to me. I believe that he, with his contemporaries, had but little idea of the rights of man. Sometimes, it flashed up before them, and they spoke unmeaning words; words that never came from their hearts, and never influenced their lives. 
He now referred to the cause of slavery, and its sustaining influence. We all know it is not self-supporting; and there is not an advocate of slavery who pretends to vindicate it upon its own merits. The heart revolts at it, the understanding denies its claims, and to the affections it is abhorrent.
There has never been an idol deity that has brought one half of the misery upon mankind as has the Moloch of Slavery; before which politicians bow down and worship. Never has there been a god so tyrannical and so bloody in his demands as is this god, which is worshipped in this land.
Now, I pray you, how is all this? How comes it about? To the religion and Christianity of this land I attribute the condition of things. I don't mean such a Christianity as you have in your mind; I don't mean the loving mercy, and dealing justly, and walking humbly with God, and 'doing unto others whatsoever ye would that they should do to you'; a truth which existed centuries and centuries before Christ was born. I don't mean that Christianity which recognizes a Father in heaven, and the brotherhood of man all over the earth. I mean the religion of nineteen hundred years, whose pathway has been wet with blood, by whose influence the earth has been baptized with sorrow. I mean that Christianity which is preached and organized in the forty thousand pulpils of this land-the Christianity which lives in the Sabbath schools, in the Bible Societies, Tract Societies, and in the prayers and sermons of this land. Now, have we had in this land a pure religion, such as God teaches in the shining of the sun; such as God teaches in all the voices of nature, the greater or the lesser ones; as the thunder rolls along the heavens, or as he whispers in the sweetest tones) that come from the throat of the mellowest bird? I mean such a religion as Jesus Christ taught and illustrated. Exactly! He taught the religion of nature. He taught men to rely upon their reason, their understanding, their conscience, and their judgment.
The religion that has no power to prevent the growth; of slavery is a worthless religion. A religion that would not prevent the growth of slavery in this land, have you reason to suppose it would have any power to remove it? And I go farther and say, that the Church has not prevented it, but has been the chief element of its growth. All through the South, just in proportion as the Bible has power at all, it is in favor of slavery. Nearly every pulpit teaches it. 
Mr. Foss related an anecdote in proof of this, and then went on to state that the religion of the North and South are similar. The learned ministers at the South were educated at the North. Andover students have gone to the South, and taught our religion, and that religion works at enslaving men; works out its mission in abolishing marriage, in destroying the family relation, in annihilating the relation of father and mother, of parent and child. I see no material difference between the religion of the North and the South. It is war-making and slaveholding all around. And when a man some from the South, he finds admission to the greater number of the churches in our midst. Though he sells slaves, and puts the money in his pocket, he can join the whole of them, just as he comes, wet with the blood of humanity. On the other hand, if a man goes to the South, he does not need any new conversion there. Hence, the religion of the North and South are identical.
I say to you, there is no power in this religion to redeem the land from slavery. Our manifest work is, to expose the character of this religion-to bring the people from their horrible idolatry to the simplicity of the truth.
Do you want to know what my religion is? The parable of the ï¿½Good Samaritan,' and the ï¿½Golden Rule,' express it. When I admire the beauty that there is in the face-of God, I worship. When I feel the sentiment of sublimity, that always lifts my soul up to God, I worship. When I see man, and recognize him as the son of my Father, as my brother, as the brightest manifestation of divinity, I worship. And I intend to get more and still more of this religion;ï¿½and I hate the false religion, that has stolen 'the livery of the court of heaven to serve the devil in.' I believe our proper work is to convert the American people from a wicked religion to a love of that pure and all-lovely religion as it fell from the lips of Jesus, and as it lives in our inner nature.
I wanted to make this utterance, bold, clear, and unmistakable, for it seems to me if I did not do so, the very stones of the street would cry out.
The meeting was adjourned until 2, P. M. 
AFTERNOON SESSION.
At the appointed hour, PARKER PILLSBURY took the platform, and read the two following resolutions: 
1. Resolved, That the greatest and most important event, thus far, in the present century, is not any grand political triumph, no bloody success in war, no wondrous achievements in the mysterious worlds of science and of art, (almost god-like though they may appear,) nor yet the boasted up-building of a pro-slavery Church, whose frenzied revivals have frequently enlarged her borders, and, multiplied her deluded converts like the drops of the morning; but
<c04>
it is that more sublime and glorious conquest of justice and freedom over unrighteousness and despotism, whose anniversary we this day celebrate, when eight hundred thousand British slaves were born into the enjoyment of the God-given rights, of which, through dreary generations, they and their fathers had been robbed and denied.
2. Resolved, That, while filled with joy at so signal a victory of Liberty over Slavery, in a government of Kings and Queens, we will not for a moment forget, that in this boasted Christian and Democratic Republic, there are four millions of immortal beings still held in a bondage even more dreadful than the world has ever seen, crushed between the Church and Government, as between the upper and the nether mill-stone; and here, as in their terrible presence, and before their righteous God and Judge, we solemnly pledge ourselves to their deliverance; nor will we faint or tire, till our labors are crowned with triumph, or terminated in death. 
After reading these resolutions, Mr. PILLSBURY said:-
I will add a few remarks to the resolutions I have read. It is customary in civilized countries to celebrate important events, the birthdays of great men, sometimes of great women; but it is not customary in this country, with all our boasts of Liberty and Independence, Religion and Civilization, it is not customary to celebrate the event, whose anniversary we are met to-day to observe. In every age, there have been days marked, distinguished from other days by some great occurrence, something which has affected materially the weal or woe of mankind. But to-day is an anniversary, as I think, and as one of my resolutions declare, more important, more justly distinguished than any other ever considered or noticed in this country. We observe the birthday of Daniel Webster, with dinners and suppers, and all sorts of noisy demonstrations; and we celebrate the birthday of Washington, the 4th day of July, and various other days. But I do not know that all these together have so much importance as the event we here commemorate to-day. The destinies of man were materially affected by the life and deeds of Washington. But I do not think the destinies of man have been affected one way or the other by Daniel Webster or Rufus Choate. Daniel Webster is reported to have said in his last speech,ï¿½ I still live;' he did not live much longer; he is pretty much now forgotten. He outlived his usefulness altogether-he does not live in the minds of men. The Commonwealth which he honored, or dishonored, with his life and labors, has long been in doubt what to do with his bronze effigy, which is now in Boston, until at length, by most artful and sagacious management, a reluctant consent has been wrung from the Commonwealth that he may be placed in the public grounds near the Capitol. Yet nobody wants his statue there; and, ere long, people will be asking what it stands there for. The beginning of the life and birthday of such a men as that is of no serious importance to the destinies of man. The country is none the better for his having lived in it. 
When he contributed his avoirdupois to the enriching of the soil, it was his most important bequest. The same is as true of his disciple, who has just been committed to the tomb, Rufus Choate. We buried him at last, and piled a pretty high monument of windy words over him, but then they were only words, and that is a kind of tribute not very valuable nor very lasting. Not for such an event as this have we met. It is the birthday of no such man as this, which we celebrate here to-day. We have come for more important purposes. We have come to celebrate a great triumph of Justice and Humanity; when not only one man was born, but eight hundred thousand men were born out of brutality into manhood, who were roused by the trumpet blast of Freedom, from the grave of Slavery, as triumphantly as Gabriel shall summon the sleeping dead from their graves. They were dead; they now live. They had been murdered by the strong; they have been restored. Our friends, in their very eloquent addresses, read to us the manner in which they received their restoration. 
It was a most glorious triumph worthy of humanity; and God was honored in their first demonstration. Humanity and Justice were no more magnified in their deliverance, than in the manner in which they received their boon of Freedom. Eight hundred thousand born in a day! A most glorious triumph of Justice and Righteousness over oppression and crime. 
Though the road which they travel is narrow, and the travellers are few, they are a great multitude of living, vital humanity. We talk about the number of souls in our country; and I find, by looking at the Census, they make a great mistake in making out as many souls as they find bodies. We have as many souls as we find men and women capable of appreciating this day. The rest are dead in that they have not been born. They are only prophecies of something which may be born out of the womb of the future. They are in their embryo existence, for if we progress from zoophytes till we come to be men and angels, why these multitudes are somewhere on the road. They will get there; it may be in the providence of God, and in the endless ages of eternity. To think that in a country like ours, that on the Fourth of July, the great sabbath day of Freedom, with orators as thick as the croaking frogs of Egypt, and all the noisy, boisterous demonstrations and declarations on that day;ï¿½ with all these, there are but very few in this land who know anything about the 1st day of August, and what it is that makes it greater than even the Fourth day of July. We make use of it as our Thanksgiving day. I believe I once remarked in a meeting somewhat like this, that it would be proper for the Abolitionists to proclaim this as their annual Thanksgiving; then for our annual fast and humiliation, the Fourth day of July. That should be our fast, and this our thanksgiving, for the friends of Freedom and Humanity. I see no impropriety in such an arrangement. I undertake here-though not the Governor of the Commonwealth-I undertake to appoint these two days as such. If any of you feel like saying, ï¿½God save the common wealth of Massachusetts,' why I will say Amen to it, though I think it is asking a great deal. (Cheers.) One of my friends, who spoke here this morning, said that before we could rightly recognize the importance of this day, we must understand the condition, of those eight hundred thousand, and from what they were raised. It is out of our power. I do not suppose we have any language to describe Slavery. It is such a drama of devils as the fancy of man could never possibly describe-such a tragedy of humanity as has never been penned by poets, or conceived of by the most heavenly endowed genius of mankind. What do you suppose would induce one of us to be a slave? What would you, fathers and mothers, take for the liberty, virtue, happiness, prosperity, present and future, of your beloved daughter, who is just blushing into womanhood? At what price might she be bought, and consecrated on the altar of Slavery, and crucified on its terrible cross? You have heard of treasures and honors; you have heard of the world's best gifts and greatest gains; but how many worlds like this do you suppose it would require to purchase all there is of loveliness and virtue and beauty, in the person and mind and soul of your daughter, for the fate of the slave? You have heard of the joys and glories of Heaven, and of their immortality; but if the price of your admittance there was the crucifixion of your daughter on the dreadful cross of Slavery, would you give it? You have read in Milton's ï¿½Paradise Lost,' of the horrors and woes of perdition; you know something of these descriptions, and can conceive of something which might be suffered there; but I know not whether there be a mother in this audience, who would purchase a residence in Heaven, or a deliverance from Hell, at such a price as that.
All the agony, and all the suffering, and all the loss and ruin, desolation and woe, that must be your daughter's in such a condition, all that was the con-
<c05>
dition of every daughter among all that enslaved multitude, through successive generations. 
Now, if you can suppose that you would be hardly willing to purchase a crown in Heaven, that should never fade, at such a price, you will be prepared to conceive somewhat what was the condition of those eight hundred thousand before the 1st of Aug. 1854. 
Somebody has called slavery the ï¿½sum of all villanies;' but, then, that does not amount to, much. We are so accustomed to villany and violence, that they have become household words, commonplace talk. Common villany and common criminality! ï¿½Why, they are the commonest things we have among us! Indeed, they have become so common that it is only uncommon villany that excites any kind of emotion in our bosom. Somebody said it took uncommon liars to tell uncommon lies. Common liars are the every day population of the country and world. The 'sweet singer of Israel' said one time, ï¿½I said in my haste, all men are liars.' If he had; lived in our day, he would not have been in any haste about it (laughter). Slavery is the sum of all villany; that is to say, there is no crime in the calendar of crimes which Slavery does not commit! There is no woe endured on earth which Slavery does not inflict! There is no degradation possible into which Slavery does not plunge its every victim! There is no crime, no curse, no woe, there is no agony or anguish, which Slavery does not constantly perpetrate! No, there is no woe, no weeping, no wailing, no gnashing of teeth, no blasphemy, no cursing, no shrieking, no damnation in the deeps of despair, in the caverns of hell, which Slavery does not sublimate and pour in uncommon wrath upon the heads of its devoted sufferers. But then as I said, there is no language to describe Slavery, consequently there is none to describe the condition of those eight hundred thousand, whose deliverance from such a doom we come here to commemorate. Now then, I think that the deliverance of one such sufferer would be cause for a nation's gratitude. If the angels rejoice over one sinner that repents, what joy and rejoicing ought not to thrill our souls at the restoration of millions from such a fate! And at the deliverance of the eight hundred thou sand, I have no doubt that a new anthem was made, composed in Heaven, and that a grand angelic Oratorio made all the arches ring throughout the galleries of the golden city-of the new Jerusalem. While on the other hand, as we walk along the streets, men ask, 'What is this 1st of August about?' In the Almanac there are remarkable days put down on the calendar page, but there is no remarkable event put down against the 1st of August. Why is it? I have my answer why. If those persons were living men, it would not be thus; but, being dead themselves, they did not hear the angel voice that roused those hundreds of thousands from their slumbers in slavery. The trumpet was loud enough to call those millions to a resurrection life, but it was not loud enough to wake up the priesthood, and, consequently, it did not rouse the people. What does this 1st of August mean? Mr. Chairman, it argues a state of darkness and obliviousness perfectly appalling! We shall never be able to celebrate properly this day, because we have never tasted ourselves, the sacrament of Slaveryï¿½never been baptized with its bloody baptism. One! night I dreamed I was a slave. I think I could not: have lived long, for when I moved, I was in the deepest of agony; and from that time, though I had been an abolitionist, in the common acceptation of the term, I renewed my covenant with them. My first thought then was this: what is the condition of the millions in our country, whose dream of slavery knows no waking? whose nightmare slumber in its awful woe, is only relieved when the friendly hand: of death snatches the spirit shrivelled, from the shrunken body, and bears it away to the bosom of God. 
We will rejoice to-day that. the redemption has come, and that though the government is one of sovereigns and not of presidents, in our estimation is despotic, still it is freer far than is the government of our own country. So much freer, that our fugitives, from bondage are glad to take refuge beneath the paw of the ï¿½British Lion,' rather than be torn in pieces by the bloody beak and terrible talons of the 'American Eagle.' 
Not only is Great Britain freer than our country, but even Austria, who has recently been visited with all the terrible woes of bloody butchery, and whose successes have been failures, in answer to the prayers of Christendom. 
In 1824, by an imperial decree, the government of Austria proclaimed liberty to every captive who should set foot on Austrian soil, or on deck of an Austrian vessel. It has stood ever since in a sublimer position than does the Commonwealth at the present hour. Though they were entreated last year to enact a law that should make the soil of Massachusetts as free as the soil of Austria, your Legislature did not dare to do it. And though at this moment they are crowding to Plymouth, to lay the corner-stone of a monument, and to-morrow will witness a gathering; there from the North and South, East and West, to lay its foundation, the top-stone of which they would fain make one of the fixed stars; yet that rock at Plymouth is no such hallowed ground as the dreariest desert under Austrian despotism to the panting fugitive from American bondage. And we will rejoice that Freedom has a resting place-that there is a city of refuge, and an asylum for the oppressed. We send our fugitives in triumph to Canada. We boast of our underground railroad. I have often said, and I believe it, that in the coming time, the only institution of which we are now so proud will be pointed at as an assurance of our degradation and our uncivilization. Two hundred years ago, we pointed to the laws hanging witches as evidences of our Christian character; that we lived in a land able and willing to swing over the gibbet, to the bed and board of her chosen bridegroom, every homely woman who dared to live a single life, and earn the reputation of being a witch. We point now to the laws hanging witches as assurances not only of a want of civilization, but of Christianity. The time will come when our 'underground railroad' will be just as much a reproach, just as much a laughing-stock, as is Gallows Hill in Salem, the Golgotha in which they broke the necks of harmless, innocent women for witchcraft. 
Our 'Underground Railroad,' of which we are now so proud, and in which so many are fond of buying stock, but on which few are willing to be conductors;ï¿½the time will come when men will read in History of it, and they will wonder if it can be true, that in the afternoon of the nineteenth century, the soil of Massachusetts was not safe enough to shelter a defenceless and innocent woman. We may well rejoice, since that is the condition of our country and this Commonwealth, that there are countries in the world, where freedom has an abiding place, and that the Underground Railroad does exist, and that upon it, as on the highway to heaven, we can send our weary, desolate, despairing pilgrims, to find at last a resting place on Abraham's bosom from the hell of American slavery. But, Mr. Chairman, I shall protract my remarks too far. There is no end to these thoughts, or to the illustrations of them. There is another part of the resolutions equally important to us. I do not know whether you now present are ready to join in the remaining position of the resolutions, or ready to pledge yourselves in behalf of the enslaved; or whether you are satisfied yet that freedom is better than slavery. Well, Mr. Chairman, I can easily suppose that to be true, because I have already affirmed that the reason why the 1st of August is not observed is, because some are not yet born. 
Give a horse his provender, his straw and his blanket, and it is all he asks. Offer him a bag of oats and a bag of gold, and of course he will take the oats;-fool if a he didn't. So if you give a man freedom or provender, if he is a man, he will take freedom. When you offer him the alternative of freedom or death, if
<c06>
he is alive so that he can die, he will say, 'Give me d
Perhaps you are not satisfied yet yourselves that Slavery is not preferable to freedom. Before the British Parliament was ready to obey the voice of the British people, and pass the Emancipation Act, it had to be convinced that the enslavers would be better of, provided you paid them sufficiently, with hired labor than with slave labor. When this was proved Parliament, like other weather-cocks when the wind blows from the north-east turned toward the south-west. That is the kind of morality and economy of most men. Demonstrate to a man that slavery is more profitable than freedom, and he goes for slavery. Demonstrate again that liberty pays better, and he goes for liberty. We are indebted to the church for that morality, for religion is on the same principle. Men are warned to repent, not because there is any virtue in repentance, not because goodness is any better than vice or sin, but because heaven is the reward of the righteous, and hell the doom of the ungodly. Now, if you could only change the position, would there not be a most desperate falling from grace? For the greater part of those who are in what is called the 'straight and narrow road,' are only kept there by the yelling of the hell-hounds on each side of the tract They say, ï¿½You are having your good time now; we should be glad to join you; we are going to have our good time hereafter.' So in regard to slavery in the West Indiesï¿½the idea of freedom for the sake of freedom and justice, for the sake of justice,-why, the commercial world was calculating profit and loss upon it. Now I say we are indebted to the pulpit for that morality. And until we are prepared to give freedom to the slave, at any cost, we are not prepared to celebrate this day. Until a man is prepared to live the life of the righteous, without regard to future reward or retribution, he is not living the life of the righteous. Until a man is willing to do right, without the promise of ï¿½golden pavements,ï¿½ on which is walk in the streets of the ï¿½New Jerusalem'-no matter what the professes, he is yet in the 'gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity.' Until he is willing to do right for the sake of the right,ï¿½heaven, or no heave,ï¿½hell, or no hell,ï¿½he is not doing right at all. When men have to be hired to do right, the very fact shows that the heart is full of all unrighteousness. We are not prepared to celebrate this day, until we have laid aside our slate and pencil, and have done calculating 'profit and loss.' The question of the slaveholder should not be how he shall be compensated, but it will be his agony, day and night, how he can compensate the victims who have suffered so long in his behalf. Suppose the West India Islands had been made desolate; suppose their commerce had wrapped itself in its own shroud, and gone down to sleep forever in the caverns of the ocean; suppose the plantations had become desolate of inhabitants, until all the scenes of Nineveh and Babylon were reproduced-what then? If God said, 'execute justice in the morning, undo these heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free,'-ï¿½then the deed was a rightness deed, and the consequences God will make right in his own good time. I do not know what would be the fate of the slaveholding States in the event of emancipation; but, unless we are prepared to lay aside all such calculations, we are not prepared to celebrate this day. 
Still less are we ready to pledge ourselves in the presence of four millions of slaves, and before their righteous God and Judge, to achieve their deliverance or to sleep in death. There is a solemn consideration connected with this resolution. Why are we hare? For one, I came here, feeling the importance of the day. It seems that in the observance of this day, we stand upon holy ground. I think if the Jews observe their 'passover' with such solemnity, still more solemn and impressive is this hour to us. 
This is the anniversary of that sacred morning, when the 'angel of God' passed over the British West India islands, unlocked the prison doors, and bade every captive go free! It is to me a most religious time, and if ever I am solemn, it is on occasions like this; and if ever I feel like renewing my covenant obligation to God and the enslaved, it is at an hour like this. I have asked this audience at what price they would sell the dearest idol of their heart. None of you can answer. Jesus asked once, ï¿½How much better is a man than a sheep?' The question has never been and answered yet. Human arithmetic can never compute it. The mathematics of heaven are scarcely equal to it. Your child then is of more value than many sparrows. The liberty, the virtue and loveliness, the womanhood and soul immortal of your daughter, who can compute them? There are in our country two millions of the daughters, of the wives, of other two millions of enslaved husbands and fathers. The liberty of every one is worth more than the whole of the material world. We admire the grand and sublime in nature as the handiwork of God. We stand before the <illegible> castle and cathedral of the old world, overwhelmed with delight and admiration, clouded with melancholy and with sadness. But a man enslaved is a greater and a sadder ruin to contemplate! We stand before the thunders of Niagara, penetrated, with astonishment and awe; there is the voice of God; in its thunder he speaks, in its rainbow is the flash of his eye; in its mist is the robe in which he veils his countenance; and we feel like putting off the shoes from our feet before him. In the sight of God, the tear of one poor salve mother, glistening on her care-worn and same browned cheek,ï¿½the sigh she heaves from her <illegible> with anguish,-they are dearer far to God than all the thundering Niagaras of all the worlds that dot, like islands, the boundless ocean of space. And of every child of his is this true. 
I have said there are four millions of them slaves. We have come to celebrate the joyful event in the West Indies, and to pledge ourselves,ï¿½so help us Heaven, and heavenly grace,ï¿½that we will not cause our efforts in behalf of the enslaved, until victory shall crown our labors, or death shall relieve us from them. Saw we ever so holy an hour as this? Did the sun every shine upon more serious and solemn surroundings? The law of God is, 'Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and they neighbor's daughter, as thyself, and the daughter of they bosom.' Now, if heaven is hardly glorious enough to purchase a consent from you, that your daughter should be enslaved, what of the millions who are in slavery?
I fear that but few of us are prepared for the latter part of the resolutions. We can make profession of religion, we can join in the Church, but that means nothing. We can become members of the Republican party, but that does not mean much. Yet it does mean something to belong, heart and soul and life, to the Anti-Slavery cause.
Now, Mr. Chairman, you will bear witness to the truth of what I say, that to become one with the Abolitionists, to labor for the cause of humanity, in a country that has not found out that the 1st of August is a high and holy day, is quite another thing from what it is to belong to the Church. Any body can belong to the Church but honest men and women, and there are not many of them now-a-days. It taken ten times the Christianity to come out of the Church, that it does to go into it. Nobody dares dispute that. I will bring my remarks to a close, commeding that part of the resolution to the consideration, at least, of all who are present. For one, in the strength of God, I am determined to persevere in this warfare until victory shall perch upon my banner, or death shall silence my voice.
Rev. AMORY BATTLES, of Bangor, was here introduced to the audience, and said-
MR. CHAIRMAN-As I listened to Mr. Pillsbury's speech, I asked myself, who is equal to these things-to being this true abolitionist he describes? I felt that I had no right on this platform. Fifteen years ago, I took my first lesson in Milford, of radical Anti-Slavery, of Abby Kelley Foster. I thought it was disgraceful for any one to make such a speech as she 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
delivered. New the scales have partially fallen from my eyes, and I begin, at least, to see this matters as it is.
The speaker here referred to Thomas Fowell Buxton, of England, and his reception of the letter from the West Indies after Emancipation. He knew not whether they contained news of carnage and death,
or of peace and rejoicing. Taking the package in his hand, he went into the woods, and tremblingly opened them. As he read the blessed tidings, he
fell on his knees. ,and thanked God. Nobody who knew human nature would have expected it to be otherwise. It is not in the nature of man to cut the throat of his benefactor. We are told today, that, in this country, if the enslaved should receive their freedom, they would abuse it by cutting their masters throats. But, what of that? Justice is ours, and God will take care of the results, and they will be glorious. We are told that the West Indies Islands are not as flourishing under Freedom as they were under slavery. It is not ture; and every body who knows the effects of Slavery known it. Is it necessary for us to be reminded that we rejoice at the success of the English movement in the emancipation of eight hundred thousand human beings from the thraldom of slavery; Then let us ask our selves the question, how can we equal in our efforts the labors of those noble philanthropists, by whose exertions so glorious a result was secured? How can we wipe out from our country the vile blot that now stains it? Nobody dare say the slaves do not want their freedom. It is a libel upon them; and he who say it, is a hypocrite. The fact that the slave fears the wild beasts of the Southern forests less than he fears an American Christian, denies it. 
Mr. Battles then spoke of the Republican party, and thought it was doing good; but it needed to be born again, before it would be worthy to do the work 
it might perform. He said-We must keep agitating. Only by agitation can be the work progress. We say that agitation shall not cease in Congress until we have our ‘First of August' on American soil. (Cheers.) The democracy and supremacy of man over his incidents-that is abolitionism. And every thing in Church or State that does not stand on the basis of humanity, in God's- name, let us help dig its grave; and we will 
dig it so deep, the Resurrection trump shall not beheard. (Cheers.) That is just where I stand as a minister,,(Cheers.) and where I stand as a man!
Every slaveholder, and apologist for slaveholding, has his conscience corrupted by injustice; and though mighty in numbers, they are weak in principle and power. We have the truth on our side, and need not fear. We shall go on, conquering and to conquer.
Though all act against us, we will stand until we die in body, or gain the victory. Then let us pray that God will bring soon that glorious day-the day of human freedom. (Cheers.)
W .S. HAYWOOD then read a letter from E. H. Haywood, of Boston, which introduced to the audience Mr. WINSOR, one of the Oberlin Rescuers, who took the platform amidst enthusiastic cheering. He said he was very happy, at this unexpected occasion, of meeting the people of Mill ford, and he felt as he stood before them, that their sentiments were akin to his own. He also alluded to the peculiar age in which we live-an age in which the friends of freedom must ‘hush and be quiet,' and fold their arms and be dumb dogs, to watch their masters' houses. He proposed to give, at the evening session, a sketch of the jail- life of the’ ”Rescuers,' &c.
G. W. STACY, at this time, laid on the table a petition for the Personal Liberty Bill, which he hoped all the voters of Milford would sign.
JONATHAN WALKER, the ‘slave savior,' next addressed the audience. He said it had not, for many years past, been his lot to mingle in meetings of this kind, having been located in the ‘far West’ He added his testimony to the sentiments that had been uttered, and was glad the petition had been brought forward, and hoped it would be signed by all who took any interest in the Slave.
Rev. W. G. BABCOCK offered his sympathies in behalf of the young man from Oberlin, and regretted exceedingly that he could not be present, and listen to his account of their welcome home, after having been confined in jail.
Adjourned till 7 1-2, P. M.
EVENING SESSION. The audience was first addressed by W. S. HAYWOOD, of Hopedale. He asked-Why is it needful that we should thus meet together, from time to time, with renewed testimonies in regard to Slavery? Why are these veterans in the cause obliged to go up and down the country, and tell again and again the
story of the Slave's wrongs; Necessity is laid upon us. So long as the Slave is lying in this chains, so long must we utter our testimony, and come up, on the returning anniversary of this event, not only to rejoice with those who have been delivered, but to weep with those who still suffer in bondage. He referred to the atrocities that exist, in this land, saying that Slavery 
was no trifling matter, no mere mistake, no frail error, but a gigantic, stupendous crime. None other more base lifts its tottering head towards heaven. All other petty sins and criminalities are concentrated in the foul and degrading system.
He alluded very strongly to the false pretensions of the church to sanctity, while admitting and fellowshipping the slaveholder. He urged all to toil maniully and faithfully. ,and, having the truth on our side, we ‘shall surely conquer.' Mr. WINSOR was next called upon to gives his narrative. He presented a very thrilling account of the incarceration of himself and friends in the Cleveland jail, their delivery, and their welcome home. It was an era in his life never to be forgotten; and, though young, he was willing to do all in his power to lessen the burdens of the poor slave. 
PARKER PILLSBURY then took the platform, and read the following resolutions, in addition to those of the morning:-
3 .Resolved, That while we rejoice at all the indications of an advancing state of public opinion against Slavery in this country, we would be ever mindful that our greatest danger is not from active slaveholders, and the bold and open defenders of the institution in State and Church, in politics and pulpit;
but, rather, from those who make specious pretensions to Anti-Slavery, like the Republican party, and preeminently the New York Tribune as an organ of it
the Boston American Tract Society, the New England and New York Church Anti-Slavery Society, and the New York Independent, with its array of clerical contributors and editors, that are still in full governmental or ecclesiastical fellowship with slavery and slaveholders.
4.Resolved, That whille these organizations and influences are thus, through their pretensions and professions, able to absorb the awakened public sympathy, control the public charity, paralyze the public conscience, and pervert even well-intended action into channels which flow with compromise, corruption and crime, it is our solemn duty to warn the people against them ,as the most dangerous obstacles to that only radical Anti-Slavery gospel, which can bring deliverance to the enslaved. 
5 .Resolved, That the Under-ground Railroad,' in Massachusetts, is a work of darkness, which ought
not to exist; and we hereby pledge ourselves to besiege the Legislature to discontinue it, by making every inch of soil free, at least, as Canada, Austria,
and all other countries that have given as an asylum to our 
exiled slaves.
Mr .PILLSBURY remarked that he did not know he should be able to continue the interest which had been awakened by the thrilling story of Mr. Winsor, 
who had just been cast into prison for a deed of humanity and justice, such as Heaven approves. He then proceeded to say shall speak more particu
<c02>
larly in regard to the fourth resolution, referring to what really are, and what are not, dangerous obstacles to the anti-slavery cause. I am sorry. to have, in fidelity to what I conceive to be truth, to disappoint the expectations of some, who, in joining them-selves to the Republican party, thought they had really espoused the cause, or united themselves with associations and interests that would aid in the over-throw of Slavery. Now, what is it that hinders the Anti- Slavery cause? 
I am glad to meet our young friend from Ohio, but sorry that he has not a better state of things to report. The Republican party of Ohio are alone responsible for the incarceration of those good men. But, of the two, their deliverance is a thousand times more to be deplored than their confinement. Not that I censure those persons, for they had no hand in it. The Re-publican party thrust them into prison; Democracynay,. Southern kidnappers, brought them out. 
Mr. P. then summed up the manner of the delivery of the’ Oberlin rescuers,' and said that, after all, it was but an exchange of prisoners. The kidnappers found themselves on the way to the penitentiary, for a crime deserving of the scaffold, if any crime is worthy of death. They had vindicated the ‘Fugitive Slave Law,' by keeping those innocent men in jail eighty-five days. So they said, ‘We will let you go, if you will say nothing more about the matter.' Such a deliverance as this, is the most melancholy act in the drama. He himself had a thousand times rather been in the prison, and died there, than to have received such a deliverance as they have enjoyed. Though he was glad to say that such men us rushed to the rescue were not the persons to accept deliverance on dishonorable terms, had it been in their power to do otherwise. 
Leaving Ohio, he proceeded to the general question in connection with the resolutions. One of them declares that our greatest danger is in such influences as the Republican party, and pre-eminently the New York Tribune as the organ of it. Every newspaper, almost, at the North, advertises that paper, and receives daily or weekly for so doing. Now, what is its character? Horace Greeley has just gone to the West, and with you permission, I will here read an extract from one of his letters to the Tribune, in which were given some of his counsels to the people of Kansas. (Reads.) What do you think of that? The Bible is of some importance to the people, but nothing compared to the Tribune. There are some who even believe in the Ten Commandments, but there are vastly more who believe in the New York Tribune. (Laughter.) So you see Horace Greeley says that' the right of suffrage will be given to white EUROPEAN MALES’—and that is Republicanism. Europe, the smallest of the five divisions, and only one half of the population, is to make laws for the whole world, the other half being excluded on account of their sex. That is the best Republicanism of which the country boasts. 
After reading another sketch from one of Mr. Greeley's letters, he said,’ I feel as if I had got here the New Testament of Republicanism (laughter)—the very gospel of glad tidings and great joy, at least to all white MALES' (laughter and applause). 
Mr. PILLSBURY then read another extract from Mr. Greeley's letter, in relation to the next Presidential candidate, which says, ‘Bell or Botts will do, but Bates is better.' It was Mr. P's private opinion, however ever, that neither of them would be the one, but Douglas. 
He then wished to know if he had done Horace Greeley any injustice. He said, ‘I am dealing with your Scripture, the New York Tribune, the New Testament of the day, the very Sermon on the Mount-— Horace Greeley himself its very Messiah.' He thought he did no injustice to Mr. Greeley, or to the Republican party. 
Mr. GODFREY, of Milford, felt called upon to refute some of Mr. Pillsbury's charges, and was invited to the stand. He said, he was an abolitionist from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot; still he thought Mr. Pillsbury's language, in relation to the Republican party, too severe: and that he said behind their backs, what he would not say to their faces.
Mr.PILLSBURY thanked him for his frankness, and hoped if there were others who disagreed, they would speak their minds. Any one acquainted with him knew he was no backbiter. He would tell Henry Wilson and Salmon P. Chase to their faces what he thought of them, and had done so repeatedly. He closed by saying,’ I live in this cause, and I wish to die in it; and then I can say,’ Lord, now let thou thy servant depart in peace!' 
The resolutions were then re-read, and adopted, after much discussion. At a late hour, the meeting adjourned, sine die. 
FIRST OF AUGUST AT FLORENCE, MASS.
FLORENCE, 8th Mo., 5th, 1859. 
DEAR GARRISON: When you have finished reporting your grand celebration at Abington, and have room to notice events of less magnitude, let the readers of the Liberator know that we also, in this back region, had a good time on the memorable First. Though disappointed of some of the help we expected, both in speaking and in singing, we filled up the day and evening with speeches and vocal and instrumental music, in such fashion as to hold together a large assembly, in apparently well pleased attention, through three sessions, closing late at night. 
Our meeting was held in the Pine Grove, well known to all dwellers in and around Florence, and withal, as you may remember, a very pleasant place for such a use. The rough simplicity of our speakers' platform was agreeably relieved by a very large bouquet of flowers and green leaves suspended in front of it, most tastefully arranged by hands which have often ministered here to our sense of the beautiful. Just beside the speakers' platform was another, for a choir of singers, and about twenty or thirty yards distant was a third and higher one, for the instrumental bands, of which two had kindly volunteered their services. One of these was the Florence Brass Band, the other, Bryant's Martial Band, of Chesterfield, which has a high reputation of long standing in all this region. Of the six members comprising it, five are of one family, a father and four sons. Those among us who are reputed the best judges of such matters confirm the verdict of the general voice, that the music of both bands was admirable, and that the singing by a Florence choir, with some aid from Northampton _was particularly so. The selection of songs for the occasion, too, had been made with excellent taste and judgment. All was so good in the musical department, that had we expected only what we had, our satisfaction with it would have been complete. As it was, however, it was mingled with some regret that we could not enjoy the additional treat which the Cummington choir had promised and purposed to give us; and with still more regret for the causes of its failure. The sickness unto death of a child belonging to a family containing three or four important members of the choir, while another member was too unwell to be with us, though earnestly desirous to be here, and while none remained to bear the parts of these necessarily absent members, so weakened the choir that it felt constrained, very reluctantly, to disappoint us But we felt well assured that we had with us the hearts, if not the voices, of our Cummington friends.
Between 10 and 11 A. M., a goodly company of our own villagers and nearer neighbors having already assembled, the sound of martial music announced the approach of the Chesterfield band, which soon after appeared, accompanied by a large delegation of our friends from the hill-towns, mostly from Cummington. As soon as they had reached the ground, and the band had taken its assigned place, the meeting came to order, Joseph B. Whitehouse, resident in Florence, but English by birth, presiding. A piece 
<c03>
was performed by the band, then the choir sung with great spirit and fine effect a song entitled ‘The Gathering of the Free.' The President next called on me for a speech, and I occupied about three quarters of an hour in glancing at the antecedents, history and results of the West India Emancipation, and setting forth the lessons which these topics suggest. Another piece of music from the band and another song from the choir followed, when the President called up President Blanchard of Illinois, who happily was on a visit to the neighborhood, and had come up to our gathering. The abolitionists of twenty or twenty-five years ago will remember well the name of Jonathan Blanchard, as that of one of our ablest, most earnest and efficient co-workers in the lecturing field, during that early period of our enterprise. He had not expected to be able to be with us on this occasion, and had consequently made no preparation to speak, which fact he gave as his apology for giving us an address much shorter than we should have been glad to hear from him. He occupied but about 15 or 20 minutes, after which, and another piece from the band, we adjourned for a two hours' intermission. 
The people scattered, some in small groups in different parts of the grove, refreshed themselves as to the physical man with provisions they had brought with them; others accepted the hospitality tendered by the people of Florence, and withdrew to the houses of their hosts; and the two hours slid quickly by in social enjoyment, rambles in the shade, or whatever each one chose as his method of filling up the interval. 
In the afternoon, the band called us together with the stirring sounds of drum and fife, and opened the exercises as in the morning; the choir gave us, in a style not unworthy of the song, the Marsellaise, and our friend J. A. Howland was introduced, and occupied three quarters of an hour with a plain, clear, forcible and fluent speech, making with pointed directness the practical application, to our country and ourselves, of the lessons taught by British Emancipation. Doubtless many of his hearers dissented from a portion of his remarks, particularly what he said of parties and the Constitution; but he commanded close attention, and I think made a good impression. After another piece from the band, the choir sung’ The Negro's Jubilee,' the song, you remember, which Bleby introduced into his speech at Abington last summer, us having been sung by the emancipated slaves, on the night of their deliverance. I was then called up again, and consumed the rest of the speaking time of the session, in a farther exhibition of the results of emancipation, and in comments on them; when we closed, about 5 o'clock, with music from the Florence band, and adjourned to evening. 
The Chesterfield band, with many of our friends from the hill towns, then left us, escorted through the 
principal street to the end of the village by the Florence band with their’ sonorous metal,' and a long procession of the assembled people. 
In the evening, lanterns were hung among the trees, and after an opening piece from the Florence band, and a song from the choir, speeches, interspersed with singing, were made till after half-past ten o'clock; the audience being nearly or quite as large as at any time during the day; some thought even larger. The
speakers of the evening were a young student of Yale, belonging to Northampton, J. R. Parsons by name; Daniel W. Bond of Canterbury, Ct., now re-
sident here as a school teacher; Eugene Gardner, a young man from Franklin county; L. Beals of Williamsburg, and Messrs. Small, Littlefield, Phelps,
Hammond and Bonney of this place; to which list I may add my own name, as I was called on for a third speech.
Most if not all of these, except myself, are little used to public speaking, but they all acquitted them selves well, and some of them particularly well. I was pleased with my young friend Bond's straightfor ward, home-spun utterance, and hearty earnestness of manner; seeming to say that the thing to be expressed couldn't wait to cull selectest phrases for its expression, but must come right out at once, in the common people's common talk. Bonney was ready, fluent and full of animation; and if not always quite convincing in argument, reason enough for that could be found in the untenable nature of some of the positions he assumed, in criticising those of other speakers. Rhetorically he did well, and logically I dare say he would have done, but for that insuperable difficulty. Young Gardner made a neat and happy speech; brief, pertinent, sensible, sound in doctrine, just in sentiment, chaste in style, his language. well chosen, his manner modest, dignified and graceful. 
Nearly half the evening was spent in a pleasant, animated discussion of points of difference among the speakers, suggested in the first place, evidently, by Howland's remarks in the afternoon. Parsons was earnest and emphatic for the Constitution, and Bonney essayed a sort of qualified defence of the Church; the one imputing to the Democratic party, the pro-slavery character and action of the government; the other attempting to cast from the Church, upon individual wrong-doers therein, the responsibility for the pro-slavery of which, he admitted, there is a lamentable amount within its pale. Small was eloquent for the Republican party, or rather that part of it which he declared to be truly Republican-conceding that some claimed to belong to it who hardly deserved the name-but found himself a good deal embarrassed by a short series of pointed questions propounded to him, and retired under shelter of somewhat vague, not to say evasive answers, and irrelevant, however well merited, eulogies of some distinguished Republicans. Other speakers more or less distinctly expressed or implied concurrence with these in one or another of their views; which, on the other hand, were combatted by Hammond, Bond and myself; the audience apparently enjoying the spice which discussion gave to the proceedings. And so we went on, till it seemed unreasonable to prolong the session farther; and after a hearty vote of thanks to those who had helped us, with song and instrumental music, to enjoy and give interest to the day, we adjourned and dispersed; all seeming to feel that it was good to have been together. 
The Northampton Gazette of the following day-a reporter for which was on the ground-declares our celebration ‘a success in every particular;' adding that ‘everything seemed nicely adapted to the occasion. The music was good, the speaking was good, and, to make a long story short, it was all good.' Which testimony I may conclude with endorsing as also ‘good.' C. C. BURLEIGH. 
LETTER FROM T. W. HIGGINSON. MR. GARRISON,—The reason why I have never mentioned the name of the Spiritualist newspaper in which contributors were requested to say nothing about slavery, was simply this: that the fact occurred several years ago, when the paper was first established-that the person who wrote to me is not now connected with it-—and that its whole policy has been, for aught I know, changed since then. I very seldom see the paper, and have no right to bring any charge against it without farther evidence. I stated at the time that I mentioned the fact merely to show that Spiritualist papers might take as base a position as any other;- and were indeed strongly tempted to do so. But as to bringing the specific charge against any specific paper, it I had not evidence enough; for how unjust it would have been, if the newspaper had repented of the error of its ways, to prejudice the public mind anew against it, under cover of the sin of a previous editor! 
I have always maintained that it is the duty of a reformer to be personal in his charges, so long as great sins are always incarnated in individuals. But to do this involves reformers in a peculiar responsibility; they must be charitable in their judgments, very thorough and accurate in their facts, and never be tempted by excitement into asserting more than they can prove. By one act of carelessness, the noblest man in may forfeit his influence over thousands.
T. W. H. 
<c04>
REVERENCE FOR THE DEAD-CONTEMPT FOR THE LIVING.
PLYMOUTH, Aug. 2, 1859. 
DEAR GARRISON:—Why is it that, as soon as a man is dead, he becomes an object of reverence? Is it not a fact that the religion and politics of New England and of the Nation, on the whole, do little else than excite in the mind reverence for dead men and women, and contempt for those that are living? 
I came here this morning to see the above sentiment illustrated in the celebration of laying the corner-stone of a national monument to the Pilgrims of the Mayflower. I found the town literally decorated with banners, evergreens and flowers, and more people in it from abroad than belong here. Among them several military companies, with hands, and many masonic lodges of various orders. 
After forming a procession, and marching to and fro through the streets several times, all assembled on Monument Hill at 2 P. M., to perform the ceremony of laying the corner-stone. On the platform were Banks, Governor of Massachusetts, Chase, Governor of Ohio, Turner, Governor of Rhode Island, and the Governor of Connecticut, and several others. Banks made a speech on the occasion, eulogizing the Pil­grims, one great aim of which was to show that the experiment of a popular government, that secured equal liberty to all, had been completely successful; a government which taught men to love liberty and hate slavery, for themselves and for all mankind. I stood within a few feet of Banks when he uttered such sentiments. I looked into his face, and when he said it, he seemed to blush as if he was conscious that he was uttering a lie. Four millions of slaves in this government, made and held slaves by its power, arose before his mind,—made and held slaves by his consent—by the consent of the State of Massachusetts-by the Nation; and the fact that there were at that moment, men and women, within a few feet of him, whom the very government and church that professed, as he said, to embody the spirit and principles of the Pilgrims, regard as slaves, and are ready to give up to the party of kidnappers-all these stared Banks in the face, gave the to his assertions, and caused him to blush for his falsehood. I stood amid these four millions of slaves-—made slaves by Massachusetts-as one of them, and from that stand-point heard Banks's speech. It was a tissue of falsehood, viewed from the stand-point of the slave. He ignored the living slave, and eulogised the dead Pilgrims. 
A table was spread under a tent, to dine about 3000 at two dollars each. About 1000 tickets were sold. Not half the tables were occupied, and but a very few (compared to the multitude, kept at a distance, too great to hear,) were allowed to hear the speeches of Chase, Hall, Sumner, and Burlingame, at the table. But the speeches were in keeping with that made by Banks,—contempt for the living, and reverence for the dead, marked them all. Not one dared to rebuke the recreant descendants of the Pilgrims for their enslavement of the Africans.
After all, what truth is there in these laudations of the Pilgrims? These very Pilgrims were the first to set an example of selling the Indians into slavery; of getting the Indians into their power by war, plunder and treachery, and then selling them into West India Slavery. In this, all history agrees. Yet Banks says, they loved liberty, and hated slavery, for them­selves and all of human kind! When he said it, he knew that those Mayflower Pilgrims, by legislative enactment, seized and sold into slavery the rightful owners of the soil. Yet all these speakers called the Pilgrims Christians, saints and martyrs, and the 
Indians,’ murderous and malignant savages.' Before the great God and Father, I had rather be the savage Annawan, or Mctacom, than the praying, slave-trading Pilgrim. 
The corner-stone was laid by a’ Grand Worshipful Master Mason!' He made a speech to show that, probably, there were Masons aboard the Mayflower! I presume those old Pilgrims were present to hear what he and Banks said. I wonder what they thought of it? I thought I saw pity, shame and disgust depicted in their faces. 
Had Banks, Chase, Warren, Turner, Hale, Wilson, Rev. Dr. Storrs, (who made the consecrating prayer over the corner-stone, to dedicate the old rock to God,) and those who were prominent in the proceedings, lived in the days of the Pilgrims, with the same spir­it, principles and character they now possess, what would Carver, Brewster, Winslow, Standish, and the rest have thought of them? Would they have recognized these, their modern eulogists, as true men?— Would they have received them to their Church , They would have served them as they did Wollaston and Gordon.
I am sick unto loathing of a religion that worships the dead, and enslaves, hunts, buys and sells, whips, tortures, and kills the living.
HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
INAUGURATION OF THE WEBSTER
STATUE.
MR. GARRISON,—It has been stated in the newspapers, that it is intended to make this occasion a public celebration, at which the dignitaries of the State and City are expected to be present, and the day to be observed as a holiday. If this is done, it will be a disgrace to the State and the City, and they will justly subject themselves to opprobrium from the civilized world and posterity. What is there in either the public or private character of Mr. Webster, that entitles him to this distinguished honor and mark of respect? Was he known ever to have done any thing in his public life, but with a view to his own personal aggrandizement, and the public favor? Did he ever make any sacrifice of his private interests to the public welfare? Was his moral character irreproachable, and his life exemplary? No one will pretend that they were. Would we hold him up as a model, either as it regards his public or his private virtues, for our young men to imitate? The suggestion is only calculated to provoke a smile of derision. Why then present him in this way as an embodiment of what he is known not to have possessed?
Is the man who, at Niblo's garden at New York some years since, in an address to the people there, said he would execute the provision of the National Constitution relating to fugitive slaves, to use his own language,’ in the fulness of the spirit, and the exactness of the letter,' worthy of such a distinguished honor, from the liberty-loving State of Massachusetts of revolutionary memory? Forbid it, Concord, Lex­ington, Bunker Hill, and even Faneuil Hall! Forbid it, ye sainted spirits of our revolutionary sages and heroes!
Have there been no indications in the providence of God in times past, that he has looked with displeasure at this man, who, by his idolatrous worshippers, was irreverently and impiously styled’ god-like’? Who does not remember, who was alive at that time, the tremendous thunder storm, when the whole heavens blazed with the sheeted lightning through the whole night, preceding the day on which the dinner was given to him at Faneuil Hall, about thirty years since? And which, like the hand-writing at the feast of Belshazzar, seemed to be a striking token of the frowns of Heaven upon the approaching festival! Was there no Providential indication in this occurrence? Was there no Providential interposition also in the fact, that the vessel in which the first statue was shipped was lost at sea, and with her, the statue itself? The pious mind cannot but interpret this as the act of God, and a very significant one too! 
Shall we then proceed sacrilegiously to offend the Divine Being, by a repetition of another act of homage to the man upon whom he has so significantly frowned? And if so, may we not expect that a thunder­ bolt from the throne of the Almighty will dash the ttatue from its base, and shiver it to atoms?
DANEUIL. 
<c05>
GEORGE THOMPSON.
The letters from our beloved friend GEORGE THOMPSON, lately published by us, were written by his Secretary. It gives us much sincere and hearty pleasure to publish the following extract from a letter which he has been able to write with his own hand, addressed to Wendell Phillips, dated July 15, 1859, at South Lambeth, London:
' 
God bless you, my beloved friend, for the most seasonable and munificent benefactions you have been the instrument of forwarding to me, and incline your heart to forgive my silence. If I could describe how providential your remittances were, you would be disposed to ascribe your generous impulse to inspiration. You made me happy and independent at a moment when I was much cast down, and filled with most distressing apprehensions. I cannot thank you and the donors at large in words. God give me life and strength to thank you in deeds! 
In much haste to get to an Anti-Slavery Commit-tee, ever most faithfully and sincerely your friend, GEO. THOMPSON.' 
OXYGENATED BITTERS. A Query. QUBRT. Why will you suffer;? Dyspepsia is but a brief and comprehensive term for the numerous diseases which affect the stomach, liver, and, in fact, the whole human system. Until Dr. Green discovered the Oxygenated Bitters , medical science was at fault, and had exhausted itself in fruitless efforts to cure this disease. The dyspeptic need suffer no longer with a disease that is always painful, and frequently a fatal affliction. 
This unique and peculiar compound will as certainly cure the disease as the disease exists. Had it not this power, such testimony as follows would not be given in its favor:
VALUABLE TESTIMONYTESTTMONY IN FAVOR OF THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Washington (D. WASHINGTON, (D. C.) June 10. Having made use of the Oxygenated Bitters, pre-pared by Dr. George B. Green, of Windsor, Vt., and from knowledge obtained of their efficacy in other cases, we cheerfully recommend them to the public, believing they will fully sustain the recommendation of the proprietor. We hope that this valuable remedy may be accessible to all the afflicted.
SAMUEL S. PHELPS, WILLIAM UPHAM, U. S. Senators from Vermont.
JAMES F. SIMMONS, U. S. Senator from Rhode Island.
J. T. MOREHEAD. U. S. Senator, and formerly Governor of Kentucky.
L. H. ARNOLD, Formerly Governor of' of Rhode Island., WILLIAM WOODBRIDGE,
, Late Governor of Michigan.
 Its success in severe cases of DYSPEPSIA, ASTHMA, and GENERAL DEBILITY OF THE SYSTEM, places it among the most wonderful discoveries in medical science, and has given it a reputation far above any remedy known for these complaints in all their various forms. 
Prepared by SETH FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by all dealers in medicine, everywhere. Aug. 12. 4t
FIRST ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE 
PHILANTHROPIC CONVENTION.
At the Fifth Session of the First Philanthropic Convention, which was held at Utica, N. Y.. in September, 1858, Mr. Giles B. Stebbins, of Rochester, offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:-:—
Resolved, That this Convention become an anniversary, of all who seek wisdom to overcome’ evil with good,' and that the time, place, and arrangements for the next meeting be left to a Committee consisting of ,Ira S. Hitchcock, of Oneida, Dr. Robert T. Hallock and Andrew Jackson Davis, of New York, and Amos Rogers, of Utica.
In accordance with the above resolution, the Committee have completed arrangements for the First Anniversary of the Philanthropic Convention, to be held in St. James Hall, Buffalo, Erie County, on the 16th, 17th and 18th of September, 1859.
' Let no one call God his Father, 
Who calls not Man his Brother.' 
The chief object of those who call this Convention, is to offer an opportunity to the Progressive Friends of Humanity for the deliberate examination and solution of the greatest of problems-—' What is Evil?' We believe that a true knowledge of the causes will lead to a true knowledge of. the cure, of evil in its several forms. Right doing pre-supposes right being. No man, we think, can wisely and unerringly govern him- self, or teach the young, unless his mind be elevated and inspired with a just knowledge of human nature. Theological dogmas and religious creeds cannot impart such knowledge. Heads of Families, Teachers, Legislators, Governors of States, Presidents, Popes, Princes and Kings-—all act upon and crucify mankind with arbitrary Laws, Creeds and Institutions. Con-sequently, the world is indisputably maltreated and everywhere diseased. It is teeming with Discontent, Strife, Selfishness, Intemperance, Slavery and War- —with evils physical, social, political, and religious. And the authentic history of humanity is the history of legalized injustice and ecclesiastical oppression.
In view of all this, and much more, we ask the Friends of Progress-—What can we do to overcome evil with good? What can we do more than is being done to free mankind from the fetters of Superstition, the tyranny of Church craft and the bondage of Statecraft, in their diversified forms? What can we further do to secure to ourselves and children the ad- vantages of a truly spiritual life on earth, without infringing, in the smallest degree, upon the sacred prerogative of individual freedom of opinion and action? 
Lastly, what can we do in the direction of associated and co-operative efforts, to hasten the Era of Justice and Liberty?
Come! Brothers and Sisters, Fathers and Mothers, come! Let us have three days of deliberate consultation, in the spirit of love and good will, to aid one another in the search for practical truth. We hold that the day for Free Conventions has dawned. 
The inward fires of Truth and Reason will flame forth from the summit of these volcanic mountains. They agitate and purify public Opinion. A Free Convention is the mouth-piece of Humane Liberty; the platform whence issue the mandates of unlimited Progress. Spiritualists, Materialists, Jews, Christians, Reformers-—all,. East, West, North, South-—will here- by consider themselves heartily invited. The plat-form of the Philanthropic Convention, at Buffalo, will be free to any mind capable of throwing light upon the Cause and Cure of Evil.
The Convention will open in St. James Hall, Buffalo, N. Y., on Friday, the 16th of September, 1859, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue three days. The following persons, residents of Buffalo, constitute the Committee of Arrangements:
John N. Gardner, Cyrus O. Pool, George Whit-comb, Louise Whitcomb, Alanson Webster, Thomas Rathbun, Sarah Rathbun, E. A. Maynard, Mary F. Davis, J. H. Lusk, Giles Husted, Lester Brooks, W .G. Oliver, E. G. Scott, Benoni S. Brown.
Any member of this Committee can be addressed, by those wishing to secure accommodation in advance, at Hotels and Private Boarding Houses. The Hall procured for this occasion is convenient and commodious, seating comfortably 2000 persons. The friends of Reform in Buffalo and vicinity, will do all in their power to entertain strangers, and to aid the objects of the Convention; and the locality of their beautiful city is so central, that Reformers from all quarters can reach it readily, and at small expense.
The Committee have made favorable terms with Wards's Line of Steamers, as follows: From Toledo to Buffalo and return, $4,00; from Sandusky and return, $3,50; from Cleveland and return, $2.00, (Meals and Berths included.) A corresponding reduction of fare for persons attending the Convention will probably be effected on the New York & Erie Railroad.
A Quartette Club of Singers is engaged to be present, and will enliven each session with appropriate music.
ANNIVERSARY NOTICE.
, The Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the WESTWEST ERN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at ALLI-ANCE, Stark Co., Ohio, commencing on Saturday, the 3d of September, at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M and will probably continue three days. 
Earnestly, then, and cordially, we invite the true friends of the slave to assemble with us at our anniversary for counsel and labor. Let come together in the name of Liberty, and by our words and deeds, so strive to exalt man above institutions, humanity above creeds, that the slave's cause will receive a new impetus at oar our hands. 
Beside our home speakers, Parker PILLSBURY is
is expected to be present, and perhaps other friends reform the East. 
BENJ. S. JONES, Rec. Sec'y. 
<c06>
STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. The Abolition Convention of Vermont will hold its first annual anniversary at West Randolph, on Wednesday and Thursday,. August 31st., and September 1st, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., Wednesday.
 The platform of this Convention allows an equal and just proportion of time to all persons of whatever sect, party or denomination; and all are invited to take part in its deliberations. 
Prominent persons are expected from the different parts of this State, and also from New Hampshire and Massachusetts. 
Among the earnest and, eloquent speakers already engaged tnto come are C. L. Remond of Massachusetts, and Rev. Andrew . Foss  of New Hampshire. JEHIEL CLAFLIN, B. W. DYER,
ENOCH HEBARD. Committees. ,N. R. JOHNSTON, J. M. COBURN, Committee. Aug. 5, 1859. 
WILBERFORCE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.-.—A meeting in commemoration of the labors of William Wilberforce WILLIAM WILBERFORCE in the great work of Emancipation will be held in Friends' Meeting-House Grove, FRIENDS' MEETING-HOUSE GROVE. Easton, Washington Co., N. Y., on Saturday and Sunday, Aug. 27 and 28, 1859.
Parker Pillsburt, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Aaron M. Powell, Leonard Gibbs, Susan 
PARKER PILLSBURY, Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, AARON M. POWELL, I.EONARD GIBBS, SUSAN B. Anthony and others will address the meeting.
 Sessions at 11, A. M.,.. and 2, P. M.
 There will be a short recess for refreshments in the Grove.
 Let there be a grand gathering of the friends of the slave.
 Should the weather prove unfavorable, the meeting will be held in the meeting-house. 
SALLIE HOLLEY,. an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the State of Maine, for several weeks to come, commencing as* follows:-:— 
Portland, Sunday, August 14.	 
Buxton, Tuesday, August 16. 
Limington, Thursday, August 18. 
South Bridgton, Sunday, August 21. 
Mechanic Falls, Tuesday , August 23. 
Paris, Thursday, August 25.26. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Weare,. N. H., Sunday, Aug. 14.
Milford. N. H.Alron, Sunday, Aug 21.
Milford. Sunday, Aug 28.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Walpole, 
Saturday evening, Aug. 20. 
East Walpole, Sunday, evening, Aug 21. 
BLACKSTONE. Parker Pillsbury.—PARKER PILLSBURY will
will speak at Blackstone on Sunday, Aug. 14,-,—A. M. on Slavery, 5 P. M. on the French Revolution.

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL. 
THIS Institution is designed to combine thorough instruction in Science, Art, and Literature, with judicious training of the physical and moral nature. To secure the children and youth, resorting to it for educational purposes, such home and neighborhood influences, together with such specific culture as may be promotive of positive growth in virtue and true excellence, is its sacred aim. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely mainly upon the patronage of those sympathizing with the better tendencies and movements of the age for support. 
The First Term of the Scholastic Year 1859-60 commences on Wednesday, Sept. 9, and continues Fifteen Weeks. 
For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals, Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
 W. S. HAYWOOD,} A. S. HAYWOOD, }Principals.
 Aug. 10. 3w 
WEST NEWTON
NEWTON English and Classical School. 
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of Nathaniel T. Allen. NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each.
 TEACHERS.
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,. Principal. Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
• CYRUS PEIRCE., Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy.
 WILLIAM F. ALLEN.
 Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature. GEORGE F. ALLEN,}
M ANNA C. BASSETT, }Assistants. Assistants. B. F. BAKER,
, Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music. E. L. MERRILL,
, Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing. SARAH K.R. BASSETT,
, Teacher of the Primary Department.
'Father Pelrce' Is 
Father Peirce’ is at present prevented by ill health  from giving instruction in his department. 
The Messrs. Allen will receive a limited number of pupils into their families. It is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N. T. Allen; West Newton, Mass.
REFERENCES.
REFERENCE. Rev. E. S. Gannet, D. D., Wm.- Brigham, Esq.,.. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq ., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Charlestown; Prof. L. Agaasiz, Cambridge.
Aug. 12. 5t 
FEDERAL TYRANNY!
THIRTY-SEVEN MEN, Lawyers, Doctors, Ministers,. Legislators and Men of Business, arrested and dragged to a Felon's Prison; their only offence being a compliance with those divine injunctions,’ injections, Feed the hungry and clothe the naked,' and,' ’As ye would that others should do to you, do ye even so to them.' 
WE HAVE IN PRESS, And shall publish, about the 20th of July,
, A COMPLETE HISTORY
of HISTORY OF THE
Oberlin-Wellington Rescue,
THE OBERLIN-WELLINGTON RESCUE, And the cruel persecution of the noble men who chose to obey God rather than man. A most in mous chapter in American History, which succeeding generations will wish to have expunged. Thiaexpunnged. This volume comprises a full account of the rescue, incarcerate trials 
READ IT, AMERICANS,
And MOURN over your country's degradation; scatter it broadcast over the land, that a SLAVOCRAT1C NATION may see the depth of depravity and wickedness into which it has fallen, and arouse, repeat and reform.
We want 1000 100 active, whole souled Agents to sell this book. Price , 50 cents, $4 .50 per dozen, and $38 per 100 in paper covers, and 75 cts per 100 bound, in cloth.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
 20 Washington street, Boston. July 15. 44 wis
WORCESTER WATER-CURE.
 DR. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, where her ha has spent several months in medical observations, will resume, after July 1, 1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution. May 27. 3m
WOMAN'S SIGHTSWOMEN RIGHT MEETING. A FULL Report of the Woman's Bightswoman's Rights Meeting at Mercantile Hall, May 27. Speeches by Mrs. Severance, SEVERANCE, Mrs. Dall, Wendell Phillips. DALL,WENDELL PHILLIPS, and others. Just published by S. URBINO, 10 Winter street, (up stairs.)
 July 8. 6w

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
From Chambers' Journal.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
The drums are all muffled; the bugles are still;
There's a pause in the valley, a halt on the hill;
And bearers of standards swerve back with a thrill
Where sheaves of the dead bar the way;
For a great field is reaped, Heaven's garners to fill,
And stern Death holds his harvest to-day.
There's a voice on the wind like the spirit's low cry-
'Tis the master-roll sounding-and who shall reply
For those whose wan faces glare white to the sky,
With eyes fixed so steadfast and dimly,
As they wait that last trump which they may not delay 
Whose hands clutch the sword-hilt so grimly?
The brave heads, late lifted, are solemnly bowed,
While the riderless chargers stand quivering and cowed;
As the burial requiem is chanted aloud,
The groans of the death -stricken drowning;
While Victory looks on, like a queen, pale and proud, 
Who awaits till the morrow her crowning.
There is no mocking blazon, as clay sinks to clay;
The vain pomps of the peace-time are all swept away
In the terrible face of the dread battle-day;
Nor coffins nor shroudings are here;
Only relics that lay where thickest the fray-
A rent casque and a headless spear. 
Far away, tramp on tramp, peals the march of the foe,
Like a storm-wave's retreating-spent, fitful and slow;
With sound like their spirits that faint as they go
By yon red-glowing river, whose waters
Shall darken with sorrow the land where they flow
To the eyes of her desolate daughters. 
They are fled-they are gone; but oh, not as they came,
In the pride of those numbers they staked on the game;
Never more shall they stand in the vanguard of fame,
Never lift the stained sword which they drew;
Never more shall they boast of a glorious name,
Never march with the feal and the true. 
Where the wreck of our legions lay stranded and lorn,
They stole on our ranks in the mists of the morn;
Like the giant of Gaza, their strength it was shorn
Ere those mists had rolled up to the sky;
From the flash of our steel a new day-break seemed born,
As we sprung up, to conquer or die.
The tumult is silenced; the death-lots are east;
And the heroes of battle are slumbering their last.
Do ye dream of yon pale form that rode on the blast?
Would ye free it once more, O ye brave?
Yes! the broad road to honor is red where ye past,
And of Glory ye asked but-a grave. 

PEACE AND WAR. 
BY JOSEPH BARBER.
On fair Sardina's fields and streams
The tender Spring-light lay;
The tranquil earth was bathed in beams
Soft as the sunlight of our dreams,-
This was but yesterday. 
The tinkling bells of grazing herds,
The bleat of goats, the songs of birds,
The herdsman's carol gay,
Rose like a sweet spontaneous psalm
Toward the blue heaven so pure and calm-
This was but yesterday. 
On Lake Maggiore's breast of light
The fisher spread his wings of white
To seek his shiny prey;
In olive grove and vineyard fine
The peasant pruned the tree and vine-
This was but yesterday. 
God seemed to smile on all the land,
Its fairy vales, its mountains grand,
Its people bold and gay;
Peace arched the clouds with shining bow,
Peace beautified the earth below-
This was but yesterday. 
To-day, the mad Briareus, War,
Storms through those scenes on flaming car-
The peasants, where are they?
Through grove and vineyard sweep the guns,
And from the Press of Slaughter runs
The Wine of Life to-day. 
The herdsman's hut, the trim chateau-
What marks their sites?-a lurid glow,
Or jet of fiery spray!
And ah! in place of tinkling bells,
The air is rent with furious yells
And hissing shot to-day. 
The olive groves are falling fast
Before the salvo's deadly blast-
Fit victims of the fray;
For oh! what should the olive do,
When Peace, for whom its branches grew,
It crucified to-day?

MAGENTA.
Under the willows; in the trampled maize;
Midst up-torn vines, and shattered mulberry rows;
In rice-fields, corn-fields, dykes and dusty ways,
And cottage crofts, where the gold gourd-flower blows
Swathes of Death's scythe, wielded for two long days-
The dead lie thick and still: foes all at peace with foes. 
So many nameless! no need of glory
For all this blood, so freely pour'd, is theirs;
Yet each life here link'd many in its story
Of hopes and loves and hates, of joys and cares.
Of these unhonor'd sleepers, grim and gory,
Who knows out of the world how much each with him bears? 
These were all sons or sires; husbands or brothers;
Bread-winners, most of them, for homes afar.
This a sick father's stay; that a blind mother's;
For him, in Paris, 'neath the evening star,
A loving heart its care in labor smothers, 
Till taught, by arms of price, how far they strike- how far! 
Cry! let the poor soul wrestle with the woe
Of that bereavement. Who takes thought of her?
Through the illumined streets the triumphs go;
Under her window waving banners stir,
And shouting crowds to Notre Dame that flow,
Hide, mourner, hide the tears which might such triumphs blur!
London 'Once-a-Week.' TOM TAYLOR

From the Christian Inquirer.
THE TRAITOR.
BY PHORE CARY,
Nay. blame her not, you cannot know
How long she struggled ere she fell;
And what temptation came to her
No mortal bat herself can tell.
And she was weak, and sin is strong;
Yet had she never fallen so low,
But for the secret treachery
Of one she never deemed her foe.
While fearfully assailed without,
Her unsuspected heart within
Turned traitor to herself, and made
An awful covenant with sin.
<c02>
The Liberator
DEATH OF RUFUS CHOATE. No. II.
Dr. Adams's Funeral Address.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I take up my pen to fulfil the promise I made you last week of some strictures upon this remarkable performance. Of its diction, which was very beautiful, I have nothing to say. Of its ethics only do I propose to speak.
It seems not a little singular that the very first passage of Scripture in the beautiful chant which preceded it, was spoken of a people of whom it was said-' Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on his lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither hath he gone into captivity; therefore his taste remained in him, and his scent is not changed-(or, as Dr. Adams declared of his distinguished parishioner, ' He was no changeling in any thing.') Then, of course, he was no saint, for the Doctor teaches that a man must be a changeling-' must be born again'-to become a Christian. 'Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will send unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander; and shall empty his vessels, and break his bottles.' So hath the Lord sent unto such conservatives as Mr. Choate ever was, wanderers,-like his esteemed pastor, Dr. South-Side Adams,-who have caused them to wander. 'How say ye. We are mighty and strong men for the wars?' (This is the boast of the Doctor and his numerous peers; but God inquired, ' How, or by what authority, do ye say this?' 'Moab is spoiled, and gone up out of her cities, and his chosen young men are gone to the slaughter, saith the King, who is the Lord of Hosts.' (How many of our choicest young men have been led to the political or ecclesiastical slaughter by the teachings and examples of such men as Rufus Choate and his distinguished eulogist!) 'The calamity of Mob it near to come, and his affliction hasteth fast.' What a picture is here of the condition of the political and religious organizations of the present time,-well represented by Mr. Choate And Dr. Adams,-and of the fearful doom which awaits them!
Now comes the first passage in the chant: ' All ye that are about him,-Moab, alias Choate,-bemoan him; and all ye that know his name say, How is the strong staff (or he who might have been such,) broken, and the beautiful rod.' (See Jer., 48th chapter.) The whole is a graphic representation of the state of things in the American Church and Government. This, perhaps the Doctor did not discover when he made his selection.
It seems equally singular that Dr. Adams should have commenced his address with a quotation from the Scriptures, (of which, I think, he was wholly unconscious,) every way so appropriate to the occasion. The passage is found in II. Samuel, i. 19: ' The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places.' Now, to appreciate this passage, three things should be considered: 1st. Who was Israel here spoken of? 2d. Who was the beauty of Israel who had been slain? And, 3d, who uttered it?
1st. Who was Israel? They were a belligerent, blood-thirsty, rebellious people, of whom God said- ' I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib; but Israel doth not I know, my people doth not consider. Ah! sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evil doers, children that are corrupted! they have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away, backward.' (Isaiah i., 1, 3. 4.) ' Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, it is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways; unto whom I swear in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.' (Ps. exv. 10, 11.)
2d. Who was 'the beauty of Israel,' who had been slain? It was Saul, that noted Spiritualist of his time, who, when he could not get access to God, consulted the dead, through a celebrated female medium of that age, familiarly known as the ' Witch of Endor.' (See I. Samuel, xxviii, 3 to 14. Does Dr. Adams consider such men the beauty of all Israel, which he represents-? It was Saul, of whom it was said, 'Saul has slain his thousands.' It was Saul, of whom Samuel said, 'Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king.' (See I. Samuel, xv. 23.) It was he who, when he had been wounded in battle by the archers, (whom he was striving hard to kill,) fell upon his own sword, and thus died a suicide, as well as a murderer.' (See I. Samuel, xxxi., 3 to 6.)
And who uttered the Doctor's text? It was David, who, just before doing so, had deliberately put to death an innocent young man who had brought to him tidings of the death of Saul. Read, with care, II. Samuel, i., 1 to 15. It was David, of whom it was said-' David has slain his ten thousands.' It was David, who placed Uriah in the forefront of the battle, so that he might be the more sure to lose his life. See II. Samuel, ii, 14 to 17. It was David, whom God would not allow to build him a house, because ' he had shed blood abundantly, and had made great wars; because he had shed much blood on the earth in his sight.' (See I. Chr., xiii., 6 to 8.)
Now, if Dr. Adams wishes to have it understood that the Israel spoken of in his text was the prototype of those who claim to be the Israel of to-day, that Saul, the beauty of ' ancient Israel,' was the prototype of the illustrious subject of His eulogy, and that David, (Saul's eulogist,) was the prototype of his Reverence, he will find endorsers in a quarter where he least expected it. But, if he wishes us to understand him otherwise, we shall respectfully decline accepting his exegesis, keeping in mind that God has said-' If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain; if thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not He that pondereth the heart consider it? and He that keepeth thy soul, doth not He know it? and shall not He render to every man according to his works ?' (See Prov. xxvi. 11., 12.)
Other strictures are reserved for a future communication.
Yours, for the truth,
Boston, Aug. 1, 1859. JUSTITIA.

THE LIVING PRESENT-THE DEAD PAST.
STEAMER EMPIRE STATE, 
East River. N. Y., July 27, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
We have just passed through Hellgate, in an earnest and animated discussion on The Living Present and the Dead Past. Some two hundred passengers on board. Many slave-hunters, male and female, going to Newport to recreate themselves, and inquire the whereabouts of those whom the Christians (?) and Republicans of the North have consented to allow them to kidnap. 
What eulogies they lavish on the dead! How they curse the living! To hear them talk of the dead Washington, the dead Jefferson, the dead Franklin, the dead Pilgrims, and many others, who, as to corporeal presence, are dead, and then to hear them speak of the living, you would suppose that veneration for the dead, and contempt for the living, constituted the basis of their character, and that, in their view, the living ' have no rights which any man is bound to respect,' and that the dead alone have any claim to their regard.
Is not this, in fact, the most prominent feature in American character? Is not this the direct and necessary tendency of our literary, social and political institutions, to inspire respect for the dead, and contempt for the living? See how living men, women and children are treated at home, in the school, in social circles, in commerce, in legislatures, and in courts!
<c03>
Their persons and rights, their bodies and souls, outraged; their lives, their affections and natural relations all despised. Hundreds of millions of dollars expended annually to furnish swords, guns, whips and fetters to scourge, mutilate and kill the living, and train assassins and ruffians thus to outrage the living-while thousands of millions are expended to inspire the people with respect for the dead. The surest way to civil and social promotion and honor is to steal, buy and sell, hunt, mutilate and slaughter living men, women and children, and at the same time exhaust your energies in love and homage to the dead.
What is the Church but a power, whose great object of existence is, to call the attention of the people away from the Living Present, and direct it to the Dead Past, or to some intangible, unreal future? The Church and clergy of this nation ignore the obligations of men to the Living Present, and speak only of obligations to the Dead Past. What are four millions of slaves, with all their anguish, their tears, their agonies, compared to the sorrows, the suffering and sacrifices of dead saints and heroes? Nothing at all, in the estimation of those who are the recognized Christians and priests of this nation? The pulpits of this land utter ten thousand words about the sufferings and sacrifices of the dead, where they utter one touching the sufferings of the living victims of slavery, or drunkenness, or prostitution.
What is that religion good for, whose great aim is to divert all eyes from the Living Present to the Dead Past?-to pass by the living in contemptuous silence, and to excite reverence for the dead? What are the sufferings and sacrifices of the dead to me? As corporeal men and women, they have no wants that I can supply-no sufferings that I can relieve-no anguish of soul that I can alleviate. As corporeal men and women, their anguish and their sufferings have ended. But all about me are men, women and children, whose anguish and sufferings, that I can relieve, are now living facts.
What are the agony and sufferings of Christ to me? Nothing; they are past. He needs no sympathy, no help from me. His spirit, his teachings, and his example are much to me; but all sympathy expressed on account of his sufferings is utterly lost. Those who weep most over his sufferings have least regard for the spirit of love, forgiveness, justice and humanity, which he illustrated in his holy life.
Four millions of slaves lie at the door of South-Side Adams's church in Boston, held and used as beasts-scourged, hunted, shot, and torn by dogs; their souls and bodies tortured and filled with anguish-without hope, without home-without marriage, and trodden under foot as dust. But that Reverend South-Side priest passes those living sufferers by, and enters his pulpit and points his people to the sufferings and anguish of the Martyr of Calvary, as more deserving their sympathy and their concern, than the anguish and tears of these millions of living men and women! Anxiety for the Dead Past-indifference to the Living Present! How long shall such a religion curse the world? Oh Lord! how long? HENRY C. WRIGHT. 

A FAITHFUL MINISTER.
HAVERHILL, August 1st, 1859.
DEAR LIBERATOR:
You may be pleased to know that the Anniversary of Emancipation in the West Indies was appropriately noticed in one of our pulpits yesterday. Rev. Mr. Clark, pastor of the Unitarian Society, preached a grand discourse upon Emancipation. It was an elaborate and highly-finished production, and parts of it were eloquent. He reflected severely upon the fact that this occasion received so little notice; no other pulpit in town was announced to speak of the subject; and but very few public gatherings would be held in America, while we celebrate everything else, from the finishing of a railroad to the success of a chess-player. He contrasted the occasion with the 4th of July, and showed how superior it is to that anniversary. He gave a brief sketch of the Anti-Slavery movement in England, and of the effect of Emancipation upon the population and prosperity of the islands. He closed by drawing three lessons from the success of the Emancipation movement-faith, effort and patience. The closing passage was very fine. The sermon was listened to with closest attention by a large audience. Ministers are such a trimming race, that it is best to notice the few instances of fidelity. They are precious few here.
Yours, A HEARER. 

LETTER FROM REV. SAMUEL JOHNSON, 
PASTOR OF THE FREE CHURCH, LYNN, MASS., 
To the late Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends.
SALEM, Mass., May 23d, 1859.
DEAR FRIENDS:- Although, in your noble zeal for progress, you may not specially emphasize your belief that the principles you stand on are conclusive and not to be revised, no reasonable person can fail to recognize it more clearly than if you had set it forth in the distinctness of an Article of Faith. There is no mistaking the tone in which you pronounce judgment on the shortcomings and the sins. You manifestly know yourselves to be rebuking spurious finalities in the name and by the authority of real ones. You are armed in moral intuitions which argument can neither mend nor mar. Your very faith in free discussion goes upon the prior confidence that these must stand forever. The intensest dogmatism of the creeds is positive fear and distrust, in comparison with this absoluteness of conviction, which is nevertheless fond of crying out for progress as for daily bread from God. Their traditional 'Evidences,' paraded as the sole grounds of religious certainty, are shivering with secret presentiments of ruin, while your living assurance is strong enough to welcome freest criticism, and to throw the doors wide open to every promise and to every frown.
For so it is. All vital convictions are of things immutable. All genuine progress is rooted in a finality of which dogmatism is but a feeble counterfeit. But this is not the whole secret. There is one eternal condition on which progress is more dependent than upon any definite belief. And you can well dispense with all claim to doctrinal infallibility, all permanent confession of faith, so long as your circle is thrilling with the unspoken pledge, above all things to love Truth.
Herein is your especial title to the gratitude of the community. When men have grown so familiar with the preaching of the highest principles that they dare to treat them as old trumpery they are weary of having about them, it is plain that they are in need of something else than to be told what they should believe. Who shall break that spell of unconcern, which is deadlier than any ignorance, because it has no desire to be taught? Who shall stir in all of us the needed shame of being deluded as to the condition of the nation and the neighborhood, the needed longing to stand lace to face with the facts of duty as they are? Who shall teach us, so that we cannot shuffle it aside, what this means, that no falsehood can possibly harm us, for one moment? Open, barefaced wickedness provokes its own antidote. But what shall be done with the subtle stupefaction which creeps over the better instincts themselves? When thousands of well-disposed persons are the ready victims of such a paltry trick for binding the Free to the Slave States, as this of feeding Southern shambles with contributions of Northern patriotism, to build sepulchres of the Fathers upon soil stained to its granite foundations with the blood of the oppressed; when thousands of intelligent women, truthful and tenderhearted, declare that they have no interest in politics, as if the political gambling by which youth is deluded and manhood wrecked past all calculation, had meaning for sons and husbands, and yet none for mothers and wives; when the help which such persons would naturally give to every effort for justice 
<c04>
to woman is not given simply for lack of interest to inquire into a state of things which, in the great cities, is making statistics bristle with horrors; when facts like these are among the least guilty as well as the commonest forms of moral indifference, surely the in- dispensable thing is not the precept upon precept of truths heard and disregarded a thousand times over, but the sight of men and women whose consciences, give them no rest while one false or perverted social relation remains uncorrected. and who cannot endure, the presence of a delusion or a lie. Deeper than doctrine must go the spur that is to rouse the great hosts of the indolent, the conventional, the frivolous, the self-satisfied, the moral cowards, and the theological, slaves.
 Theologies and philosophies profess to save men. But what shall save the theologies and the philosophies, even the best? What becomes of the system which the love of truth does not continually recast in the latest science and the freshest piety, in the larger meanings and the grander tasks? the whitest manna, kept over night, was not a kind of stock to be desired. It is as easy to die by the dead letter of a higher knowledge as of a lower. Docs not the mummy of the philosopher rest in the catacombs beside the mummy of the fool? To hold that God is spent and Truth a bygone revelation, is to lie down in the mummy-pits, where ape and scholar, dog and priest are one.
A tradition left unvisited by the love of truth-how the heart silently dies out of it, leaving a shell so ghastly and desolate, that when you rightly describe it, no man will confess that he belongs or has ever lived therein! Take an illustration from the history of Doctrine. What has become of that old endeavor, natural enough when it began, at some time in the second century of Christianity, to elevate a man into the place of God, and then to pronounce and keep the dogma final? It has resulted in the honest confession of one of the best representatives of the popular religious belief-that the Father is to him but an intangible effluence from Jesus, who alone is his God. Was anything else to be expected? There was plainly but this alternative. Either the thought of Divine Presence, thus crudely conceived, must be permitted to grow with the higher consciousness which lay folded in it, of an inspiration not limited to person and place, or whatsoever of the Infinite substance was really associated with the doctrine must fade out of it, giving way more and more to the substituted Finite. If Jesus is God, then how or why should there be any other God than Jesus? Or why run out into the unconditioned and inconceivable, to find the Life of the World? But who will accept this startling version of Christianity?" Better believe with Theodore Parker," cries horror-stricken Orthodoxy? "It is Trinitarianism caught in its own toils," cries Unitarianism, in equal repudiation. And yet, if you leave formal terms and come to practical meanings, I see not how it can be denied that Mr. Beecher has but stated the substantial faith of the "liberal" and "evangelical" sects alike. No verbal distinctions can hide the fact, that their common preaching of Jesus as the express image of God, their common assumption that he has exhausted the possibilities of goodness, their sensitiveness to every whisper of doubt respecting his supposed mediatorial functions or miraculous powers-in a word the concentration of all worship, rite and creed, of all religious thought and conversation about this one overshadowing Manhood-amounts substantially to Mr. Beecher's instinctive confession of faith. Here, as far as I can see, is the one practical fact that swallows up their superficial and purely technical differences-that whatsoever can be known of God is believed to be revealed in and through the person of Jesus, and is identified therewith: that the devout Pantheism of the Apostle's vision, his 'God all in all,' is lost in the exclusive deification of one historical personage; that the Father, All-wise, All-good, in whose infinity we live and move, and have our being, has become a dreamy effluence from a human life, lived two thousand years ago. What if only a man here and there has the valor and the plainness of speech to speak out, as Mr. Beecher does, the sad secret of the Church's heart, or even the self-knowledge to be conscious of it? None the less patent is this instance of a belief, exhausted of its vitality, and turned against the simplicity of the religious sentiment, by reason of being left unvisited by the instinct of progress, of being put in place of the love of truth, instead of submitting to its tests. 
But we may not judge men's spiritual attainment by the form of their belief. Here is an illustration of quite another kind, but to similar purpose: 
The American Colonies threw off fetters from their own limbs, and called it striking for universal liberty. The next age would fain correct the error, by breaking the bonds of a race they, for their own interests, left enslaved. But the children have chosen to rest in the old definitions; and so, mark the consequence, even these are turned to bluster and babble, mere windy inflation and collapse. The conscience, fastened to the constitutional tyranny, as the fathers were to the royal, yet not daring, as they did, to break the spell, sits down to trembling calculations which they would have spurned. When the legislators of Massachusetts hesitate, upon a constitutional scruple, to decree that it shall never go to juries upon her soil to determine whether she will surrender a pure woman, soul and body, to a plantation ruffian,-when there is such severity of conscience as to the sacredness of an oath to this Union with the ' sum of all villanies,' and such debility of conscience as to that inevitable and eternal oath of human nature to justice and mercy,-need you go further to find bitter proof that there is no form of liberty, which can become inert tradition, standing in place of the earnestness which should be testing and judging it, without burying the conscience in unutterable sin and shame?
Every system of Theology and Philosophy lays down some ultimate authority for its disciples-points to some court of final appeal. How diverse, often irreconcilable, these are! In Philosophy it is the senses, or the necessary conceptions of the reason, or the common consciousness of mankind. In Theology it is the Bible, or the well-developed conscience, or the spiritual constitution, with its holy intuitions and needs. Some of these are better some are worse fitted to serve the end proposed. To rest on the senses as the only! ground of certainty is to fall into absolute skepticism, as the history of Philosophy amply proves. The! ' necessary conceptions' of the metaphysician, how-ever reasonable, are apt to be cobweb notions, which make no substantial bridge from being to existence, from thought to life; while the 'common sense of mankind,' on the other hand, is surely reliable, if you know but how to find it; and reasoning cannot go behind its testimonies. There is no less difference in! the worth of the Theological postulates. I cannot go to the Bible as court of final appeal. If my moral sense did not sit in judgment on the Bible, its contradictions would kill my soul; and I might as well fall down before the Pope of Rome or the Pagan of Washington. The well-developed conscience is surely firm ground to stand on. But underneath that lie the intuitions and needs of the spiritual nature, which must ' be followed as we would the God who made us, and whose constant word they are. But what if I have, forgotten that still deeper foundation, whereon, if I do, not keep myself planted, all these alike are vain? Where is the system which lays down the Love of Truth as the final principle, as the life and the way of all others? And yet this it the vary organ by which "we behold truth, and he who is blind here is altogether wrapped in night. This is the love that educates all other loves to breadth and clearness- and holiness. There can be no infallible authority to step in behind this. It will not endure such bonds, nor does it need them. If we have it not, there is nothing which can teach us. If we have it, there is nothing which can mislead us far, or delude as long. Better could 
<c05>
we afford to forget all the Bibles and all the heroisms that have blessed the world, better afford to let go out of our consciousness to-day all those majestic certainties, to which the whole structure of our Nature points, of the Being and Fatherhood of God, of the soul's immortality and endless progress, better afford to have to begin afresh as to all these ways and means, than to lose irrecoverably the one instinct that vitalizes and effectuates them all For out of this came what was good in book or deed. Out of this can it all be reproduced. Out of this arises the overmastering cry for God, for Progress, for immortal life, by which these are guaranteed; out of this proceed their ever-nobler meanings; out of this shall all they promise be fulfilled.
And because your movement is consecrated-first, midst, and last-to this, in the name of this appeals to the present, and to the might of this confides its future-therefore every enduring energy in man and nature unites with the humblest well-wisher to speed you on your way.
SAMUEL JOHNSON

From the Anti-Slavery Standard. 
CHILDREN'S CONVENTION AT LONG-WOOD,
Ninth Mo.3d., 1859.
UNCLE JOSEPH'S FIFTH ANNUAL LETTER TO THE CHILDREN
DEAR LITTLE GIRLS AND BOYS: The other day, I was in West Chester, and, before I was conscious of it, Eva and Jennie, two little pets of nine, had their arms around my neck, and the one that lisps said, "Oh, Uncle Joseph, when 'ith thee going to have the Children's Meeting?' The same day, William Ever-hart said we might have his grove. I don't mean that he offered to deed it to us, but just to let us take peaceable possession for one day. In an hour after, I met Prof. Culver, and he said, ' Friend Dugdale, the children are asking me when your meeting is to come off again? We shall turn out twice as many as we did last year!' Well, all this happening in one hour, just as a wind will sometimes blow down a peek of chest nuts, made my heart feel a little warmer than common; so I started home, and, the next morning, went, with some friends from Philadelphia, over to G. W. Pierce's grand old Park. The place seemed alive with birds. You know all the baby birds of last year are now full grown, just as many of the boys and girls who attended our first meeting are now setting up to be young men and women. To tell you the truth, I was thinking about our meeting for 1859, when my ears were arrested by such a torrent of warbling that, if it had been water, I am quite sure it would have sprinkled me all over. 
Such singing as we shall have when the jubilee comes, and the cry of no slave child shall be heard in our dear cherished land !Some people pretend to understand the language of beasts and birds, and they might have interpreted these as saying, 'Bring the little ones here again, here again, HERE AGAIN; oh, do, do, DO.' Now, just between ourselves, I thought the horses at the Yearly Meeting had, for want of oats, chewed the rails to badly that perhaps George would feel a little cool about our Convention; but I tell you, he never looked pleasanter when he was a boy. I hardly had told him what I wanted before he said, 'Yes-oh, yes, certainly" Then my mind was made up instanter, that whatever we may do hereafter about the kind offer of friend Everhart, we would hold our next Convention at Longwood, on Seventh day the 3d of Ninth month, 1859, commencing precisely at 10 o'clock, A. M. 
Rise early, in time to see the sun put out the stars. Don't forget our obligation, if we are young, to help the little ones who have no way of getting to the meeting. If all the horses were like ' old Major,' they ' would work freely, provided they had a good mess of oats and could see the fun. Sort out the baskets and kettles, select the biggest, then pile them full; for we, are to have a big time, and it would almost make me cry if one little barefooted urchin should go empty away. Look out for ' Aunt Dinah's' big basket. One of the teachers at Media told me, the other day, they would turn out strong. Lancaster County, and our little sister State of Delaware, have always been represented. There are two more acres to be added to Longwood, and the Park extends over ten acres. After the meeting is over, and we have had our memories jogged about The Little Pilgrim, Punctuality, Perseverance, Quarreling, Quids, and other P's and Q's, and some good songs about Temperance and Freedom, we will leave the horses at the meeting-house (for that is our bargain) and his off to the Park and spread our lunch under the boughs of the grand old Norways. The old folks will all feel young again! You remember how we magnetized the ministers last year, and made them talk like sensible boys. It strikes me we ought this year to invite the Editors. But I must hurry; we are packing up for a trip to New Jersey. Did you hear the little folks were going to have! a great Convention there to celebrate the first of August-Uncle Joseph to be one of the boys? Though a native-born Pennsylvanian forty years ago I picked huckleberries over there, played in the sand, swam in the streams and thrashed a boy for calling my little plain coat a name which legitimately belongs to one of the finest fish that swims in the Delaware. I wish you could all read the sweet little book called ' A Kiss for a Blow,' and practice forgiveness of injuries in your young life, as taught by the Son of God, who laid his hands on little children and blessed them. By so doing, you will avoid many of the bitter repentances and tears which have fallen to the portion of your 'Uncle' and friend,
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.

From the Boston Atlas and Daily Bee. 
A MOTHER SEEKS THE FREEDOM OF HER CHILDREN. 
Mrs. Melinda Noll, a colored woman, is in the city seeking the means to enable her to redeem her son from slavery. Mrs. Noll is a woman of unusual ability and intelligence, for one of her class, as is abundantly proved by what she has already accomplished. She was herself a slave, and worked out her own freedom at an expense of $600. Next she succeeded by her labor, and by the aid of benevolent persons, in purchasing the freedom of her youngest son, at an expense of $1200. Now she is laboring for the emancipation of her other son, and his master agrees to manumit him for $1000. A part of this sum Mrs. Noll has already obtained and paid over, and she asks the benevolent people of Boston to help her in this good work.
She has the best testimonials to her good character and the labor of love she has performed, from her former master, from Rev. Horace James and Hon. A. H. Bullock of Worcester. Mr. William D. Kelley of Philadelphia, and many other well-known and distinguished men. We trust that her appeal will be liberally responded to in this city. What a spectacle does this case present for the contemplation of Christian men and women? A mother laboring and asking alms to purchase the personal liberty of the children she has borne and nurtured! As if she had not done her part in giving them birth and rearing them, she must now travel half over the continent to buy for them what is their own natural, God-given right. But such is American slavery, and this is one of its illegitimate, inevitable fruits. 
It is enough to make an honest man ashamed of his country, and cause him to swear eternal hostility to the whole abominable system of bondage. Fathers and mothers of Boston and New England, just make the case of this poor woman your own for a moment -imagine yourself toiling for years, laying by dollar after dollar of your hard-earned wages to buy your own freedom, the right to your own body and labor and after that when life is more than half spent, think of devoting all your labor, and of making yourself a beggar, in the effort to purchase the same boon for the children of your love. Talk of the tender solicitude of a father for the welfare of his son, or the self-denying love of a mother for her daughter, what are these, as exhibited in your case, compared with the burden of anxiety which this poor slave woman carries, with the yearning affection
<c06>
which impels her to beg and labor for the deliverance of her captive sons. A hundred years hence children's children, will look back with astonishment and blush for their fathers, that such a thing should have been in this age of the world, as a Christian mother compelled to ask alms to buy her children out of the bondage of the oppressor.
Suppose the case were your own much patience do you suppose you would exercise toward the Rev. Dr. Adam, and the Boston post, when they attempted to console you by telling you that your children were better in slavery than if made free? yet this is what they say to this poor slave mother and it is their excuse for defending slavery, and voting to perpetuate and extend it. But such an excuse has no effect with a candid mind, nor can it command respect. Such a case considered simply in the light of the facts, without embellishment or the addition of any sentiments, is enough to sweep away all hunker sophistries, and leave American slavery in its naked and hideous deformity, a thing to be despised and hated.

AYER'S SARSAPARILLA
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alternative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCER, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC <ILLEGIBLE>, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION,ERYSIPELAS,ROSE OR ST.ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruption, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alternative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruption, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, presenting to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR.J.C.AYER & CO
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1per Bottle; Six Bottle for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $L00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER,STEVENS & CUSHINGBROWN & PRICE, Salem; Boston.
H.H.HAY, Portland;
J.N.MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where 6m may7.

LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass, and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland-most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere building. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire specially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom lands are offered who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School-a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its methods of instruction, designed to aid the attainment of thorough, symmetrical Education-will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home. 
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
 Prices reasonable, and terms of payments suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of
E.D.DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass
June 17, 1859-tf

J.B.YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS;
21 Cornhill BOSTON.
