THE LIBERATOR 
–IS PUBLISHED–
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS–Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square,$1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptioms for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON,Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 13. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1782
Selections.
<c01>
LACTURE ON THE AMERICAN WAR.
On Monday evening, March 4, a lecture on the origin and results of the American rebellion was delivered in the hall of the Mechanics’ Institution, in Stockport, (England,) by Mr. J. H. Estcourt, of Manchester. Mr. Councillor John Walthew occupied the chair, and introduced the lecturer. There were on the platform Mr. Alderman Chapman, Mr. Councillor Barber, Mr. Councillor Alderley, Mr. W. Forrester, Mr. Robinson, Mr. Hindle, &c. &c. 
Mr. ESTCOURT then proceeded to make an able and lucid speech, the concluding portion of which we give below:-
Observe some of the results of the rebellion. The Homestead Act has been passed, whereby free land can be obtained by free settlers in perpetuity; Kansas has been admitted a free State; slavery has been abolished in Columbia district, Western Virginia, Maryland, Missouri, Louisiana, Tennessee, Arkansas, and is in process in Kentucky and Delaware; Hayti and Liberia, two colored republics, have been recognized; the right of search in vessels trading from Africa has been guaranteed by treaty, a slave-trading Captain hung, and every man, of whatever color, declared a citizen, and competent to witness in courts of justice. (Applause.)
Now we come to the election of 1864. The question to be decided was–”Shall the Union live, or shall slavery reign?” and the people by millions declared that the Union should live, and that slavery should die. (Loud applause.) It was a sublime spectacle for the contemplation of a world, that of a great people, in the midst of an unprecedented civil war, engaging in a prolonged political conflict, in which every feeling of the human heart was appealed to, going to the ballot-box quietly and in the most orderly manner, endorsing the policy of the government, and electing their rulers for another term of years, selecting again that noble, honest, true-hearted man, Abraham Lincoln, and solving effectively the problem that free suffrage and republican instructions can be upheld even in the most critical time of a nation’s life, and proving that a strong government may rest upon the will of the people as well as on the divine right of kings. (Applause.) See, too, in how dignified a position it placed the President, and how well he sustained himself. No vaunting, no boasting in oratory. Said he, “I do not impugn the motives of any one who opposed me. It is no pleasure to me to triumph over any one. Gold is good in its place, but living, brave, patriotic men are better than gold. So long as I have been here, I have not willingly planted a thorn in any man’s bosom.” Noble, Christian, generous words these––worth remembering, worthy of example to us all. Then that declaration in the President’s Message, crowning all that had preceded it: “I will not return any man to bondage. If you, the people, require me to undo my emancipation decree, another, not I, must do it.” And so stands Abraham Lincoln upon the highest pinnacle of honor–the savior and emancipator of a race. (Loud applause.)
And now we come to the grand climax of legislation. On the 31st of January, 1865, at mid of night, the capitol at Washington was crowded with people of both sexes. The vote was to be taken on the amendment to the Constitution, by which slavery was to be abolished and prohibited forever within the dominions of the United States. As vote after vote was announced, now ‘mid hushed silence, and now with ringing cheers, it came to the crisis of the voting. How will the doubtful democrats vote? This suspense was soon put an end to, the doubtful ones became certain, and “yea” followed “yea” until the required majority was obtained; and “yea” followed “yea” until more were polled,” and then, with one burst of joy and exultation, the capitol was made to resound with the cheering of a vast multitude, roused with ecstacy and with vigor clothed; and the morning ushered in the great event of the rebellion, and the greatest in the history of America. (Applause.) A day to be honored all over the world, and to be remembered for all time. (Applause.)
“How will the Legislatures of the States vote?” was the next cry. Well, in eleven subsequent days, eleven States had ratified the amendment, and fore most stood Maryland, who, freed and in her right mind, said “Amen,” Then New York, Missouri, Massachusetts, Indiana, Illinois, (the Egypt of the West, had shaken off her black laws, and she, too,) said. “So be it.” Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Western Virginia, and Rhode Island said, “Yea, Amen!” and so on the great record will be completed when all the States necessary to legally ratify shall be obtained, and then the jubilee day will not be far distant, when on the soil of America no slave can “live, or move, or have a being.” (Loud applause.)
it does not require any further proof to show that if the rebellion had only resulted in this one fact, the sacrifice of life and treasure would be well made. But the more we look at the interior life and character of the American people, the more noble they become, the more wonderful they appear. Remember that they have had to sustain the greatest armies that ever were marshalled on the battle-field, without any preparation for such a purpose, their standing army and the navy scattered, the treasury emptied by those chivalrous and honorable Southerners who held office under Buchanan, the arms deposited in the arsenals of the South, so that when the blow came and Fort Sumter was fired upon, there was neither army, navy, arms, nor arsenal. The trumpet sound of that shot woke up the patriotism of the people, and in a few weeks an army of people, though not of soldiers, was on its march; unskilled but brave, undisciplined but true, ungeneralled but daring; and they fought, were defeated; their places supplied again; and thus, fighting and thundering, they learned the art of war, and the battle was carried to the enemy’s gate, and victory sat enthroned in the triumphant car moved by the military prowess of the freemen.
But, said some wise men, statesmen, or would be such in this country, “Let the rebels go; give the slave States their independence; do not carry out this war for empire, it is barbarous. Your country is too large for one government to rule; there ought to be at least four or five kingdoms on your soil;” and in such wise our great men talked and wrote. Of course, English people never boast; we are humble, quiet people, content with little. We do not sing about the sun never setting on the Queen’s dominions. When Ireland, united to us by constitutional articles of union, rebelled–and she has done it two or three times–did we let her go? Did we say, “The channel divides us –geographically you are entitled to a government of your own–you are another people, speaking a different language; we have no right to control you or coerce you.” Did we say that? Let the fact of Ireland being part of the kingdom now be the answer. (Applause.) When
<c02>
India, which we had gotten possession of by many questionable and devious means, and with force of arms at various times kept when she mutinied and rebelled, did we say, “Thousands of miles of sea separate us—your people are millions more than our population at home—yon have on your soil many nationalities of old—many different languages, different customs—you have nothing in common with us in social, political, or religious points of view—it is right for you to leave us and rebel, we will not prevent you? Did we say so? Let the treasure, the life, the horrors of that war to suppress the rebellion reply. And yet, when one people by language, origin, political institutions, common nationality and religion, with no geographical obstacle to unity of soil, but with positive geographical obligations to unity, with a government the most elastic in the world—when a portion of such a people, a small minority of them, rebel against the judgment and will of the majority, we, with pharisaical voice, cry out, “Let them go—you are too large—there is no homogeneousness of people—you cannot live together. Let slavery succeed, hinder it not. And then when Americans heeded not but said, “America for Americans, no division of territory or government, one united and free this nation must be, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Lake to the Gulf,” we condemned them as a boasting, arrogant people, although I believe they are very much like ourselves, if not a little more modest.
Well, it is decided that there is to be no division, that there is to be only one nation, and that nation is to be a free one, and it is not to be put into the volcano of bankruptcy, or the abyss of repudiation. To show the wonderful power of the people, it is only necessary to say that villages, schools, hospitals, chapels, clothing, nurses, teachers, missionaries, agents, books, implements of husbandry, and tools for industrial pursuits, have all been made, erected, and supplied by voluntaryism, and heroes and heroines in number sufficient to make a scroll for all the nations of Europe have been supplied by the patriots of the nation. (Applause.) No signs of bankruptcy, no signs of decay here. The republic has not been the bursting bubble prophesied, but it will live, and be the heritage of freemen to all time. (Applause.)
In conclusion, my address has been delivered to show that slavery was the origin of the rebellion—that philanthropy, preservation of the Union, and Emancipation are the result. Look at two or three of the most recent occurrences. Chief Justice Taney, who declared from the seat of judgment in the Supreme Court of the United States that a black man had no rights that a white man need respect, has gone to his rest, and in his place has been raised one of the “noblest Romans of them all,” Salmon P. Chase, and the other day into that Court was introduced a black man by the Honorable Charles Sumner, honorable for goodness, talent, eloquence, and manly virtue, and that black man was announced as a professional pleader before that high court, and with gracefulness welcomed by the Chief Justice thereof, amid the plaudits of the elite of Washington. (Applause.) The Rev. H. Garnett, a colored man, has preached by invitation in the House of Representatives at Washington, and was received with all the honors a great people can bestow. Lastly, around the steps of the Capitol of Nashville, Tennessee, was gathered a vast concourse of people, black and white. The new Vice President, Andrew Johnson, another native of a slave State, and one who has been derided as a tailor by those who, by the way, will not make a ninth part of him, whatever he may be proportionate to other men, Andrew Johnson, standing on those steps, declared, with the history of the past to witness, the present condition to guide, and the future to encourage him, freedom full, broad, and unconditional to every man in Tennessee, and that rebellion and slavery should, by God’s help, no longer pollute the State and the people, with one mighty shout, in that solemn scene, said, “Thank God! Amen!” (Applause.) The times are miraculous; a nation born again, a people morally educated, a continent kindled into enthusiasm, and freedom, the long-sought, much desired, and yearned for boon, obtained in the short space of four years; the poison tree of the slave power’s planting dug out by the root in six of what were formerly slave States, and the tree of liberty planted therein, the leaves whereof are for the healing of the nation. Hail, joyful day, when the morning shall rise upon the North American continent with no slave upon its soil, no stain upon the flag, but when the stars and stripes shall wave over all the land, a land wherein shall dwell righteousness and peace, and where prosperity and happiness shall bless all people within her borders! (Loud applause.)
At the conclusion of the lecture, the usual votes of thanks were given, the proceedings terminating with “three times three” cheers for Abraham Lincoln.
FRESH PROOF OF REBEL BARBARITY.
WILMINGTON, N. C., March 2, 1865.
Capt. Samuel C. Timpson, Co. A, of the 95th New York, belonging to the Second Brigade, First Division, First Corps, Gen. Wardsworth’s command, who was captured at the battle of the Wilderness, night of May 5, 1864, while in the skirmish line, furnishes the following interesting particulars:
“I found myself among a party of 108 officers and 1,500 men; my own command constituted 70 men and 6 officers of the party. We brought up at Lee’s headquarters. We were put into a vacant corral, and guarded by dismounted cavalry. The place was filled with horse and cow ordure, and the guard during the night left their posts, and stealing in among the prisoners, robbed them of watches, money, haversacks, hats, caps, and other articles. This was in sight of Gen. Lee’s headquarters.
Ten thousand and eight entitled men died at Andersonville, Ga., during June and July, 1864, according to their own official reports—to say nothing of those who were shot with and without any pretext by the guards.
Sept. 13, the prisoners were sent from Savannah to Charleston with great haste. They were kept thirteen hours in these cattle cars. An order was issued to allow no one to leave the cars upon any pretext whatever. Those afflicted with diarrhea and other complaints suffered dreadfully. They were imprisoned among murderers, thieves, deserters from the Union army, blockade-runners, and vagabonds of every description. There were 21 negro soldiers, most of them belonging to Col. Shaw’s 54th Massachusetts regiment, of immortal memory, among the number. They were never to be exchanged; but were to be reduced to slavery. These were all that were left of the colored troops captured at Wagner. The rest were bayoneted and shot after they surrendered. Their rations were bread and water; still they would sing Union songs, pouring their melody through their prison bars, for the entertainment of the Union officers in the prison and below.
There was no shelter. The officers lay on the ground amid filth, garbage, and urine. My informant found a small platform to repose on. On waking in the morning, he found he had been sleeping
<c03>
under the gallows. Shells from the fleet exploded all night over and beyond the jail. When the fires broke out in the city, our batteries would open and drive the firemen away. The guards would turn out, and drive the firemen back to their engines. But the whole block was destroyed. On the night of Sept. 16, our shells kept us awake all night. They burst every minute around us. The batteries were served, apparently, so as not to hit the jail, and only two were injured, and they only slightly.
No cooking utensils were provided, no wood to cook with: only corn meal, raw. Elbridge, of the Twelfth New York Cavalry, died during the night. A Rebel Surgeon who examined him pronounced the cause of death to be “pure starvation and exposure.” The body was left unburied all day. A lot of poor, lean beef was brought in, and thrown down by the side of the dead man’s body. The officer says: “Although I was hungry enough to have eaten the meat raw, I lost all appetite at the revolting spectacle.”
By the 17th of September, the yard was so filled with accumulated filth and garbage, no resting place could be found. There was no shade, and night was welcomed as a relief from the fervor of the sun’s rays. The Surgeon had no medicine, excepting salts. The yard on the 20th was submerged by a two days’ rain, which, with the accumulated filth, rendered the place intolerable. A remonstrance was sent to Col. Jones, the commander of the department. No reply came for three days. A second remonstrance brought answer that it was the best they could do.
The yellow fever broke out in the city, and three Rebel captains of the prison died, beside a number of the guards. The Rebel guards became alarmed, and for fear of infection—not from any apparent wish to accommodate us—they moved some of the officers to a house in Broad St., some to the Marine Hospital, and others to the local hospitals.
Dr. George R. C. Todd was the surgeon in charge of the hospital for Union prisoners at Rikerville, near Charleston, during the month of September. The officers say he is an unmitigated scoundrel and a finished brute. He thrust all classes of prisoners in the same ward, making no distinction between officers, enlisted men, and deserters from either army. He threatened to buck and gag officers who were sick. His inhumanity caused him, it is thought, to be removed by Gen. Hardee.
The officers were taken to Columbia, and herded like cattle in an open lot, where they remained until Dec. 13, lying in mud and water, day in and day out, without any shelter whatever. Four officers were deliberately shot by the guards, and five others lost their lives in trying to escape. Prisoners at Andersonville, where 30,000 were confined at one time, died at the rate of 150 to 250 per day. Over 12,000, probably 16,000, perished from starvation and exposure. Probably from 400 to 500 escaped from Columbia by bribing the guards. Of this number half were brought back, and would have been punished if their refined cruely had suggested any resource. One officer who escaped from the train between Macon and Charleston was torn to pieces by bloodhounds. Lieut. Parker of a Vermont regiment jumped from the train on the way between Charleston and Columbia. He was set upon by 13 young bloodhounds in an open field. He was so lacerated by the dogs that he died in the hospital at Columbia. Those who started from Columbia took the route toward the mountains of the Blue Ridge.
The negroes would always assist the fugitives; give them food, and pilot them to the best routes. They said that their masters generally offered them $25 reward to betray a Yankee. In spite of this tempting reward, they acted the part of the Good Samaritan in all cases. “They are,” say the officers, “as true as steel in all cases.” Capt. Timpson says, “while waiting at the banks of the Saluda River, pursued by a pack of hounds, the chivalry mounted on horseback, to the number of fifteen or twenty, armed with shot-guns, pursuing them, the slaves on the opposite shore bearing the baying of the hounds, one of them pushed into a boat, and rowed rapidly across. He knew from the sound of the dogs that they were in pursuit of some Yankee fugitives. The barking of the hounds grew louder and nearer, and the officers feared they would be overtaken and devoured before the boat could reach the shore. The faithful negro pulled for dear life, took the officers into this boat, and bore them in safety beyond the reach of the men-hunters and their natural allies the bloodhounds, at the risk of his own life. He piloted the officers around the pickets, who were lying in wait for them, by which means they escaped. The slaves said: “Our masters curse you all de day, but we pray for you ebery night.”
They, the slaves, are rejoiced at the prospect of being forced into the Rebel army. They declare they will shoot behind, and not before.
Capt. Timpson states that after he was captured by the: guerrillas and half breeds in the mountains, they turned his and his comrades’ pockets inside out. Afterward they stripped off their vests and coats, and began quarreling about the distribution. They seemed to think they had money, and would not give it up. Their death was a foregone conclusion. Meantime a Capt. Singleton came up; he was a freemason, so was Capt. Hayes. The party was saved. They were marched back to Greenville C. H., and put in a dungeon with the negroes who were confined for murder. The inhabitants, mostly the women, came to see them. One travelled 17 miles to see the live Yankees. From a very cautious approach, she finally discovered that the Yankees were not wild animals, and at last became sociable, and thought it a shame to treat people so; she afterward brought bread for them to eat.
The party went back to Columbia. The train ran off the track. Four were killed and 17 wounded. They (the Rebel guard) were badly mutilated, having legs and arms broken and smashed. The only two Yankee prisoners escaped. Six weeks terminated their imprisonment. They are now on their way, rejoicing, to their friends at home.
Among the officers just arrived here is Lieut. A. A. Abbott of New York, who has made a daily record of the events of prison life in the Confederacy. He will soon issue a book to be entitled “Letters from Prison,” with pictorial illustrations of places and scenes through which he and his associate officers have passed. The book will possess thrilling interest. E. S.
STORY OF A SOUTHERN UNION MAN.
We had a visit yesterday, from Mr. J. P. Hurley, who has just arrived here from the rebel prison at Salisbury, N. C. Mr. Hurley is a native of Newton, but resided many years at Newburyport. In 1849 he went to Bedford, in the southwest part of Virginia, engaging in mining operations, and there he resided when the war broke out. Though an active Democrat, he was true to his love of the Union, and at an early period of the rebellion he was arrested by the rebel authorities, and thrown into the county jail. There he remained some time, but was finally released. In December, 1863, he was engaged in
<c04>
forming a military organization to aid the Union cause, when he was again arrested, with many of his neighbors, and this time was sent to Salisbury, N. C., where he remained till within a few days. When an exchange of prisoners was agreed upon, he claimed to be a Northern man, and was allowed to come out of the prison, that his case might be investigated, and once out he was able to keep along with the soldiers, and thus escaped.
He confirms all that has been said, and the worst that has been said, of the brutal manner in which the prisoners at Salisbury hare been treated. Prisoners who spent last summer in the slaughter-pen at Andersonville, and were in the winter taken to Salisbury to keep out of the way of Sherman, declared the Andersonville bell not to be so bad as the Salisbury hell. In October the number of prisoners at Salisbury was about two hundred, but the number was then increased by arrivals from Richmond, and from prisons further south, to ten thousand. The ill treatment commenced with their arrival, and by death from exposure and starvation, and by a few escaping, their number was reduced in February to forty-five hundred. As many as seventy died in one day, and the average rate of mortality from October was twenty-five each day. The stated rations were very poor and very small, and half the time these were cut down to one-half or one-fourth. Some days they were withheld altogether.
As the result of this, the men became enfeebled and discouraged, and soon they sickened and died. The rebel officers told them the rate at which they were dying, and taunted them with the remark that all who did not enlist in the rebel service would be dead within a few months. Fifteen hundred men did enlist in the rebel service, in the hope of saving their lives. Some of those subsequently escaped to the Federal lines, some were caught attempting to escape, and were sent back to the prison, while still others remain in the army.
A Catholic priest was sent to the prison, who found 800 inmates of that persuasion, who were taken from the main prison to a place where they were better treated. After arrangements for the exchange had all been completed, the rebels told them that they would be taken back to the main prison, where they would die like sheep, if they would not enlist; but to their credit be it said, though they knew nothing of the arrangements, every man of them remained true to the Union.
Men who were in need of medicine, in going to visit a surgeon, passed through a hospital where they were obliged to step over dead and dying men lying on the ground. As men died in the hospitals, they were placed in a row, in just the condition and position in which they breathed their last, and sometimes, when the number was larger than usual, one layer of dead bodies was placed on top of another. In the morning they were thrown into the dead-cart in the most unfeeling manner, and borne away to a place of burial, where a ditch had been provided for them. As the cart moved over the rough ground, the bodies were jostled about in a manner not pleasant to contemplate by those who had reason to believe that their own turn would come next.
THE ORIGINAL PLATFORM.
Twenty-five years of argument had only brought the people to the point of slavery restriction, or non-extension. Such was the platform on which Mr. Lincoln began his first term of office. The rebellion was to be subdued, but slavery left intact, and dominant in the nation. It was to be left to blight fifteen States by its immediate presence, and thence to cast its dark shadow over all the rest, and choose its own time to hatch out another rebellion. It was a grand stride of the people from their stupid pro-slavery ism up to the point of slavery restriction. From Buchanan up to Lincoln the first, was a long march. But it was a longer one from Lincoln the first and slavery restriction, up to Lincoln the second and slavery extirpation. Be it ever remembered, that Mr. Lincoln was called to his second term of office in the name and behalf of radical abolition. The people placed him on a platform declaring boldly, and with no doubtful meaning, that “Justice and the public safety demand the complete and total extirpation of slavery from the soil of the Republic.”
“Radical abolitionist,” four years ago, was a phrase applied with a reproachful sneer to a class of men so few in numbers as to be deemed worthy only of sneers and jibes. Radical abolition was the raving of heated brains, fanatics. Who dared predict the miracle which four years of war would bring? “Radical abolition,” too tame for a platform now, and only those terrible words, “total extirpation,” could express the people’s determination, and programme for the new term of office to which they were about to call Mr. Lincoln.
Consonant with the programme of extirpation, which he had accepted, Mr. Lincoln at once recommends incorporating slavery extirpation in the fundamental law of the land, and both Houses of Congress adopt the proposition, and the States take up the strain, and send it on. Anticipating this grand movement, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee, West Virginia, and Maryland, abolish slavery by their own action. Congress has abolished and prohibited it in the District of Columbia, and in all the territories, wiped out the internal slave trade and all fugitive slave laws, while, under the emancipation proclamation, slavery goes down wherever, in the victorious march of Sherman, Sheridan, Schofield, and Thomas, the Stars and Stripes go up. Those Stars and Stripes now mean freedom. Glorious flag! at last redeemed! no more to float over slave-ships and coffle gangs—now I hail thee; now struggling millions hail thee! Thy shadow hereafter shall be like the shadow of a great rock. At length thy folds shall float over the land of the free and the home of the brave.
But God designs a complete regeneration of the nation. It was not enough that the Executive should proclaim freedom to slaves of rebels, and the legislature freedom to all slaves. While Taney presided over the judiciary, freedom was insecure. The Dred Scott dictum must be buried forever out of sight, and the Supreme Court regenerated. So God took Taney from the bench, and Lincoln, inspired by God, put Salmon P. Chase in his stead. Another such stride upward no nation has ever made, as when Chase succeeded Taney in the Supreme Justiceship of the United States. From Taney to Chase is further than from Egypt to Canaan. In contrast to Taney’s most infamous exposition of the Constitution, making it strike down every single right of a whole race, numbering twelve millions, in and close around the American Republic, stands the noble exposition of that same Constitution by Mr. Chase, made is 1848, and incorporated into the Buffalo platform of the free soil party. Be said, “Under our government, we can no more make a slave than a king.” This glorious truth is henceforth to inspire American jurisprudence; and until we make kings in this country, we shall make no more slaves. Hallelujah!
<c05>
Scarcely had the funeral obsequies of the slave-holding Judge been attended, before his slaveholding dictum followed him to ignominy. One day, not long ago, the tall, manly form of Charles Sumner (God bless him!) might have been seen entering the Supreme Court room. By his side was a Massachusetts lawyer, well proportioned, good looking, intelligent. Mr. Sumner moved that his friend, a member of the bar before the Supreme Court of Mamachosette, be admitted to plead at the bar of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was admitted, the peer of the country’s greatest lawyers, where Webster, Choate, Reverdy Johnson, and Seward, had achieved their legal fame. The lawyer was admitted without objection, and that lawyer was a negro, without mixture of Saxon blood. If any have tears to shed over the dictum of Taney, which spurred Dred Scott from the Court as a suppliant for justice, because he was a negro, let them shed them now, for that dictum is dead.
On the 12th of last month, the Rev. Henry Highland Garnett, one of the most eloquent divines in America, preached in the National Hall of Representatives at Washington, D. C, by invitation of the Chaplain of the house. The Rev. Dr. Garnett is a negro, and very black. It is the first instance of the kind in the history of the country.
The world does move; and may God speed its flight from the dark regions of prejudice to the warmer and sunnier climes of equity and brotherhood! D. E. M. —Sabbath Recorder.
RAISING OF THE FLAG ON FORT SUMTER—A GREAT ANNIVERSARY.
On Saturday, the 13th of April, 1861, the little garrison of Fort Sumter, under command of Major Robert Anderson, U. S. A., surrendered to the rebels under Beauregard, and on Sunday morning, the 14th of the same month, the fort was formally evacuated. The following is the official report of the event, made by Major Anderson to the War Department:
STEAMSHIP BALTIC, off Sandy Hook,
April 18, 1861—10 30, A. M., via New York.
Having defended Fort Sumter for thirty-four hours, until the quarters were entirely burnt, the main gates destroyed by fire, the gorge walls seriously injured, the magazine surrounded by flames, and its door closed from the effects of heat; <illegible> barrels and three cartridges of powder only being available, and no provisions remaining but pork, I accepted, terms of evacuation offered by General Beauregard—being the same offered by him on the 11th instant, prior to the commencement of hostilities—and marched out of the fort on Sunday afternoon, the 14th instant, with colors flying and drums beating, bringing away company and private property, and saluting my flag with fifty guns.
ROBERT ANDERSON,
Major First Artillery Commanding.
Hon. SIMON CAMERON,
Secretary of War, Washington.
The following is a list of the officers of the garrison:
Names. Rank. Reg’t or Corps. Original entry into service. Whereborn.
R. Anderson, Major. 1st Art. July 1, ’25. Ken’y.
S. W. Crawford, A’st Surg. M. Staff. March 10, ‘51. Penn.
A. Doubleday, Captain. 1st Art. July 1, ’43. N. Y.
T. Seymour, Captain. 1st Art. July 1, ’46. Vt.
Theo. Talbot, 1st Lieut., 1st Art. May 22, ’47. D. C.
Jeff, C. Davis, 1st Lieut., 1st Art. June 17, ’48. Ind.
J. N. Hall, 2d Lieut. 1st Art. July 1, ’59. N. Y.
J. G. Foster, Captain. Eng’rs. July 1, ’46. N. H.
G. W. Snyder, 1st Lieut., Eng’rs. July 1, ’56. N. Y.
R. K. Meade, 2d Lieut. Eng’rs. July 1, ’57. Va.
Officers, 10; Band, 15; Artillerists, 55. Total, 80.
Major Anderson is now Major General Anderson; Surgeon Crawford is Major General Crawford, in command of one of the corps under General Grant; Captain A. Doubleday is General Doubleday, president of the court martial now sitting in Philadelphia; Captain T. Seymour is now General Seymour: First Lieutenant Jeff. C. Davis is now General Jeff. C. Davis; Captain J. G. Foster is new Major General Foster; Second Lieutenant J. N. Hall is now first lieutenant. We believe all’ these officers are living.
The details of this the first conflict of the war, began by the rebels with a force of at least seven thousand against a garrison of only eighty men, are familiar to American readers. The endurance and courage of these officers and soldiers can never be forgotten. And it is to commend their services, and to mark the restoration of the port of Charleston, its harbor, and its forts to the complete control of the Government, that the President has directed Major General Robert Anderson to raise the stars and stripes on the battlements of Fort Sumter on the 13th of April, 1865, the anniversary of the day he consented to evacuate it, after a protracted and gallant resistance, when his ammunition and provisions were exhausted. There is a classic propriety in this celebration. Where the first shot was fired at the Republic—where the most pestilent traitors were gathered to witness the deed of shame—almost in sight of the grave of John C. Calhoun—it is meet that the cannon should roar, the drums beat, the trumpets clang, and the army and navy shout from land and water, as our conquering flag is replaced on Sumter, never again to be removed by the hand of man. Well may the thousands who will enjoy this sublime spectacle on the 13th of April, 1865, repeat the glowing words of Drake:
“Forever float that standard sheet—
Where breathes the foe but falls before us;
With freedom’s soil beneath our feet,
And freedom’s banner waving o’er us.”
—Philadelphia Press.
OUR PLATFORM.
The defence of the weak against the mighty, of the oppressed against the oppressor, is a noble and holy cause. It is a cause that, in spite of all impediments, obstacles and intrigues of our enemies, we are proud of contending for. We ask justice—full justice—for all.
For colored soldiers, who partake of the perils of our armies on the battle-field, we want equal treatment with the white soldiers. We claim for them fair chance for promotion, fair board of examination, and admission of colored officers to all positions and ranks, according to their merit and valor.
For colored laborers we want entire freedom, and self-disposal of themselves. We want that they be as free as white men in contracting for their labor, going from place to place, and enjoying the earnings of their toils.
For colored ministers we claim the same respect that is accorded to white clergymen; we want for them the same regard that their white brethren enjoy. We will not relax in our endeavors until we see them sitting in conferences, side by side with the white ministers of the Gospel, and preaching from the same pulpits. Union of Churches and equality in God it our motto.
<c06>
For colored children, we want that they shall be received in the common schools, as it is done in Massachusetts. We want to see our children seated on the same benches with the white girls and boys, to that every prejudice of color may disappear from childhood, and the next generation be aroused to a sentiment of fraternity.
For colored women we claim the same regard as for the white ones. They are, as well as the women of any other race, mothers, sisters, wives and daughters; they partake of the same feelings; and we do not want to see them rebuked by men in offices, and treated not as women but as brutes.
For colored men in general,. we claim the right of suffrage, and thereby the right of self-taxation and self-government, which is conferred upon the whites. We claim that privilege on the broad ground that they are men, and they are American citizens.
These are the principles we have at any time advocated and defended. We do not care for the obstacles we may find in our way, or the enemies we may arraign against us. The men who oppose such a platform can only be the enemies of our race. Do not say that we are going too far. We ask any candid man: Is freedom complete? Is the black man in the full enjoyment of all he has a right to obtain? If not, why should we stop in our efforts to have justice done to our race? —New Orleans Tribune.
SPEECH OF HOWELL COBB,
DELIVERED AT MACON, GA. FEBRAUARY 16, 1865.
[From the Richmond Sentinel, March l6.]
On all hands we hear that the courage and unanimity of the people of Georgia never shone more brightly than they do this day. They have risen up more brave and defiant than ever in the track of the detestable foe that has lately trod their soil. The following extract from a speech delivered by General Howell Cobb, at Macon, on the 16th of February, will illustrate our statement. We copy from the Augusta Constitutionalist:
On this we stand together to-night, and it fills me with new hopes. There is no longer any grounds for differences of opinion among men who are true. From this time forth, mark the men who begin to talk about peace—who say the war ought to close —are despondent, encourage disaffections and ill feelings towards our efforts to prosecute the war, and whose words and conduct show that they are in favor of reconstruction, though they do not talk it openly. Keep your eyes on the man who talks this way. I will write his history to-night: He will be gloomy; say our armies will be defeated and destroyed, and that there is no hope for us. The next thing you know of him, he will be buying gold— (laughter and applause); next he will send his son to Europe—(great laughter); and perhaps close up the scene by going there himself. (Great laughter and applause.) I was going to wish those young men now in Europe were back here; but I don’t wish it. I hope they will remain there during the war, in justice to themselves, and that they will stay there after the war is over, in justice to us. But what of the prospects before us? I do not wish to draw a picture to deceive you. I look upon the prospect as bright and promising. As God is my judge, I have yet to see the first despondent hour. (Applause.) Friends, bear with my earnestness, for when I am touching this point, I feel that I am attacking the Gibraltar of our enemy—our real foe in his strongest hold. I do not fear Lincoln, nor Seward, nor all their hordes. They will be scattered and defeated. The enemy which I fear is here, enthroned in your hearts and deeply seated in your affections. Let us tear down that idol, and bring true and honest hearts to the support of our cause. It is better to be free than to be rich. It is better to be beggars and free than to be enslaved, and have millions of the miserable perishing stuff which we call property. But what more can I say? One thing more I will ask. Let us have no more dissensions, quarrelings, and wranglings among ourselves. Differ we will, as we have in the past. There will be no time when we can all agree upon all points. If you ask me if I support the Confederate Administration, I answer I do, with all my heart. If you ask me if I sustain all that the President does and all his views, I answer no. If I had my way, I would do some things he does not, and leave undone some things which he does. “Then why don’t you oppose him?” says one. Simply because it may do no good, and it may do much harm and my policy in the end might not be as good as his. While we give our advice to Congress and our generals let us make up our minds that we will fight the battles of liberty within the policy that may be adopted, whether it suits or not. How long would this contest of freedom go on, if every man in the army should leave it as soon as something was done that he did not like? How many men would now be in Lee’s army if all that ever went there had acted on that principle? Let us give our public men credit for being patriotic, honest and sincere, deeply interested for our welfare and independence, and give them a hearty support. If I could select your generals, and could find out the man the soldiers wanted, they should have him. (Cries of “Johnston,” “Johnston,” “Johnston,” and hearty cheers rose from the many soldiers through the hall.) You do not respect more than I do this able commander. (Loud cheering.) There is no man that I respect more, and there is no general that I would rather go to the field of battle under than Old Joe Johnston, (prolonged shouts of applause.) and if I had my way, I would appoint him to a command. I talk to you plainly, and I talk to the Government in the same way. I want utility. There has been some talk of a State Convention. What do you want with it? What do we want? We want an army. We want men to go back to the service who are absent without leave. Will a State Convention put men in the ranks? We want clothes put on the backs of our men, shoes on their feet, arms and ammunition in their hands, and courage and a heroic determination to be free infused into their whole being. Will a Convention do this? We want provisions–meat, wheat, corn, etc., to feed our men. Will a State Convention furnish these? Tell me of a single thing good that it can or will do, and I am content. Do you want a Convention for peace? Lincoln has told you that you shall have no peace, save upon submission–craven, cowardly submission. Do you want it for negotiation? Lincoln will not negotiate. What Georgia wants is a united people. If there is, in all the country, a man who yet has a lingering feeling to go back into the Union, he may advocate a convention. He wants the sovereignty of Georgia to speak. Some persons think I am more interested in our success than the people generally. This is a great mistake. The tree upon which Lincoln will hang me when he catches me will not wither and die till he hangs you upon it also. Lincoln hates me, and I know it; and if you think he loves you, you are greatly mistaken. Go among the people where Yankee conquest has prevailed. Do you ask me to reconstruct with them? I went to the graveyard, and stood there among the
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
     “I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES…From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.…. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”–J. Q. ADAMS.

 
 
 <C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
 city of the dead. There were hundreds, perhaps thousands, of our gallant soldiers sleeping quietly their last sleep, who had given their lives a holy sacrifice for our holy cause. And I thought of reconstruction! and it seemed as though a voice rose from the graves of the gallant dead, saying,, “Never! Touch it not!” And I called upon God to witness that I had sworn I never would; and so help me God, I never will (Enthusiastic and prolonged cheering.) Life is but a span. Property is but a fleeting show. Put me in the grave, but never put on me the garment of a submissionist! (Cheers.)
 AN ADDRESS BY HON. WM. D. KELLEY.
 An enormous gathering assembled last night at Concert Hall. The occasion was that of an address by Hon. Wm. D. Kelley to the “Social, Civil and Statistical Society” of Philadelphia. This society, composed of the cultivated and more intelligent portion of the colored people of Philadelphia, has inaugurated a series of meetings, which have been addressed thus far by learned and eloquent men, irrespective of color. This course of lectures has been attended by immense audiences. Frederick Douglass and other Americans of African descent have addressed the association. Last night, Hon. Wm. D. Kelley, following the example of other gentlemen, did so, terminating the course.
 As we have said, the house was packed, though the whites predominated in numbers over the colored people. The band from Camp Wm. Penn gave the music. Their fine brass band of thirty musicians performed with such acceptability that at times the entire audience applauded them. Upon the platform were benevolent Christian gentlemen of both colors, with not a few clergymen, fair and dusky, mingling together as followers of the same Lord, irrespective of complexion, or color of cuticle. Prominent among them was Rev. Stephen Smith, man of color, who, for thirty years, has been a preacher of the Methodist faith, and who, without reproach, has amassed a very handsome fortune.
 Miss Greenfield, known as the Black Swan, sang, accompanying herself upon the piano by way of preliminary. Mr. Robert Purvis then made the announcement that Judge Kelley would speak, in these words:
 Ladies and Gentlemen—I am instructed to announce to you that the lecture of this evening will conclude the course of lectures before the Civil, Social and Statistical Association of this city. Not being a member of that association, I feel free to say—what I am sure is but the feeling of all those who have attended these lectures—that we are greatly indebted to the Committee of Arrangements (of whom Mr. Wm., Still is Chairman,) for their excellent and judicious appointments throughout the course.
 The formality, ladies and gentlemen, of introducing to you one so well known and honored as the distinguished orator of this evening might well be dispensed with. Judge Kelley’s consistent and unswerving fidelity to democratic republican principles has always secured for him the confidence and admiration of every true lover of freedom. But I desire in an especial manner, representing and speaking for the colored people, to tender to you, Judge Kelley, my profound acknowledgments. Your late able and exhaustive argument in the national House of Representatives on the vital issue of reconstruction, wherein the claims of the colored people to the enjoyment of equal rights were so ably set forth and defended, is alike worthy the head of a statesman and the heart of a philanthropist. And may I be allowed, ladies and gentlemen, the expression of the opinion that this country will have neither Union nor peace—I repeat it, neither Union nor peace—until to all men, irrespective of their color, there shall be a full and practical recognition of equal civil and political rights. And at this consummation, as the French poet, Lamartine, beautifully said that the immortal Wilberforce appeared before the throne of God, bearing in his hands the broken fetters of eight hundred thousand emancipated bondmen, so shall the prayers of four millions of disenthralled American bondsmen in our land call down from Heaven blessings upon the heads of the noble men and women who have been faithful to the great principles of human freedom.
 Judge Kelley then appeared amid extravagant bursts of applause. He regretted that, being prostrated with the labors of an exhausting session, he was so little competent to speak to-night. It was to the President of this association, Mr. William Still, that he was indebted for his subject—” The War, and the Rights of Humanity.” And of what else could be speak? England begins to understand that a State in America is greater than an English shire; and England is beginning to understand that America has difficulties to settle with her. The speaker, however, would not descant upon this, nor upon the atrocities committed upon Union prisoners; nor upon the magnanimity of the Africa-American people of the south, who have ministered, though surreptitiously, to their pressing necessities. (Applause.)
 A fact is intensely stubborn. He who says that slavery is the cause of the war is but partially right. Slavery is but one of the bitter fruits from the root from which sprung this war. If we fail to eradicate it we may have peace, but that peace will be agitation, and its fruit will yet mature to bloody and unending war. This war is but the penalty we are paying for violating a fundamental law of God—for violating a law of God that we all professed to believe—the law of human equality—(applause)— the law of the inherent nature and the indestructibility of man’s rights.
 Our institutions need no standing army for their maintenance. They are founded upon rectitude and justice. Who ever thought of revolutionizing Massachusetts? Every man there who can read the Constitution of the United States and of Massachusetts is a voter. If he cannot read it, he may qualify himself to do it. He may be a juror as well as a voter; and there is no trouble or revolution there. A man may be better off on the rocks of Massachusetts than in any other place in the world. Man, woman and child there earn more wages than in any other place upon God’s footstool. Yet in Massachusetts there is no distinction of persons on account of color.
 We have tried to say that our Declaration of Independence does not refer to all men. We exclude four millions from its benefits. We have denied to them the fact of their own existence, save as we could make them useful to ourselves; and we have tried in it to deceive the all-seeing God; and on bended knee, before our Maker, we have prayed that our trespasses be forgiven as we forgive those of others, and quietly added, “except the d—d niggers,” and our Hibernian friends emphatically add, “except the d—––d naygurs.” (Applause.) He is a God of justice, and His justice shall not be forever mocked, and He means that on bended knee they shall cease to lie to Him.
 Says some good citizen, do you mean to admit negroes to citizenship all over the country? That is just what I mean. (Applause.) They who first came here from England came for liberty. For it they left the graves of their ancestors. For it they encountered savage beasts, and still more savage men. And on the soil of New England, as on that of Pennsylvania, sprang up a people in whom the love of liberty was ingrained. They sought to build up a State in which the love of liberty should be prevalent; that courts of law would not be required, and from that came the arbitrations so troublesome at the present day. The sons of New England have carried the germ of that liberty across the continent. God preserve this country from rule of monarch, lord, or baron! (Applause.) We are but ten days from the kingdoms of Europe; but a few days more from the sluggish myriads of Asia. We are situated to command the trade of the world, and here we should found and perpetuate a pure democracy, with powers subject only to the revision of the people.
 To do this we must accept the negro. Our fathers did it, and they were blessed. (Applause.) The records of all the States show that down to 1812, outside of South Carolina, the free negro was a citizen and a voter; and the degeneracy of the sons of our revolutionary sires alone changed it. and brought about the system now in vogue among us. Our country up to this time was blessed without being superstitious. The speaker could but recur to the time when South Carolina, by inserting the word” “white” in a territorial bill, made Missouri a slave State. Ever since then, our lands have ceased to be of steady value, our commerce and manufactures have been so fluctusting that we have been, at times, obliged to import operatives from Europe. Our interests have been as unstable as the seas. Out of every hundred merchants, eighty have failed. Of course we have prospered and grown, but slavery has been a fearful injury. All history
<c02>
fails to show the fortunes of a people so unstable as those of the American people from 1820 to 1860.
 The speaker continued to trace the successive eras in the political history of the country. In 1787 and’88 the question of continuing the African slave trade was agitated. Georgia and South Carolina demanded its continuance. The north did not, but so long as they secured peace, they did not care. They suited the whites, and they “threw the nigger in.” No one can be offended at this phrase. It is but the national slang. (Applause.) The slaves brought into the country during twenty years, enabled them to obtain an ascendency that began to provoke this war. Eloquent men in Virginia proclaimed that slavery was weakness rather than strength, that it was crime. James Madison used the term “persons held to service,” instead of slave, as conscious of the crime being committed against God and man.
 The speaker showed how into each new territory slaves were harried as they more recently were into Kansas, and the descendants of Revolutionary sires, forgetting all that their fathers had achieved, inserted the word “white” in a territorial bill. And in 1863, Roger B. Taney, whose name is now infamous, (here a burst of applause lasted for some minutes,) declared that the negro had no rights that the white man was bound to respect. We owed the continued enslavement of Missouri, Maryland and Tennessee to the manufacturers of Connecticut, who preferred peace and traffic to truth and justice. The voice of Connecticut was thought to be the voice of New England, and the contest was given up. Northern men were to blame for all this.
 We sold ourselves to the devil, and what have we done with the money? (Applause.) The men of the South now ask us to oppose them no longer, but to let them fight for their freedom and human status. Look at Louisiana. Each ticket was for a free State government. That which provided equal rights to all was defeated. So was that ticket in Arkansas. And the true men in both States wrote to Congress, asking it, for God’s sake, to keep out the men elected to represent those States. (Loud applause.) Believing in voting early and voting often, the opponents of liberty took excursions on election, day, voting everywhere in their way from sunrise to sunset. Faithful Ben Butler (applause) had been disposed of, and the rebel emissaries plied their calling at the election.
 It would be very pleasant to give pardoned traitors the government of Louisiana. These people propose to put away a hundred thousand people who are their brothers, uncles, aunties, &c. They propose to make up a nice party by themselves, and have everything serene, as the boys say. The so- called Senate and Legislature of Louisiana contain over thirty men who are policemen in Louisiana. There cannot be a more corrupt government—the Fourth ward of Philadelphia is nothing to it—than the free State government of Louisiana. Let the government not be recognized until it recognizes every man as entitled to citizenship, and its members themselves will be so fond of the African citizen as to swear that they even have a tinge of African blood in their own veins. Yet, out of 48 parishes, there are but nine in the State in which the United States government can permit supplies to be sent without a special permit. The people have nothing but the slave-driver’s contempt for us. “So help me God,” continued the speaker, “I will never vote for such an oligarchy. Wait another Congress, and under the lead of Flanders—God bless him— Louisiana will come to us a free State.” (Deafening applause.)
 The speaker read from a paper published in New Orleans, edited, owned and controlled by colored people. It is published half in French and English; and the editors deriving their education from Parisian colleges, their French is much superior to that of their neighbors. He read articles seconding his own views, and showing that the present State Government of Louisiana does not entitle it to admission into the union of States, such as those of the North.
 The eloquent Judge spoke fully two hours, urging that either we must accept the negro as a citizen or abandon our institutions. No other course was possible. The speaker was listened to throughout with great attention, save when hearty applause showed the effect that he produced. —Philadelphia Gazette.
 The Liberator.
 No Union with Slaveholders!
 BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1865.
 I REPEAT THE CECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO 18 FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BE WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MIST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
 ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
 The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9th, at 10 o’clock, A. M.
 The Executive Committee urge upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society’s existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
 Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
 On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
 WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
 WENDELL PHILLIPS,
 C. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
 THE ANNUAL MEETING.
 The approaching anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society is one that should be well represented by its members and auxiliary Societies, for the reasons stated in the official call of its Executive Committee. It is not only desirable, but to a certain extent important, that whatever may be the conclusion then arrived at as to the continuance or dissolution of the Society, there should be a full attendance, and a thoughtful consideration of the whole subject before coming together. It will be an anniversary held under circumstances wholly unlike any that has preceded it; for the doom of slavery has been decreed by the nation, and the year of jubilee is come.
 On the 8th of November, 1864, the question of so amending the Constitution of the United States as to make it illegal for any person to be held in slavery in any State or Territory in the Union was submitted to the popular vote, and sustained by an overwhelming majority. On the 31st of January last, the U. S. House of Representatives concurred with the Senate in submitting the aforesaid amendment to the Legislature of the several States for their approval or rejection. Eighteen of the twenty-five States, competent to decide upon it, have promptly recorded an almost unanimous vote in favor of the measure. Three only have rejected it—New Jersey, Delaware, and Kentucky—the only States “that opposed the reelection of Mr. Lincoln, and the only States whose loyalty is open to suspicion. Of the concurrence of all the other States, at the earliest opportunity, there is no room for doubt; so that, while only one more State is needed to make the requisite number (three-fourths) specified by the Constitution, it is certain that four more States—i. e. 22 out of 25will give their cordial sanction to the amendment. Even if the vote
 <c03>
 of any re-constructed State is to be consulted, and made essential to an official recognition of the constitutional abolition of slavery—an absurdity which we believe will be scouted by the people, and by the Supreme Court of the United States, if an appeal be made to it—still, as no such State can be recognized by Congress or the Government, except it rest upon an anti-slavery basis, there can be no motive for it to oppose the amendment; the adoption of which, there-fore, by whatever number of States may be finally agreed upon, is beyond all doubt or anxiety. Nothing remains to be done but certain formalities, in order to make the extinction of slavery, and the right of every human being on the American soil to personal freedom as against any slave claimant, an acknowledged fact, to be enforced by all the powers of the government.
 Hence, the grand object of the American Anti-Slavery Society is accomplished. No longer are agents or tracts needed to convince the people that slavery is a wrong and curse which ought to be immediately abolished; that there is, and ever most be, an irrepressible conflict between free and slave institutions; that the rebellion is divine retribution for our national sin of oppression. No further teaching of this kind is called for. Neither Church nor State, neither army nor people require it. Their minds are made up, and their verdicts recorded. Nothing is so popular as the hearty denunciation of slavery, root and branch. The most eloquent and powerful anti-slavery speeches are no longer made by abolitionists. Where we have only whispered, others can now applaudingly speak in thunder-tones, as readily in Savannah or Charleston as in Boston and New York, and wherever the flag goes. As drops are lost in the ocean, so are the original anti slavery men and women lost among the millions who have come over to their side, and are crushing the” “peculiar institution” beneath their massive weight. Once separate and distinct from the great mass of the community, the abolitionists are no longer” “fanatical” or singular in any thing that they demand for the colored race, whether relating to their liberation from chattel servitude, their education and elevation, or their complete enfranchisement as a matter of justice and safety. It seems to us, therefore, that the time for disbanding the American Anti Slavery Society, and all its auxiliaries, has fully come; that their longer existence will at best be merely nominal, and, consequently, neither advantageous nor desirable; that they have done their work as anti slavery bodies, and may now wind up their operations with credit and dignity; and that they will exhibit weakness rather than wisdom, egotism rather than good sense, in assuming that they may be as indispensable in the future as they certainly have been in the past. It is for them to see, and greatly rejoice at the fact, that their cause is now myriad-handed, too powerful to be resisted in any direction, and sweeping onward with the force of Niagara.
 “ Superfluous lags the veteran on the stage.”
 Let there be no feeble lingering of life on their part, merely on technical issues—such as that the requisite number of States have not yet adopted the constitutional amendment, or that the emancipated slaves have not yet been brought from the auction-block to the ballot-box. If anything is determined in this struggle, and by the nation, it is the utter and everlasting extinction of slavery. All controversy has ended about it. No sane man doubts that all the States are a unit on the constitutional amendment, and will so record their votes as fast as legislative opportunity is presented, excepting the three semi-seditious, copperhead States that have already done their worst. Where there is neither doubt nor uncertainty, there is no cause for suspicion or delay.
 “ It is done!
Clang of bell and roar of gun
 Send the tidings up and down!
 How the belfries rock and reel!
 How the great guns, peal on peal,
 Fling the joy from town to town!
 For the Lord
 On the whirlwind is abroad;
 In the earthquake he has spoken;
 He has smitten with his thunder
 The iron walls asunder,•
 And the gates of brass are broken!”
 As for the political status of the liberated bondmen, that question—important as it is—does not require a separate anti-slavery organization, but it is to be argued and settled upon its own merits; and is already challenging the attention of all parties in the lane and will be sustained or opposed without reference to the question of abolitionism per se. No doubt it will give rise to new associations and new measures, which will lend to it whatever of zeal or devotion may be called for in the struggle for political equality, without regard to complexional distinctions.
 Believing, therefore, that the American Anti-Society, —reverently thanking God for having made it a signal instrumentality for saving the nation from destruction by effecting the abolition of slavery, and rejoicing that henceforth there is to be in our land neither slave holder nor slave, —may with propriety, credit and advantage dissolve its organization at the coming anniversary, we shall give our voice and vote for this conclusion; leaving the members of the Society to continue or end its existence as they shall think most expedient.
 M.D. CONWAY.
 We publish an interesting letter from THOMAS H BARKER, Esq., of Manchester, England, which is mainly in reference to an abusive and discreditable article which appeared some time since in Fraser’s Magazine, from the pen of Moncure D. Conway, concerning President Lincoln in special, and his administration generally, with some incidental personal assaults upon others. That article we have not seen but the extracts which Mr. Barker has made from it, as illustrating its spirit and object, are sufficient to show its author to be in no enviable state of mind. Ever since he has been in England, he has been performing various” “fantastic tricks before high heaven, ”—beginning with making a treasonable overture to the rebel commissioner, Mason of Virginia, and ending with a proposition for the recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy, on condition that it will abolish the slavery on its soil which, on the firs of January 1,1863, was abolished by Abraham Lincoln, whom to caricature and misrepresent, in the true Virginia spirit, appears to give him constant employment and uncommon delight He has been a mischief-maker ever since he landed in England. Instead of bestowing his special attention upon the rebel emissaries and their sympathizers, and endeavoring to strengthen the administration and government of this country in the good-will of Europeans, he has improved every opportunity to bring the President and his measures into contempt; and just in proportion too, as progress has been made in the right direction! Nothing can evince more strongly his meanness and malignity than his grouping Abraham Lincoln with “the Polks, Fillmores, Pierces and Buchanans of our country, and describing him, after the manner of rebel and copperhead blackguards, as” “long and lank as the traditional Yankee; lean and hungry as the ‘poor white’ of the South that he was born; with the arm of a Hoosler that can ‘whip his weigh in wild-cats’; with a backward length of skull and feeble occiput,” &c., &c. Again, his effrontery and mendacity are brought out in bold relief in his monstrous assertion—” Never before in America has a President been elected, to detected by his own electors as Abraham Lincoln”!!—followed by another assertion equally astounding, “This I say with hundreds of documents before me to prove it”!! The exact truth is, that no President has ever been so highly appreciated and warmly supported (George Washington excepted) “by his own electors as Abraham Lincoln”; and the attempt of Mr. Conway to decry him will only. recoil upon himself.
 Mr. Barker is Secretary of the United Kingdom Alliance for the suppression of intemperance, and an active and influential executive officer of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society.
 <c04>
 FRATERNITY FESTIVAL.
 The seventh anniversary of the Parker Fraternity was celebrated lasthut Friday evening by a festive meeting at their spacious and beautiful rooms. 554 Washington Street. A large number of the friends of the Fraternity united with its members to celebrate this occasion, the arrangements were skillfully made by the committees which had them in charge, and the result was a joyous and delightful festival.
 Upon and around the desk were beautiful bouquets. A hand occupied the musician’s gallery, and introduced with its lively strains the performances of the evening. A well-selected choir of singers sat near the platform, and songs, duets, quartettes were given with good effect in the intervals of speaking.
 The President of the Fraternity, Mr. Charles Fitx, read a brief and interesting address, referring to various circumstances connected with the origin and progress of the Society, and making suggestions in regard to its present and future usefulness. Next followed remarks, humorous and sentimental, from Mr. John Wetherbee, Jr. Then excellent addresses were made by William Lloyd Garrison and Rev. S. R. Calthrop.. A letter was then read from Rev. David A. Wasson, regretting that circumstances prevented him from attending the meeting, and giving friendly and judicious counsel to the Association. A final speech had been expected from Hon. George Thompson, who was present; but that gentleman thought fit, instead, to read a passage from a poem, of which he expressed great admiration, Montgomery’s, “Pelican Island.”
 After the speaking and singing, a short interval was given to social conversation and promenade, and then the party ascended to the supper-room in the next story, where a handsome collation was spread for them. After an hour spent in harmonious and appreciative discussion of this part of the entertainment, the members and guests of the Fraternity returned to the Hall, which had in the meantime been cleared for dancing. With this agreeable and salutary exercise the Festival of the Parker Fraternity was closed; and, lest any one should suspect the dancing to have been unduly protracted, it may be mentioned that even those who staid latest went away early. —C. K. W.
 NEW ENGLAND FREEDMEN’S AID SOCIETY. A special meeting of this Society was held on Tuesday evening, at the Melodeon. E. Atkinson presided, and made a few introductory remarks. Rev. Dr. F. Tompkins, of England, who has recently returned from a visit to the freedmen of the South, addressed the meeting. He made some statements of the various interesting things he had seen and beard, and referred at some length to the course taken by England in American affairs. The meeting was subsequently addressed by George Thompson, of England, in an eloquent and an effective manner.
 The meeting was thinly attended, evidently for the want of a general knowledge that it would be held. This was a matter of regret—especially as Dr. Tompkins has proved himself to be one of the warmest friends and most earnest advocates of the cause of our government and country in England, and deserved, therefore, a strong popular greeting in Boston.
 SUNDAY SERVICES. A public meeting under the auspices of the Ward Eleven Freedmen’s Aid Society was held Sunday evening in the Shawmut Universalist Church, Shawmut Avenue. The President. E. W Kinsley, Esq., occupied the chair, and the religious exercises were conducted by Rev. Sumner Ellis, associate pastor of the Universalist Society. Rev. T. B Thayer, Rev. James M. Sims of Savannah—brother of the fugitive Thomas Sims, who was sent back into slavery from Boston a few years since,—and Rev Sumner Ellis urged the importance of aiding the freedmen.
 Miss Delia A. Webster delivered an address in the Tremont Temple, Sunday evening, relating to her imprisonment by slaveholders at different times in the State of Kentucky, her encounters with guerillas and other savages.
 A temperance address was delivered, under the auspices of the Suffolk Temperance Union, Sunday evening, by Rev. Mr. Manning, in the Old South Church. At the close of the exercises, the pledge was circulated, and two hundred and fifty-five signatures obtained.
 BANGOR, March 22,1865.
 MY DEAR MR. GARRISON—Enclosed you will find three dollars and fifty cents for the Liberator from January 1st, 1865, to January 1st, 1866.
 I have been long wanting to write to assure you of my cordial approval of the course you have pursued towards the Administration. With you, I can exclaim, thank God for Abraham Lincoln! I know he has not always done all I could have wished; but the regret that he has not done more shall not prevent me from rejoicing that he has done so much. We are so much nearer the high water mark of complete anti-slavery triumph than I ever expected we should be in my day, that I will not place myself out of sympathy with the spirit of the day by any captious criticism or unreasonable demand, but rather hail each advancing wave with a glad thanksgiving. We shall best secure the future by gratefully receiving the good of the present, and working from that in wise patience and large hope.
Yours, for universal freedom and equal justice,
 A. BATTLES.
 LEOMINSTER, March 20, 1865.
 At a public meeting of the Leominster Freedmen’s Aid Society, held on the evening of March 19th, an address of great power was delivered by Mrs. FRANCES E. W. HARPER, a colored lady of culture and refinement, whose eloquence in behalf of her people, and in interpreting the mission of the war, held the undivided attention of a large audience for over an hour.
 It is with great pleasure that I recommend Mrs. HARPER to all friends of truth as a lecturess of peculiar power. Her address was characterized by clearness of thought, remarkable facility of language, and an unction from on high. We believe she is doing yeoman service for truth, and bid her God speed.
 SAMUEL H. VIRGIN,
 President Leominster Freedmen’s Aid Society.
 THE LATE DANIEL FOSTER.
 DEAR FRIEND—I am glad to respond, according to my ability, to the appeal in the last Liberator, in behalf of the family of the Christian patriot, DANIEL FOSTER. It is a privilege to contribute to the payment of the debt that humanity owes to his memory.
 “Who would not sing for Lycidas?—himself could sing.” Who would not contribute for the family of one whose whole life was a contribution for the whole human family? Among the highest names on the bright roll of those who watched for and foresaw the nation’s peril, and helped to arouse the sleeping patriotism of the country, —among those champions of mercy and justice, earnest in counsel and fearless in fight, who counted not their own lives dear, nor even the dearer interests of their loved ones, when the Master’s service required the sacrifice, — among all who have labored in the vineyard, and have trod the red wine-press of God’s husbandry, none, in faithfulness and bravery, have exceeded DANIEL FOSTER, “ the tender and true.” He trusted his wife and children to the protection of God, and the just generosity of his country—for whose cause he laid down his life. The appeal in their behalf is an honorable claim. It is a grateful privilege as well as a sacred duty to honor it
 Yours, DANIEL MANN,
 A. A. Surg. U. S. A. Mt.. Pleasant Hospital, Washington., D. C. March 27th, 1865.
 CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. The Legislative Committee, to whom was referred the subject of capital punishment, have agreed to report that it is inexpedient to legislate at the present time in reference to a repeal of the law.
 <c05>
 LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXX.
 NEW YORK, March 23,1865.
 To the Editor of the Liberator:
You may remember, as every one had cause to who came in contact with him, encountering a Mr. Richard Yeadon’s, of South Carolina, not after the Southern fashion with deadly weapons, but with words, in the parlor of the late Theodore Parker. Mr. Yeadon was then on a tour through the North, and was laboring under the idea that his movements deserved to be publicly chronicled,—by his own hand, if no other would do the office for him. The incident of meeting that distinguished agitator whose head had by statute a marketable value in the State adjoining his own, was not to be passed over in silence, and the Herald of this city was indulgent enough to allow him to edit one of its issues (such was the prolixity of the man!) in order that his discussion of the slavery question with Wm. Lloyd Garrison might not be lost to posterity. That was in the days when the Herald alone cloud publish inflammatory articles, and yet be circulated at the South, and doubtless Mr. Yeadon’s report was widely read in that quarter. I remember that he then bore testimony, as he ever afterwards did, to the perfect courtesy of his., opponent, who was always ready to be interrupted, and give the fullest hearing to the other side; and if this is a commendable quality in ordinary debate, it was a virtue with so verbose a fellow. Mr. Yeadon eventually returned to his home, but not till he had inflicted several further letters upon the community, and bored his friends and foes alike. I think his latest appearance was in Charleston, where he introduced Mr. Everett as the, “laudator of Washington,” and betrayed his ancient infirmity of speech. What part, if any, he took in consummating the secession of his native State, I do not know. That he has been in hearty sympathy with the rebellion, I am informed, apart from its general notoriety, by a personal friend of his, a clergyman, who stuckstock to his loyalty to liberty and Union, and somehow to Charleston, till a month before its capture, when he escaped in a blockade-runner, and reached this port. In perhaps his lasthut interview with Mr. Yeadon, the latter said to him” You and I, Mr. R., have differed totally on this question, [secession and slavery,] but I now admit that you were right, and I was wrong.” This conviction cannot have been weakened since that conversation., Somewhere, we must presume, between the James River and the Neuse, the unhappy exile is pondering the consequences of an error which was worse than crime.
 The somewhat famous interrogatory—” Why don’t you go South?”—which you were once at the pains to answer, when propounded in Faneuil Hall by the Judge (if I mistake not) who has just retired from your District Court, has not less effectually been silenced by the abolitionists since the war began. I mean abolitionists in the broadest sense. There was a very good reason why they should not go South when the act involved the making of last wills and testaments, as in a Roman army before a battle. Their object was, like Archimedes’, to move the world, and in seeking for a place to stand on, they were not likely to choose the gallows. Not that they were afraid of death, but that they had a divine burden, which was not to be rashly laid down. When, however, the time for converting the North had past, because the designs of slavery upon its life were manifest, then those who had labored for the downfall of the system, under whatever name and by whatever means, did rush to the South. Thousands donned the blue coat of the volunteer, and carried their principles with their flag from the Ohio to the Gulf. Massachusetts sent her quota with the motto of the Commonwealth, never half so glorious as when the epitaph of some heroic martyr, whose rest in Southern soil was easy since his sword had made it free—
 “ Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem.”
 Mr. Phillips was represented by that lamented nephew who perished untimely at Port Royal, from excessive devotion to the cause of the freedmen. The other day your son, a double ambassador for yourself and Mr. Thompson, halted his company of colored soldiers in the streets of Charleston, but found no Richard Yeadon to uphold the divinity of slavery, or to renew the acquaintance formed with his father. John Brown has his representative at the same focus of treason and oppression—Mr. Red path—who has had the honor and audacity to inaugurate a system of public schools in Charleston, with no prejudice against color—i. e., against the whites, who are permitted to attend, if they will only behave themselves, and obey their (may be) colored teachers! You, who recall the loathing of the chivalry for our free institutions, from press to school-house, and how they destroyed our papers in the mail, and emasculated our text-books, before they would allow them to be used at the South, with what feelings do you read, in the correspondence of the Tribune, that at Charleston, “all rebel school-book”s have been ordered to be delivered up. Receipts are given to their owners for’—copies of incendiary publications confiscated’”! Language at last is returning to its legitimate meaning. It followed our twisted morals in obeying the evil loadstone of slavery. Ere long it will point due North again, and swerve, we hope, no more forever.
 If the freedmen should compare their experiences at the end of the war,”, how multifarious and diverse they would be! Some have-obtained their liberty, as of old, by fleeing to the Free States, within our army lines, or to our blockading fleet; others have been abandoned by their masters; others still have been taken out of bondage into the army. Thousands, when thus freed, have joined the Federal forces as laborers, teamsters, etc.; thousands have volunteered as soldiers, and thousands been compelled to military service. Of those who, for whatever reasons of age, debility or sex, have escaped enlistment, some have been left in the nakedness of slavery to shift as best they might; others, like those of Georgetown, S. C., under the orders of Admiral Dahlgren, have been furnished by their late owners with sixty days’ rations; others, like the freedmen in the Department of the Gulf, have been constrained to labor at fixed wages; others, as in the eastern district of Virginia, under the equitable rule of Lieut.-Col. White, have been constrained to labor, but for competitive wages; and others, finally, as at Port Royal, have been left under less stringent regulations to develop habits of industry and maintain their independence. These diversities are characteristic of the unsettled state of affairs occasioned by the war, and are to be attributed to the lapse of time which has been covered by hostilities, the necessities of different localities, and the impossibility of concert on the part of subordinates. The uniformity has not been greater since we obtained military unity in the Lieutenant-General; for though the military have had almost exclusive dealing with the freed people, they have been charged with really extra official duties, their business being to suppress the rebellion in arms, and not to reorganize society. It must be said for the blacks, that they have submitted with the most exemplary patience to the various experiments that have been tried upon them. Their good nature seems in exhaustible, so that the very defectiveness a of certain schemes in which they are involved hi obscured by their endurance and relative happiness. The last test of their patience has been made in Richmond, at the instance of Davis and Lee, and with the approval of President Lincoln. They are to be bayonetted into fighting for whips and handcuffs. It will be pitiable if they are forced to be dangerous to their deliverers under Grant and Sherman, or to be exposed to danger themselves. They are certain to desert at the first opportunity, and may even turn a crisis of battle by a right- about- face in which their muzzles will point toward Richmond. Jeff. Davis was right in chiding the delay of the rebel Congress in arming the negro. They have left only time enough to train him to be a peril to themselves, and no reinforcement against the impending doom. They might as well appeal for succor to the ghost of Nat Turner! M. DU PAYS.
 <c06>
LETTER FROM THOMAS H. BARKER, ESQ.
 MANCHESTER, (England,) March 4th, 1855.
 DEAR MR. GARRISON–I feel moved in spirit and deep sympathy to write you a few lines of friendly congratulation on this joyful 4th of March 1865. During the past fortnight, the mails have been bringing us most inspiring intelligence, making the hearts of all friends of freedom leap for joy.
 We were scarcely prepared, sanguine as we were, for the announcement that Congress would be able, before the close of its last session, to pass the Amendment of the Constitution, abolishing and prohibiting slavery throughout the Union.. That was indeed a great, glorious, crowning act of justice, policy, humanity and statesmanship—–the greatest event of the age, when it shall have been approved and ratified by the State Legislatures. Then will your first great Declaration of Independence become indeed a solid, enduring, noble REALITY, securing freedom as the birthright of all men; and soon must come the precious heritage of liberty—equal rights and privileges of citizenship.
 On the 28th ult., the Executive and a large number of the most active friends of the UNION and ENASCIPATION SOCIETY, convened by circular, met at the Trevelyan Hotel, and spent a delightful evening in celebrating the adoption of the Anti-Slavery Amendment. You will have received the newspaper reports of the meeting ere this can reach you. We were able to report that fifteen States had already ratified, and only one (Delaware) had refused to wipe out the foul blot. Surely that vote is not a finality, but will soon be reconsidered and reversed. I cannot conceive how it is possible that even one loyal State can be so blind, so perverse, so unpatriotic, and so criminal as to vote against the Amendment. It seems to me social abasement moral infamy, political suicide, of the most reckless and unaccountable character. But I suppose there is an explanation of the absurd and hateful vote. We shall watch with deepening interest the action and decision of the other loyal States, until the constitutional ratification shall have been consummated. What a grand thing it would be if we had the Atlantic telegraph in operation, to flash us the glorious intelligence from day to day!
 We have also been thrilled and elated with the intelligence that Maryland, Missouri and Tennesses have bounded into the glorious phalanx of Free States, by self-emancipating ordinances, giving immediate, unconditional, uncompensated liberty to all their slaves.” “God bless Free Missouri” and Free Maryland, and the GREAT FREE REPUBLIC OF AMERICA, that soon is to be, “without a master and without a slave”–a vast Human Brotherhood!
 How significant it is, that no sooner do we get the news that Congress has resolved in favor of the Amendment of the Constitution, eliminating the virus of slavery-the foul source of your social corruptions and sectional conflicts but almost the next important military news informs us that CHARLESTON, the cradle of secession, the focus of rebellion, the nest of treason, has fallen into the hands of Mr. Lincoln’s loyal soldiers! Is there no providence in this! Nothing more than a mere coincidence! To me it seems vastly more. The good old book tells us that when a man’s ways please God, he will make even his enemies to be at peace with him; and the same must be true of nations and communities. Only purge out utterly and forever that great social virus of oppression, cruelty and lust embodied in the Slate Power that has so long dominated and degraded American character, institutions and policy, and then will you become a peaceful, united, free, happy and noble NATIONNATION; no traitor seeking to disrupt, and no foe daring to disturb. But, so long as slavery-a vestige of it-remains, you cannot hope for and ought not to have settled, solid, sober security.
I do not know if your attention has been called in a remarkable article in Fraser’s Magazine for January 1865, on ”PERSIDENT LINCOLN,” by ”AN ANERICAN ABOLITIONIST” (Rev. M. D. Conway of Virginia). It is an article that should be pondered on your side of the Atlantic as well as on ours. The writer is, no doubt, better known amongst you than in England, where he has not succeeded in gaining the confidence of many of the stanch and tried friends of abolition. His” Testimonies concerning Slavery” are eloquent, forcible, and inspiring; but his memorable diplomacy with the Rebel Commissioner, Mason, has always been lamented as a miserable and dishonorable blunder, that ought to have been humbly and sincerely apologized for, and not justified by representations involving others who never dreams of being made co-diplomatists in such a freak of disloyalty to country and cause.
I cannot give you an analysis of the entire article, which extends over twenty pages of 
 Fraser; but will extract a few salient points, and leave them to make their own impression on the minds of your candid and intelligent readers. To me they appear to be unjust, ungenerous, and ungraceful in the extreme, as coming from the pen of one who assumes to represent the American Abolitionists. The rancor of the entire article is directed against two men-ABRAHAM LINCOLN and WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. The only man who receives unqualified laudation is WENDELL PHILLIPS, who, no doubt, well merits all the encomiums that are lavished upon him by his friend-except those compliment s that are paid to him at the expense of another, who, for sober steadiness of judgment, unswerving, unselfish and unyielding fidelity and devotion to ABOLITIONISM, is behind no one, even in the estimation of Mr. Phillips himself, and of the friends of universal liberty the wide world over. 
 The article commences by holding up the peoples of the North and the President to ridicule, by alluding to the amusing story of Cervantes who” “met a student mounted on a most villainous-looking nag. The poor animal was blind with one eye, and could not see well with the other; and it was so unsound in the legs that it moved on with differently. The student used the spur to induce a quicker pace, whereupon the horse stopped altogether. Belabored for this, he kicked, and plunged, and came to the ground with his rider, who lay in the dust uttering a torrent of imprecations.” No doubt this is very amusing; but is it an amiable, just, truthful representation of American Federal politics, at the present time, as regarded from the stand-point of a genuine representative of the Abolitionists? The writer of the article no doubt thinks so, for he goes on to say: 
 “Could it be anything short of a similar information on the part of the people of the Northern States of America, that has led them, at the end of such an experience as they have had for four years, to declare Abraham Lincoln their fountain of living waters! That the destinies of the United States, in its present crisis, should by any possibility have been recommitted to the present President, must surely increase the doubts of thoughtful men, even in that country, whether under an unqualified democracy the presence of the right man in the right place can be other than the exceptional occurrence that it has proved to be in America, where, instead of the Phillipses and Emersions, the Polks, Fillmores, Pierces, Buchanans and Lincolns come uppermost in the government as inevitably as if its ballots were loaded dice.”
 I suppose the legitimate inference from this is, that, in M. D. C’s view, an” “unqualified democracy” is not a desirable form of government; the proof being that Mr. Phillips and Mr. Emerson were neither of them elected, nor even thought of as President in place of Mr. Lincoln. I fancy that neither Mr. Phillips nor Mr. Emerson, who are really wise and great men in their respective spheres, will not than M. D. Conway for having put their names forward in this rhapsodical manner, to the disparagement of, “unqualified democracy,” both of them being, I believe, true and enlightened Republicans of the highest order. 
 Of Mr. Lincoln, the writer of the article speaks as being, “well-known in the little town of Springfield as an able pleader at the bar, as a good neighbor, and a first-rate story-teller. The entire extent of his antislavery opinion was comprised in his opposition to the extension of slavery into regions where it did not exist. * * * One might swear that he was the type of the American Union as it was, and constitution as it 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
is. Long and lank as the traditional Yankee; lean and hungry as the ‘poor white’ of the South that he was born; with the arm of a Hoosier ‘that can whip his weight in wild-cats;’ with a back ward length of skull and feeble occiput, which reminded one of the Indian characteristics; and yet with an eye full of softhess, a voice full of affection and even delicacy, he stood the sum of a long column of Boones and Bowies, Pograms and Puritans. * * * There he is; there he was pre-ordained ‘to be. If we do not like him, so much the worse for us; for to be rid of him implies certain preliminary dealings with such hard facts as Kentuck, Hoosier, and Wolverine are.”
    This is certainly vivacious and spicy, and I suppose not altogether a caricature, but a fair sketch of Mr. Lincoln’s outer man. But the artist goes on to describe Mr. Lincoln’s official career, very freely and “fairly,” he says; dealing with public facts; never, however, allowing him the least particle of credit for any good that is done, but tracing home to him the moral responsibility of all the wrong-doing both of the Congress and the Army.
    “On entering Washington,” we are told, “Mr. Lincoln made his capital blunder in selecting, as his ministers, broken-down party hacks and passes presidential aspirants. With one or two honorable exceptions, that original Cabinet (only two members of it remain) was as bad as could have been made out of the Republican party.” This, of course, is an assertion that you, in America, can better test the exact value of than we can; but I can conceive, under the circumstances, that Mr. Lincoln might have good State reasons for not selecting either Mr. Phillips or Mr. Emerson in the place of Mr. Seward or any other of his cabinent officers. It was not policy, and would not have been statesmanship, to have passed by the leaders of the great Republican party; to have singled out an Abolitionist of the ultra type, for high and responsible office, in view of the temper prevailing both at the North and the South. And no reasonable man, with political sagacity, has ever blamed Mr. Lincoln for not hoisting the Abolition flag in his inaugural proceedings. But Mr. Conway evidently thinks differently; for he knows not only what was done, but the motive of action—the reason why! “It [the Cabinet] was selected simply because Mr. Lincoln, the average man, wished an average cabinet: he must have horse, and alligator, and Puritan, and border-ruffian, and democrat, and abolitionist, and all things that swim, creep, or fly in that primal swamp of American politics. Mr. Lincoln’s object was clearly to fasten his hook on to every section and every phase of opinion and no opinion in the North. The result of it was absolutely frightful.” Of course, all your readers know the result, and do not need Mr. Conway’s graphic picture-somewhat more vivid than just. There was, no doubt, during 1861 and 1862, much to try the spirits and the patience of the anti-slavery men. But I think the following words are not an exact portraiture of the state of things in the abolition camp in 1861, after the fall of Fort Donelson:—“These things [the acts of Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Seward, &c.] made the anti-slavery men frantic. They felt that they had been betrayed. They knew that if the Union should be restored at that time, it would be recemented by the blood of the slave. They unanimously denounced the administration, and prayed that the Southern armies might not be defeated.” I think, if I remember rightly, that there were always some anti-slavery men who had faith in God, and confidence in Abraham Lincoln, even in the darkest hour of the Republic’s great agony and bloody sweat; and I could pick out noble and eloquent passages from the speeches of Mr. Phillips and many others, who did not deal in frantic exclamations, or preach a gospel of despondency. But, we are told, “Mr. Lincoln himself created the copperhead (the popular name of a certain poisonous snake) which he has never since been able to crush, and at this moment must employ much of his strength in watching.” It is a pity that Fernando Wood and Co. are not more affectionate and dutiful towards their Father Abraham, who, it seems, is the father of the unfaithful and disloyal of the North! Believe it—who can!
    Mr. Lincoln having in vain urged the Border States to agree to compensated emancipation, the terms of which he would induce Congress to arrange, he was induced by the pressure of abolition sentiment to issue a proclamation, as Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy, declaring the slaves free. ”Such a proclamation he wrote. Mr. Seward, it is believed, managed to keep it in the President’s desk for six months. At last, he came out on September 22, 1862, with a preliminary proclamation, declaring that he would, on the first of January succeeding, pronounce the slaves free in such States as should then remain in rebellion.” According to this, Mr. Lincoln’s own mind was pretty well fixed in the direction of a radical emancipation policy, early in the second year of his Presidency. No doubt there were what appeared to be good State reasons, founded on the military situation and other considerations, to back up Mr. Seward’s advice. But, be that as it may, of course Mr. Conway would be delighted with the Emancipation Proclamation, and would be grateful to Mr. Lincoln for the great act of JUSTIVCE and HUMANITY when it did come. Let us hear what he has to say about it:-
    “Sure enough, on the first of January (1863) came Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation, freeing the slaves where-ever he had no actual power to do it, and holding them still to be slaves wherever he had such power. By these means, he ingeniously gained all the disadvantages of such a proclamation, and none of the promised advantages: he exasperated the slave interest South and North, but liberated only a few dozen slaves, if so many. But the edict was not meant to liberate slaves; it was meant to be a tub to the abolition whale.”
    Will the American abolitionists endorse that foul impeachment of the honesty, truthfulness, and good faith of President Lincoln? Is it true that “only a few dozen slaves, if so many,” have been liberated by the Proclamation? And had Mr. Lincoln the CONSTITUTIONAL POWER to liberate the slaves in the loyal States by a mere edict, political or military? Mr. Conway’s words imply that he had the power, but would not use it. In other words, he gravely represents Mr. Lincoln as a trickster, a scoundrel, and a base hypocrite. If he really thinks so, I am not surprised he left America in despair and disgust; and that he should write as he does to pour contempt on the people of the North, who have again elected Mr. Lincoln as the President of the Republic.
    But I must pass on, and must pass over many passages I should have liked to quote. “One most painful thing,” says Mr. Conway, “was that Charles Sumner should shrink from uttering in the Senate the criticisms upon Mr. Lincoln and the little General to whom the President was obstinately immolating two or three thousand soldiers weekly, besides the rights of the negroes—criticisms of which he was lavish in private consultation.” This may be exactly true, but it only indicates that Mr. Sumner was wisely reticent, it may be, where Mr. C. would have been recklessly foolish. Small politicians often rush in where great statesmen fear to lead. McClellan, no doubt, had great popular support; and Mr. Lincoln could not supplant him until a really great general, having the confidence of the army and the sympathy of the people, appeared. I do not think that either Mr. C. or his beau ideals of statesmen, Mr. P. and Mr. E., would have been able to have done much better, if quite so well as Mr. Lincoln has done, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy. 
    But we are treated to some characteristic Conway-isms on the difficulties that arose in regard to the pay of the colored soldiers. The style of treatment adopted by Mr. C. will be seen by the following culminating passage:—
    “But this remission did not occur without the shedding of blood. A noble black sergeant declared that he would not serve unless the contract was fulfilled, and advised his fellows to take the same stand, (for the difference between $7 and $13 meant the rights of equal manhood,) and Mr. Lincoln had him shot.”
    Those who know the facts, and who remember the charges, specifications, and proofs adduced in regard

<c02>
to the character and conduct of this “noble black sergeant,” will know how to estimate and characterize this mythical and malicious misrepresentation.
    The animus of the article against Mr. Lincoln is apparent in every page and almost every paragraph:—”He was nominated for his talking abilities, but not one deed has he done for liberty, except when dragged into it. The anti-slavery men of that State, (Missouri,) without an exception, so for as I have ever heard, ascribe it to the President that Missouri is yet a slave State. Even to free Maryland, struggling far her new Constitution, he could only say coldly. “I wish to see in process of extinction, that only thing that could bring this nation to civil war.” Referring to the effort in Congress, last year, to amend the Constitution, Mr. C. says: “Every republican knows that its defeat was caused partly by a wider-spread doubt that he would veto it.” Explaining the grounds of Mr. Lincoln’s re-nomination for the Presidency, it is more than suggested that there is something in the background “too painful” even for Mr. Phillips to declare! “Mr. Lincoln’s power to divide the Republican party had grown out of his having, through the enormous military and official patronage of which he was master, and the sham State organizations he had made, brought up enough delegates to carry the caucus with him.” Of course, your readers know all about this. But what will they say to the following assertion?-
    “Never before in America has a President been elected, so detested by his own electors as Abraham Lincoln. This I say with hundreds of documents before me that prove it. Can it be said that the Copperheads have been defeated, when they forced the nomination of Lincoln by the panic they inspired? Can any one really believe that the anti-slavery men or the republicans have elected their President? Mr. Lincoln was nominated by the official patronage he commanded, and elected because of the fear of that Banquo of the President’s own raising-the Chicago Platform.”
    The italics of the above are Mr. Conway’s own, and require no comment. Verily, you Americans are a queer people, if M. D. C. fairly and truthfully represents you!
The following passage will amuse you, if you have patience to read it:—
“As for the Amendment of the Constitution to abolish slavery, does not the emphasis given to it by the republican party and the President show that neither of them are contemplating any fidelity to the emancipation proclamation? The new Congress, which alone would propose such an amendment, does not come into power until 1865—the States could not act upon such a proposition until 1866-67. Supposing the requisite two-thirds of the Congress to propose it, and three-fourths of the States to adopt it, it can then operate only upon the few remaining slaves of Kentucky and Missouri, and will be powerless against the great heart of slavery in the hands of a man [Mr. Lincoln] whose avowed plan is to give all anti-slavery measures into the hands of slavery’s friends to be carried out.” 
This reads strange in the light of recent historic facts, showing that the last Congress actually did pass the Amendment clause; and that at least fifteen States have already ratified it! Surely, Mr. Conway is no prophet and no politician, and his predictions of what will be are as untrustworthy as his representations of the past. “When men gather grapes from thorns, the abolitionists will reap the harvest that they have sown in tears from what those men at Washington are doing. Most assuredly, there is no victorious Union during the next four years imaginable, in which the abolitionists would not be what to-day are independents in England, Mazzinists in Italy, or Jacobins in France.”
Mr. Garrison’s name is only once mentioned throughout the entire article, and even in that case the printer had turned it into Harrison. But that was a matter of such small importance that the author, when correcting the proofs, did not notice it. Referring to the secession movement that commenced in the South on Mr. Lincoln’s election, Mr. C. says:
“For months these movements went on, both before and immediately after the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln at Washington. During all this time, not a voice was heard in the entire nation advocating the retention of the South by force. Phillips, Harrison, Beecher, Sumner Greeley, and all the great anti-slavery leaders, were in favor of building a golden bridge for the departing States. War was scarcely a contemplated possibility.”
The next reference to Mr. Garrison is on page 17, where Mr. Phillips is complimented as that Abdiel of American politics,” whilst Mr. Garrison is alluded to in the following passage:—
“At this point, [the renomination of Mr. Lincoln, ] the standard-bearer of the abolition phalanx, faltered and failed. A great-hearted man, and adequate to great service when he was in a minority, he had tasted the sweets of partial success just enough to be lured from his height as a reformer. He lowered the standard for political success. By this sad failure the anti -slavery ranks were hopelessly divided and demoralized, so that not even the heroism and eloquence of Wendell Phillips, and the few who remained true, could recover their position. Thus, to the pioneer of freedom in America must be ascribed that division and weakness of the noble band that had followed him, which became the strength of the Lincoln-Seward dynasty.”
Once more Mr. Conway refers to Mr. Garrison as “the lost leader.” But I cannot think that the abolitionists of America will ever endorse these representations, and I am sure the abolitionists here will treat them with the attention they merit—no more. What will Mr. Conway say to the following noble and candid utterance of his “Abdiel” friend, Wendell Phillips, at the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Boston, January 26th, 1865?—
“I have never uttered an anti-slavery thought which I did not owe to his [Mr. Garrison’s] inspiration; I have never done an anti-slavery act of which the primary merit was not his. More than that: in my experience of nigh thirty years, I have never met the anti-slavery man or woman who had struck any effectual blow at the slave system in this country, whose action was not born out of the head and conscience of William Lloyd Garrison. I recognize the same leading mind at the head of the anti-slavery struggle. In times past, none but his own modest lips ever dreamed of denying him that tide; in time to come, we shall need, find and welcome the same leader.”
This is just and magnanimous, and what I should have expected from Mr. Phillips, who is too noble to sanction the indelicate and ill-judged flattery of Mr. Conway, who has not yet learnt his own true position, and cannot correctly estimate that of others.
The Fraser article concludes by an appeal to those abolitionists of America, “who have remained faithful”-“the few,” I suppose, who did not support Mr. Lincoln. And this is the advice the writer gives:—
“Let them divest their noble cause of all suspicion of pride, in whatever patriotic watchword disguised, of all last of empire, by offering to the South their olive branch on the condition of simple JUSTICE, and invoke Christendom to their aid in securing its acceptance. Let them repair to their old altars, and offer all they have, even national empire and unity, if required, to the cause of humanity. Let them offer the South independence, whenever it is willing to concede independence to those whom it binds—without which there can be no peace, with or without the Union.”
I do not know what the readers of the Liberator will say to this renewal of the egregious blunder— the offer to disrupt the Union on condition that the South will concede freedom to its slaves. This may be Virginian diplomacy; but it looks like copperheadism and disloyalty. This time Mr. Conway does not make die offer direct to the South, in the name and assumed authority of the Abolitionists of the North. He will not repeat that folly. But it seems to me even more insulting to call upon the Abolitionists of the North to adopt such a policy of imbecility and stultification, not to say treason and rebellion. There is and can be no conflict between Union and Freedom; and no loyal American, no friend of Humanity and Liberty, could ever dream of acting upon the policy advocated by Mr. Conway.
I leave him now in the hands of your readers.
Believe me, ever truly yours,
THOMAS H. BARKER.
FAST DAY. The second Thursday in April (18th proximo) has been appointed by Gov. Andrew as the day for observance of the annual Fast.
<c03>
MASS. FIFTY-FIFTH REG, COL. VOLS.
Camp 55th Reg’t Mass. Vols.
CHARLESTON, S. C, March 15,1865.
In marching to Monk’s Corner, we were obliged to wade in water up to our waists in some places, and the mud a good portion of the route was over our ankles. We remained encamped at that place one day, and then marched to Strawberry Ferry, a distance of eight miles, when we encamped for this day. We found the land high and well-cultivated most all the way to that place. Fine plantations of hundreds of acres lined the road alt the way to it. The houses were built with some pretensions to taste, and were really quite handsome for this country, though at the North they would attract but little notice. Strawberry Ferry is quite a little village, and a very pretty one. It is situated on the Cooper River, from the banks of which quite an extensive view of the country round can be seen. The next morning, March 6th, we left Strawberry Ferry, and encamped that night at a place called Northampton. During the forenoon, we passed by some very fine plantations; and one of them, owned by a Dr. Early, we encamped on at noon for dinner. He fled upon hearing of our approach, leaving to our tender mercies everything he possessed. His slaves, however, were on hand, and gave us a warm and hearty greeting. In the afternoon, we took another direction, which carried us into the woods, and it was only occasionally that we came across a house. The walking was very muddy all the way. Northampton we found to consist of one large plantation, with a large number of negro women, and but few men. Some of the women were very desirous of having a dance, in which they were indulged. A fiddle was obtained, and they had quite a lively dance for an hour, much to their and our amusement. From Northampton we went to David’s Island, where we expected to find transportation to Charleston, but were disappointed. On our march there we passed by but few houses, and they were a long way apart. At one house that we passed, three or four colored women came out to see us go by, who were barefooted, and dressed in a rather fantastic costume. They were so delighted and astonished at seeing our men, that they fairly danced with joy, turning round and round, and jumping up and down, greatly to the amusement of the men, who lustily cheered them. ”Come along with us,” “Fall in the rear,” “You going to Charleston?” “Get your bundle,” and hundreds of other things our men said to the contrabands gazing at us in wonder and astonishment as we passed along through different plantations. Some, would rush back to their shanties, grab a bundle, and fall in the rear of us; others would follow with just what they had with them; and many said they would come with us if they were not so old, or had not children to take care of. The large majority of contrabands that we passed consisted almost entirely of old gray-haired men, and women and children. We found but few owners of plantations upon them; they were nearly all left in charge of overseers, some of whom fled upon our approach, while others remained. The plantations consisted of from five hundred to a thousand acres each; and we would sometimes find four or five owned by one man alone, and all in charge of their overseers. A large majority of the houses we saw were built of logs; and the country looked, with the exception of the roads, as if it had been settled but a few years, instead of a hundred and fifty. The country is densely wooded, and there were no signs of improvement any where, but, on the contrary, everything seemed to be going to decay.
One of our officers went up to the master’s house upon one large plantation, and ordered him to blow his horn, to summon the slaves from their work up to the house; which he did. After they were all assembled, the officer made a speech to them, informing them that they were free, and ordered them to assist him in carrying off forage from the place. That there was joy on that plantation, I need not tell you! Everything that the overseers and masters attempted to conceal, by hiding and burying in the ground, we quickly found with the assistance of the slaves. For information in regard to individuals and places, our officers invariably asked the slaves, and paid but little attention to what their owners or overseers might say.
From David’s Island we marched to a place called Calais, six miles from Charleston, and from thence were taken in transports to the city. We are now encamped four miles outside of the city, at a place Pickersville. Our camp is but a short distance from the Cooper River. Our Reg’t baggage has been sent for, and we are expecting its arrival every day. It looks now as if we shall remain encamped at this place some little time.

LETTER FROM MAJOR B. RUSH PLUMLY.
New ORLEANS, (La.) March 6, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator—Noticing a remark of Mr. Phillips, that “Gen. Banks may have instructed a few hundred of colored children,” it occurred to me that a brief account of the late celebration of the 22d of February, by the colored schools of this city, might be of interest to you.
It is known to you that these colored schools are under the “Board of Education for Freedmen,” Department of the Gulf, which Board is the result of an order of Major General Banks, issued March 22d, 1864.
The Board consists, at present, of Lt. E. M. Wheelock, formerly Pastor of the Unitarian Church, Dover, N. H., who is the Secretary, and myself as Chairman. I shall refrain from, speaking of the general operations of the Board, as its Report, for the nine months ending Dec. 31st, 1864, is in press, and will be sent to you.
If the final success of these schools is foreshadowed by the late exhibition, it will be signal indeed. The day was inauspicious from rain and mud. The Orleans Theatre, while commodious, was much too small to accommodate the applicants for admission; although, on that account, no notice to the public had been given. About three thousand colored children, pupils of the city schools, were admitted, and packed away in the building, with probably three hundred adults, white and colored. Six hundred children and a larger number of grown people were excluded by want of room. The little ones, thus unfortunate, were sadly disappointed, but turned away and went to their homes quietly; relying, with their usual trust, upon the promise of the Board, that they should have the “front seats” at the next exhibition.
There were present several distinguished visitors. All of these appeared to be impressed by the order and decorum of the thousands of children, and by the general neatness, and bright, intelligent looks of the pupils. It was a very pretty sight, indeed, to see the “Orleans Theatre” filled and monopolized by the proscribed people, hitherto refused admission, except into some obscure corner of the Thespian Temple.
The Programme, which I append, will acquaint you with the character of the exercises.
[This programme we published in the Liberator of the 17th inst]
After an impressive prayer by the Rev. Dr. Newman of the Methodist Episcopal Church, the exhibition proceeded. Purposely, a short time—less than a week—was allowed for preparation and rehearsal, as we designed to exhibit rather the native than the educated ability of the colored children.
The whole exhibition was really surprising. For myself, believer as I have long been in the ability and destiny of the black race, I was not prepared for so admirable a manifestation of capacity. Many gentlemen of competent learning and extensive observation, who were present, were emphatic in their praise of the performances of the children.
Governor Hahn was present, but unable to speak from hoarseness. It seemed to me a fitting occasion to refer to the propriety of such an exhibition by the colored children, upon the anniversary birth-day of the Father of his country—now in truth their country— who, beyond most men of his time, admitted the wrongs of the colored people, and expressed his hope

<c04>
for their freedom. The concluding song. “No slave beneath the Flag,” was sung with a will, that might have surprised the echoes of the Old Theatre into silence, seeing that so long they have been habituated to respond to the cheers of the oligarch and his slavery. After the benediction by the Rev. Dr. Newman, the audience dispersed.
I enclose notices from the public journals. That of the New Orleans Tribune, the imagined organ of the colored people, may surprise you, being mainly a snarl that the colored children are not educated in the white schools, as in Massachusetts. It must be borne in mind, that the Tribune is in no respect an organ of the people of color, but of a clique that, under the influence of Mr. Durant, is bitterly hostile to Gen. Banks, and would not, therefore, commend any measure or result that might, by implication, sustain that commander. Under such auspices, the Tribune is distinguished by little else than personal injustice and political Jesuitism.
I am told that a “notice” was prepared and accepted by the editor of the Independent, but when submitted to the “junto” controlling that paper, it was rejected upon the plea that it was too laudatory of the schools. I did not see, nor did I ever hear the “notice”; but, as it was written by a competent gentleman, himself an editor many years, I suppose it to have been fair; but its publication in the Independent might have been an indirect admission that General Banks had really done some good here, which that paper could not afford to acknowledge.
The Independent is a spasm, after death, of the late Era. The stock and materials of this paper are confiscated property. They are now in the hands of the Supervising Special Agent, B. F. Flanders, by whom, in conjunction with Mr. Durant, Mr. Honor, Mr. Graham, late U. S. Marshal, and many other defeated candidates for office, and displaced or apprehensive officials, the paper is feebly run, in hostility to the policy of Mr. Lincoln, opposttion to Gen. Banks, and hared of the Free State. Under such circumstances of opposition, defection, meanness and double-dealing, the real friends of the administration, of reconstruction, of colored suffrage, and of universal education, have to struggle. It is the old story. Revolutions hare common signs and common products. “Fifth-monarchy men” and “Mountain-men” clamor in the van and shriek in the rear of every political or moral army. They shield the enemy in front, and reveal the rear of the true host. It will be better by and by.
Very truly, B. RUSH PLUMLY.
FROM CHARLESTON.
The noted rebels of Charleston have left the city, having previously sent their valuables, silver and furniture, to Columbia, for safe keeping; but it was undoubtedly all destroyed and taken away when that town fell into the hands of Sherman’s brave boys. Some of that class, I am told, are in the Insane Hospital, both men and women; among them the Hon. Richard Yeadon. Most of the inhabitants remaining profess to be loyal and for the Union. But their idea of the Union is, as it was, not as the North have declared it to be. They are really ignorant of the great changes in the public sentiment of the North, and look amazed when told about it. Like Rip Van-Winkle, they rub their eyes with astonishment, and even stare like one waking from a dream, when told that Western Virginia voted unanimously for the constitutional amendment
Col. Woodford, of the 21st U. S. C T., and a member of Gen. Gilmore’s staff, is in command of the post. Previous to our arrival,—and I was the first to represent any of the Northern F. R. Association,- he had appointed Mr. James Redpath, correspondent of the New York Tribune, Superintendent of Public Instruction, and Mr. O’Donnell, of the Philadelphia Press, Assistant They were invested with power to take possession of school buildings and school property; also to confiscate all Confederate books. I was advised by General Saxton to co-operate with them, which I did, much to their satisfaction; for without the aid of Northern charity, they would have failed for the want of means to support them.
The school buildings of Charleston are equal to any of the North for their elegance, capacity, and fitted up with Boston furniture, and well lined with blackboards. We met every day for the purpose of consultation, and the examination of persons who desired to teach. About sixty presented themselves, and forty-two accepted for the time being. Mr. Pillsbury, of the Boston Society, was with us on the second day of our meeting, and we concluded to work together, and thus let both New York and Boston have an equal share in the good work of dispensing intellectual food to this new-born people. On Saturday, March the fourth, the children were called together in the Morris street Building, the largest in the city, the number present about 1200, of which 300 were white; thus we inaugurated on the same day that Abraham Lincoln took the oath of office as President of the United States for the second time, the first free school, free to all without distinction of color or race, in this city—the place from which was said four years ago, “We will not have that man to rule over us.” The exercises were opened with reading of the Scriptures, repeating the Lord’s Prayer, and a prayer for the President. Interesting and appropriate remarks were made by Mr. Redpath, O’Donnell, and others. During the present week our numbers have increased to 1500, and they occupy Morris street and Philip street buildings.
What a change for Charleston! How wonderful are the providences of God! “Man proposes, but God disposes.” Many interesting incidents might be related, but time forbids.
Yours in haste,
GEORGE NEWCOMB.
Charleston, S. C, March 9.
THE PEOPLE OF FREDERICKSBURG. A correspondent of the New York Journal of Commerce, who accompanied the recent tobacco expedition to Fredericksburg, thus speaks of the people and their feelings about the war:
“The people in the town were all women or old men and boys, and appeared to be very destitute. I saw many women dressed in clothes made of cotton duck tents. The men wore garments which looked like faded revolutionary relics. A few people were well-dressed, but most bore marks of deep poverty. All the men with whom I conversed were reconstructionists, and all the people seemed glad to see us, and hoped we would remain. One gentleman who came from Richmond the day before, who was said to be a man of wealth and influence, told us that he had good reason to believe that the war would end in four weeks by the submission of the rebel leaders. All were agreed that this campaign would finish up the Confederacy, the most bitter secessionists only claiming that the South had vindicated their pluck and their endurance.”
ITALICIZED. The course of the Louisville Journal, as committed heretofore to the “border States’ policy,” and opposed to “abolition,” is well known. But that paper has accepted the logic of events, and true to its first purpose not to allow a dismemberment of the republic, come what may to the peculiar institution, now wheels into the line of advocates of the Constitutional Amendment and Emancipation. With reference to a canvass now going on in Kentucky, the Journal emphatically says:—
“Now that the Southern Congress has voted to put two hundred thousand slaves in their army, and Mr. Hunter, the ablest rebel Senator, when voting for the measure under instructions from the Virginia Legislature, has declared that slavery and the Confederacy were ruined, let no man here be afraid to declare and to vote that the time has come to end forever the slavery agitation in this Government, and to accept, at the earliest possible moment, that new system of labor and industry to which we all know and admit we must come at last.”
EVERETT. The namesake of the departed orator says, in his article in the March Atlantic:
“Mr. Everett was anxious to educate the people, and all the prople. He did not believe it possible to educate any of them too well. And if you had asked him, the day he died, what had been the central idea of his life, he would have said if was the education of the people. His life was full of it His speeches were full of it Nothing so provoked him as any snobbism which wanted to hinder it. When he was president of the college—I think in 1848—there was a black boy in the high school at Cambridge, fitting for college. Some gentlemen in Alabama, who had sons there, or on their way, wrote to Mr. Everett to remonstrate against the boy’s entering. He replied, that the college was endowed to educate all comers; that if the black boy could pass his examination, as he hoped he could, he would be admitted; and that if, as they seemed to suppose, all the white students withdraw, the college would then be conducted on its endowments for the black boy alone. And that was no exceptional reply. It was his way of looking at such things.”
The slave pens in Louisville, Ky., like those of Baltimore, Washington and New Orleans, have been broken up. On the 4th instant, General Palmer ordered the release of all the slaves confined in Louisville.
<c05>
A WONDERFULL TABLE AND WORK BOX. President Lincoln and his wife are to be the recipients of a gift from the backwoods of Wisconsin, such as would grace any palace is Europe. A German, named Peter Glass, in the town of Scott, county of Sheboygen, has been engaged for the past nine months in making an octagonal centre-table for the President, and a workbox for the President’s wife. The centre-table consists of 20,000 pieces of wood, mostly of black walnut and white holly. Nothing can be more wonderful than the workmanship of this table. It has required a skill and a care that are absolutely marvellous. It is beautifully colored, being stained in the wood. Besides various devices in the form of flowers, birds, etc., it is ornamented with medallion portraits of Lincoln, Johnson, Grant, and Batter. These portraits are remarkably good, and, considering that they are made of colored wood, the skill and beauty of the general effect are as life-like as if on canvas.
A great deal has been said by the opposition in regard to the immense burden imposed upon the government by the support of freed slaves. How much truth there is in the complaint is shown by the annexed statement:—
“The Quartermaster General states that the views expressed in his report of 1862, in regard to the aid to be expected and derived from the colored population, have been confirmed by two years’ experience. These persons have been extensively employed in the labors of the Quartermaster General’s Bureau, where each one employed released a white soldier from labor, and restored him to his place in the line of battle. Their extensive enlistment has created a demand, however, beyond the supply; the application being made to the Quartermaster General for such labor with the armies before Richmond, which he was unable to provide, he endeavored to procure colored men from the department of the Atlantic and Gulf coast, where it was publicly reported that they were suffering for want of employment. None could be obtained from those departments, however. The commander of one of them reported that they were all wanted for labor necessary to the success of military operations, or for other public service, and that not a man, woman or child could be spared.”
The total Union loss is about 1800 in the affair at Fort Steadman on Saturday last. We have about 2800 rebel prisoners and about 100 deserters. The rebel loss will be from 1200 to 1500 killed and wounded, making a total loss of over 4000. We have 10 battle flags.
It was Lee’s intention to either make a dash on City Point, capture the stores, or what is more probable, to seize the pontoons across the Appomattox at Point of Rocks, dash across, attack our forces between the Appomattox and the James in the rear, thus dividing the army. It was an utter failure and a disaster to Lee—one of the severest defeats he has had for a long time.
At last advices, our forces had not only triumphantly entered Goldsboro’, but a column from Sherman’s army, after overpowering the only body of the enemy that stood in the way, had taken possession of Smithfield, which is twenty-two miles from Goldsboro’ and twenty-six from Raleigh. The latter place, therefore, bids fair to be outflanked by one of the various movements which Sherman, with a master’s hand, appears to be pushing forward, as has bean his wont throughout his march thus far.
FORTRESS MONROE, March 26. Gen. Sheridan, with his entire cavalry force, has reached Gen. Grant’s army in safety. One hundred and five captured rebel officers came down on the mail boat to-day.
During the retreat of the rebels after one of their repulses, last Friday, before Kinston, a singular incident occurred. A white flag was displayed by some of their troops, and our men, readily guessing the meaning of the signal, called out to the rebels to “come in.” The invitation met with a speedy response, and one hundred and forty of the disgusted chivalry came into our lines, and surrendered themselves as deserters.
An expedition has captured Sergeant Shadbourne, of Wade Hampton’s cavalry, one of the most noted guerrillas of the South, who has killed and robbed hundreds of our men. He made a desperate resistance, and offered his two captors three thousand dollars each to be released. His capture is considered of more account than all the rest that was done. Expeditions have been repeatedly sent out for the sole purpose of taking him, but in vain.
THE SLAUGHTER IN REBEL PRISONS. The New York Herald’s Army of the James correspondent learns from a rebel officer it is estimated that, during the past two years, 64,000 Union soldiers have died in rebel prisons: of these 8000 were buried at Andersonville, 12,000 at Danville, and 10,000 at Richmond!!!
A letter from Texas says the 2000 negroes captured at Berwick’s Bay were mostly taken to Houston, and sold at auction by Col. Syderer, he knowing they had been legally emancipated by the United States, and only liable to be treated as prisoners of war.
The famous Seminole Chief Osceola was buried in Fort Moultrie, Charleston harbor. A press correspondent, who recently visited the place, writes. “Inside of Fort Moultrie is Osceola’s grave, a plain slab of marble with an iron-rail fence. Everything round it had been knocked to pieces by our shells, but not one had touched it, or even clipped the flowers around his grave. The inscription on it was this: ‘To the memory of Osceola, Indian Chieftain, died in Fort Moultrie, 1838.’”
The rebel General W. H. C. Whiting, who died at Governor’s Island, New York harbor, a few days since, was about 40 years of age, and was considered, next to Beauregard, the ablest engineer in the rebel service. He was a Mississippian by birth.
EXECUTION OF “SUE MONDAY.” The notorious guerilla murderer, Sue Monday, alias Jerome Clark, was hanged at Louisville, Ky., on Friday afternoon. Like the Chesapeake and Lake Erie pirates and murderers, he claimed to have a commission from Jeff. Davis, and protested against his sentence. But the impudent plea did not save him.
ARMING OF SLAVES BY THE REBELS BEGUN. Richmond papers show that the effort to raise negro regiments was going on in earnest. An official order has been issued, and a rendezvous for their reception established. All received are mustered for the war. Lee has written a letter urging on the work, saying that he is anxious to witness their first experience in fighting for the rebel cause.
The district of Georgetown, S. C., now occupied by Admiral Dahlgren, is the richest rice-growing section of the Union, and must have been of great importance to the rebels. It was also one of the heaviest slave districts, only 2894 of its people having been whites in 1860, while 17,253 were slaves.
The expenditures to be provided for by the financial committee of the Massachusetts Legislature are $2,500,000 for State aid; $1,00,000 for the militia; $1,000,000 for interest and premium on gold; $75,000 for a sinking fund, &c.
There are about 5,000 colored troops in and around Savannah. The city is very quiet.
FIRE AT PORT AU PRINCE. An arrival from Port au Prince brings details of the great conflagration at that place. It appears that on the 28th of February, at the close of the carnival, the scenery in the theatre took fire, destroying the building, and the flames communicated to the adjoining houses, spreading from one to another until 400 buildings were laid in ashes, involving a loss amounting to from forty to fifty million Haytien dollars. The most business part of the city is destroyed.
The Nashville and Louisville papers are filled with accounts of the recent freshets in the Tennessee and tributary streams. Nashville was at one time nearly surrounded by water and 200 houses rendered untenable.
The concluding lecture of the Lyceum course was delivered by Wm. Lloyd Garrison, on Monday evening last, in the Congregational Church. It was in the same church that Mr. Garrison was first permitted to raise his voice in behalf of the slave—after being denied a hearing in his native town of New bury port— and it must have awakened emotions of gratitude in the heart of this early champion of the rights of man, that after thirty-five years of persistent and devoted labor, he could stand up and review the history of the anti-slavery enterprise, and announce the work as accomplished.-Amesbury Villager.
EX-GOV. AIKEN, one of the largest slaveholders in the South, remained in Charleston after the evacuation by the rebel forces. He was a member of Congress when Banks was elected Speaker, and the latter’s competitor for the chair, but acted honorably and nobly on the occasion, and promptly conducted his successful rival to his seat. A letter from Charleston in the Washington Republican says, ex-Gov. Aiken has reported the names of all his slaves, seven hundred and fifty in number, to the Commandant of the post, and given each family a farm on one of the most fertile and productive islands on the coast, and placed them on it; and all are well started in life.
Mrs. J. D. Wood, the actress, who was lately badly burned at the Buffalo Theatre, while trying to save a little girl from destruction, died last Saturday.
At the beginning of the winter, sixty-seven negro soldiers were confined at Danville. At the close of four mouths, only seven were living to be exchanged.
Rev. William C. Dana, one of the most violent and unreasonable secessionists of Charleston, is a native of Newburyport.
<c06>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will address the citizens of Milford, (Mass,) in all of the Freedman’s cause, on Sunday evening next, at half-past 7 o’ clock,
DIED—In Randolph, Vt., March 2, at the residence of his grandfather, Enoch Hebard, Esq., ARTHUR H. FLINT, son of J. M. and Lavinia H. Flint, aged 15 years and 10 months, of San Prairie, Wis.
His rare integrity of character, combined with a high order of intellectual endowments, gave promise of a life of great usefulness. His grandfather (Mr. Hebard) has been a patron of the Liberator ever since its establishment, and a firm and consistent friend of universal freedom; adorning his profession by a life so well ordered that his children, with gladness, and understandingly, shared his views, giving means, labor and influence to the support of their belief in the dark days of unpopularity and proscription; and this grandson inherited in large measure a sense of truth and justice, which made him a joyful hope to his friends—blasted thus early by his untimely death.—Com.

THE TRIBUNE FOR 1865.
PROSPECTUS.
THE military and naval successes of 1864, with the suspicious result of our Presidential contest, have lifted a heavy weight from the breast of the Loyal Millions of our countrymen. It is now felt, even by those who have been distrustful and faint-hearted, that the Union is to emerge triumphant from the deadly strife whereinto she was so wickedly precipitated by her assailants, and that Slavery, her relentless foe, is to encounter the fate of <illegible> The perils of foreign intervention and of Western insurrection are safely passed: ABRAHAM LINCOLN, no longer assailable as the choice of a minority, holds the helm of State for four years longer; the Rebellion, palpably weakened by its defeats and losses by the year now closing—with its credit so reduced that its purse-bearer officially declares that its Treasury Notes can be exchanged for corn at the rate of twenty-five only for one, while its bonds command only six cents for one dollar—but awaits the blow which shall soon strike the sword from its parricidal hand, and remit its master spirits to the justice, or it may be to the clemency, of a sorely wronged and justly incensed, but forbearing and magnanimous people. Such are the auspices which justify our faith that the year soon to open will see the Stars and Stripes float unchallenged from every battlement in the Republic; and the perfect law of Liberty for ALL immovably imbedded in the Constitution of our Union.
THE NEW YORK TRIBUNE, founded in 1841, will enter upon its twenty-fourth year with quickened hopes and enlarged means of usefulness. Its principles need no restatement; its aims are the diffusion of Intelligence, and the inculcation of a spirit of Freedom and Humanity. When this truth shall have been generally recognized and established as the basis of our institutions and polity, that injustice to the poorest, the weakest, the most despised, is a fearful mistake—that no community or State can afford to wrong even its humblest member—then will our land bask once more in the clear sunshine of peace and prosperity.
THE TRIBUNE has for the last year been published with but small profit to its proprietors, when compared with the enormous labor and outlay devoted to its publication, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other materials at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our weekly edition the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars; while our large receipts for advertising have been absorbed by the extraordinary expenses for Correspondence Telegraphing, &c., devolved on us by the War. As we do not suppose our patrons desire that we should work for them at our own cost, and prefer not to be patronized by any who may desire it, we have somewhat advanced for the ensuing year the prices of our Semi-Weekly and Weekly, as we have already done with those of our daily edition. This increase is purely nominal; there never before was a time when the farmers of our country could buy THE TRIBUNE for so little of their own products or labor as they can by the following
TERMS:
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Daily, single copy, 4 cents.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year—311 numbers, $10 00
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year—104 numbers, 4 00
Mail subscribers, 2 copies, 1 year. 104 numbers, 7 00
do 5 copies, or over, for each copy, 3 00
Persons remitting for 10 copies, $30, will receive an extra copy for 6 months.
Persons remitting for 15 copies, $45, will receive an extra copy
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, single copy, 1 year—52 numbers, 2 50
Mail subscribers, Clubs of five, 10 00
Persons remitting $20 for 10 copies, will receive 1 copy extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $40 for 20 copies, will receive 1 copy Semi-Weekly extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $80 for 40 copies, will receive one copy daily, gratis.
Drafts on New York, or Post Office orders, payable to the order of “THE TRIBUNE,” being safer, are preferable to any other mode of remittance. But where drafts cannot be conveniently procured, United States or National Bank bills are the next best, and may be sent by mail; but in case of loss, THE TRIBUNE will not be responsible, unless furnished with a full description of the bills, including the name of the bank, denomination and number and the time and place of mailing the letter with the enclosure. Address THE TRIBUNE, New York.
LIGHT GYMNASTICS.
MRS. L. M. PATTERSON’S class in Light Gymnastics meets every Wednesday evening, at half-past 7 o’ clock, at No. 3 Tremont Row, Room 30. As health agencies, these exercises are invaluable. Mrs. P. is a graduate of Dr. Lewis’s Normal Institute.
March 31. if
Farm for Sale Frankln, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and pasture, including eight acres of wood-land. Also, house, barn, and carriage-house, all in excellent order, built some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, bath, &c. Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.
March 31.if
CLEANSE THE BLOOD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and good for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure. AYER’S SARSAPARILLA purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Serofula, or King’s Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony’s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Sealt Head, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Diseases, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases. Try AYER’S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound “Sarsaparilla,” and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer them the best alterative which we know how to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER’S CHERRY PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to recount the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
March 15. 2m.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW.,
    No. 6 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry
THE ETERNAL GOODNESS,
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
O friends, with whom my feet have trod
The quiet aisles of prayer,
Glad witness to your zeal for God
And love of men I bear.
I trace your lines of argument;
Your logic, linked and strong,
I weigh as one who dreads dissent,
And fears a doubt as wrong.
But still my human hands are weak
To hold your iron creeds;
Against the words ye bid me speak,
My heart within me pleads.
Who fathoms the Eternal Thought?
Who talks of scheme and plan?
The Lord is God! He needeth not 
The poor device of man.
I walk with bare, hushed feet the ground
Ye tread with boldness shod;
I dare not fix with mete and bound
The love and power of God.
Ye praise His justice; even such
His pitying love I deem;
Ye seek a king; I fain would touch
The robe that hath no seam.
Ye see the curse which overbroods
A world of pain and loss;
I hear our Lord’s beatitudes
And prayer upon the cross.
More than your schoolmen teach, within 
Myself, alas! I know:
Too dark ye cannot paint the sin,
Too small the merit show.
I bow my forehead to the dust, 
I veil mine eyes for shame, 
And urge, in trembling self-distrust, 
A prayer without a claim.
I see the wrong that round me lies, 
I feel the guilt within;
I hear, with groan and travail-cries,
The world confess its sin:
Yet, in the maddening maze of things,
And tossed by storm and flood,
To one fixed stake my spirit clings:
I know that God is good!
Not mine to look when cherubim
And seraphs may not see,
But nothing can be good in Him
Which evil is in me.
The wrong that pains my soul below,
I dare not throne above:
I know not of His hate—I know
His goodness and His love!
I dimly guess from blessings known
Of greater out of sight,
And, with the chastened Psalmist, own
His judgments too are right.
I long for household voices gone,
For vanished smiles I long;
But God hath led my dear ones on,
And He can do no wrong.
I know not what the future hath
Of marvel or surprise,
Assured alone that life and death
His mercy underlies.
And if my heart and flesh are weak
To bear an untried pain,
The bruised reed He will not break,
But strengthen and sustain.
No offering of my own I have,
Nor works my faith to prove;
I can but give the gifts He gave,
And plead His love for love.
And so beside the Silent Sea
I wait the muffled oar;
No harm from Him can come to me
On ocean or on shore.
I know not where His islands lift
Their fronded palms in air;
I only know I cannot drift
Beyond His love and care.
O brothers! If my faith is vain,
If hopes like these betray,
Pray for me that my feet may gain
The sure and safer way!
And Thou, O Lord! By whom are seen
Thy creatures as they be,
Forgive me if too close I lean
My human heart on Thee!
–N. Y. Independent.

TO THE EARNEST THINKERS.
If the mist of failure, gray,
Cloud the breaking of the day,
For whose coming all the waiting millions pray-
If misgivings dull and rust
The first brightness of their trust–
Let the earnest thinkers open up the way.
Show each brave, impatient soul
How the waves of failure roll
Back from brows that sternly front the waiting goal;
How the single-handed right,
In its God-anointed might,
Dares to meet and conquer Evil’s legioned whole.
Show them how a brief defeat
Hath its uses pure and sweet–
How it fires the brain, the soul, with newer heat;
Failure’s lowest depths we sound,
Then, with terrible rebound,
Up the heights of triumph go our conquering feet!
Show them how the Truth is strong
When it battles with the Wrong,
Though the coward quail before the struggle long;
How the soldier of the Right
Dares the fierce, unequal fight,
Leaping fearless into Treason’s armed throng!
Earnest thinkers of the day!
It is yours to clear the way,
While our soldiers fight, our women work and pray.
Send your stirring words abroad 
For the Right–for Truth–for God!
With the prophet’s fiery spirit seal your say!

ODE.
God of our holy cause,
Triumphant in thy laws
Ear may we be;
Laws which our fathers sealed
Thy priceless gift to shield,
Ne’er to the foe to yield
Our Liberty.
Lo! from thy throne on high,
Hear now the Nation’s cry,
Trusting in Thee:
Wide o’er our crimsoned land
Stretch forth thy powerful hand,
Lead all by thy command,
God of the free!
Bid War’s dread tumults cease,
Send now the Star of Peace
To illume our night;
Roll back Rebellion’s wave,
Grant freedom to the slave;
Home, friends and country save,
God of our might!
Advocate, Friend, and King,
Thy ruling sceptre bring,
“And in thy sight”
Let all usurpers own
That “Thou art God alone,”
Sovereign of every throne,
Ruler of right,
—New Bedford Republican Standard.
<c02>
The Liberator.
The Laws of the Commonwealth–Shall they be Enforced?
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
BEFORE
The Legislative Committee,
FEBRUARY 28, 1865.
[Phonographically reported by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.]
GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITTEE—The question you have to consider at this time grows out of the question of Temperance—the interference with the sale—the public sale—of intoxicating drinks. It is not a new question. What we call the Temperance cause, in this Commonwealth, is half a century old; and, on the other side of the water, if you analyze strictly the legislation of the old countries, the attempt to limit and prohibit, to a certain extent, in the cause of public protection, the free use and sale of intoxicating liquor, is many centuries old. The new point in the discussion is, that any man should assume that a government trespasses on the rights of individuals when it attempts, at last, to legislate on this subject. I think I may safely say, that there is no statute-book in the world, no matter how old its first page is,—no statute-book since the discovery of alcohol,–which has not in it a law in regard to this subject; and, if you go behind the Christian era, and into the legislation of the older countries, the same attempt is visible, I think, there. We are not, therefore, trying to gain or clutch any new ground; we are only examining the method by which an old and constantly acknowledged power shall be used.
Again, some men say the Temperance cause is a very narrow, petty, sentimental enterprise, fit for half-witted men, weak-minded women, theorists, but utterly repudiated by the manly and practical intellect and common sense of the public. On the contrary, to my mind, the Temperance cause is one of the weightiest, broadest, most momentous, that a citizen, under democratic institutions, can contemplate—especially under democratic institutions here, and leading a race like ours. Every race, every blood, every climate, has its own special temptation. The tropics have one, the colder climates have another. Some races are distinguished from others by peculiar temptation and weakness. Our climate, our blood, is peculiarly open to the necessity of material stimulus, something that shall wake up and hurry the currents of the blood. The old idea of heaven, to the fathers of our race, was a drunken revel, overflowing mead, and every intoxicating means. The race craves naturally, and still more incidentally,-from the fast life, from the incessant activity, from the hurried and excited nature which modern life gives us,—these stimulants, from some special need of the body itself. That is our temptation. Again, science, in modern times, has elaborated the processes of manufacturing intoxicating liquor to such a cheap and lavish extent, that a man with one hour’s work may be drunk a day; with one half-day’s toil may spread his drunkenness over a week. And yet, with this blood, and with science holding out this temptation, and wages holding out these means, and the heavy working of republican institutions resting on the basis of the people themselves, with no breakwater of bayonet or of despotism—the sense, virtue, purpose of the masses the pedestal upon which the great, heavy machine of government must be built—with these yawning gulfs on each side our national progress, there are men who set their faces against the Temperance agitation, and bid us beware of taking up too much time with the narrow and petty interest which we assume to champion. A drunken people were never the safe depositories of the power of self-government. Hurried on, the mere victims of demagogues, uncontrollable passion their temptation and their guide, who can safely trust his future, and the institutions secured by such toil and such blood, to a race making or groping its way amid such evils and such weakness? I contend that every man who desires the security of democratic institutions is to see to it, first of all, that every possible means be exhausted to secure, so far as human means can, a sober people. To my mind, that is the significance of the Temperance enterprise. I know its other phases, alluded to by my friend [Rev. A. A. Miner] who has just stood here—the domestic desolation, the individual ruin, the spiritual, wreck, the pecuniary loss, the family destruction. I know all that; and, to the right mind, there lies the real strength of the Temperance agitation. But if any man is of too low a level, too sordid a logic, to appreciate or acknowledge that argument; at least citizenship and patriotism, at least selfishness, may be brought, for one moment, to reflect, when the very ground around him rests secure only so long as the statute book is upborne, and the rights of life and property secured, by a sober people.
The question which we meet to discuss to-night is one of this nature,—whether this great principle is to have a fair trial? Mark me! That is my text: whether this great principle is to have, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, a fair trial? That is all we ask. Boston is a part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The law that prevails in Boston is made in yonder State House, and recorded in the statute book of the Commonwealth. The question to be asked, in regard to such law, is, whether the public opinion of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts demands it? If that opinion does, then Boston has one duty, and but one,—to obey it! Is there anything undemocratic in that? Is there any breach of municipal or individual liberty in that? Has Boston seceded from Berkshire? I contend that Boston is a part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and bound to obey its law. Now, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, after thirty years of discussion, after the most exhaustive debate, after statistics piled mountain high on both sides, after every other method has been tried, and failed, has decided that what is called the Maine Liquor Law shall be the law of the Commonwealth. That is not sentiment,—that is a fact. If you doubt it, go to the Secretary of State’s office, and get a certified copy. That is an indisputable fact, that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has deliberately chosen that method of carrying out her temperance purpose. Does any man say it is not a good method? My friend, that is not admissible. We have floated beyond that level of argument. The liquor dealers say it is not a good method. You are out of order! Sit down! You do not belong to this stage of discussion! Mark you! We have funded thirty years of labor in that statute which the Governor has signed, and the Secretary of State has sealed. When it was first enacted, the liquor dealers of the State didn’t like it. They went to the Legislature, but the Legislature stood unmoved. Having failed there, they went to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, after thorough investigation, said, “It is law!” How far, then, have the temperance people travelled? Let us stop, and take an inventory. We have got a law on the statute-book. We have got a reiterated decision of the Legislature, that that is their sober, second purpose. We have got, further, the decision of the Supreme Court that it is constitutional. So far we have got. Now, what comes next? The various elements that go to make up the State are to obey it, are they not? Here is our claim: if you do not like it, go back into the arena, and agitate against it. Get up your tracts, your circulars, your lectures, your public conventions, and assail the Gibraltar of the Legislature; and when you have carried it, we will sit down, and put our hands on our lips. There is where we demand that the liquor interest shall meet us,—in the convention, in the lecture-room, anywhere,—to agitate against the law. We are ready to meet them. We went through thirty years of such agitation. We tried license, we tried the fifteen gallon law,—every method, and we failed. Let me turn aside to say one word here. The Chief of Police said, in 1868, that he thought it would be a
<c03>
good thing to have a license system. Well, our argument is, “Gentlemen, we tried it for two hundred years, and it failed. Do let us try this fifty years. Is that an unfair demand?”
From the method in which gentlemen address us, one would suppose that there never was a State that a tried licensing; that it was a new thought, just struck out from some happy intellect, elevated by a glass of champagne (laughter and applause); whereas, license is as old as Plymouth Rock. The Commonwealth began with it, and they came up to the year 1855; and every philanthropist, every lover of his country and his city, was apale and aghast at the gigantic strides which this vice was making,—at the tremendous yawning gulf in which all public virtue seemed about to be swallowed up. Pulpit, forum, legislature, counting-house,—every walk of life, public and private, was rotten to the very core. Now, therefore, what we have gained is a law reiterated. We have got the Court and the Legislature on our side. What farther do we ask? Well, in the various counties of the State, more or less direct and honest effort has been made to carry out the law. We do not stop to say how honest nor how direct; that is not our business to-night. Our business is with the fact, that in this city no effort has ever been made to carry it out. And in saying that, I am not throwing any particular blame on any individual officer. The Mayor and the Aldermen are as good as the average; our police agents and subordinates are not open to exception. It is not the machine, but it is the creator of the machine, with whom we quarrel. It is not the Police nor the Mayor, but it is the elements that make both. The reasons why no effort has been made are plain enough on the very surface of affairs. They were alluded to by my friend [Rev. Mr. Miner] just now. Nineteen hundred and fifty-one places in this city where, illegally, liquor is sold, in open defiance of the law; eight or ten millions of dollars on this peninsula invested in the manufacture and sale of liquor; two or three million dollars’ worth sold and consumed annually in the city itself. Every man familiar with the machinery of democratic institutions knows, that two thousand men, with ten millions of dollars behind them, commanding from three to seven thousand votes, as they readily may, can hold the balance in any election, and make it beyond question that no candidate can even be ventured by either party, who is not pledged, publicly or privately, not to execute this law of the State. Every man knows that that power, thus massed up, can control the municipal government of the city of Boston. But we are not now finding fault with that state of things. We only say, that in consequence of that, or something else, the city of Boston says to us, by the voice of her Attorneys, her Aldermen, her Mayor, “We cannot execute your law.” We take her at her word. Year after year she comes to the Legislature, and says, “We cannot execute your law.” Well, there are two paths open. One path is, Repeal the law; the other path is, Try somebody else to execute it. Suppose the engineer of the Fitchburg road should report to the directors, “I can’t run your engine beyond Groton.” Two courses would be open for the directors. One would be to take up the rails west of Groton; the other, to get a new engineer. Which do you suppose they would adopt? (Applause.) The city of Boston says to the Commonwealth,—a Commonwealth that, after thirty years of discussion, after two hundred years of patient experiment, announces a new plan, a plan successful to a marvellous extent elsewhere,—the city of Boston says, “We cannot execute your law.” We take her at her word, and we proceed to do—what? Why, to go back to the armory of democratic weapons, to find whether Democracy has any other means of carrying out a law.
Now, mark you! what is a city? It is a body of inhabitants, selected from the rest of the State, which assembles together and goes to the Legislature, and says, “Grant us a city government.” Why do they want it? They say: “We have large masses of criminal inhabitants, large massed-up quantities of wealth;-we need a more stringent machinery than a country town.” The State says, “Yes, take that city charter, and with it take certain conditions and privileges and rights peculiar to a city.” Now, the tendency of the last hundred years has been to what you may call no government; that is, toward making the government light as possible; filing down all its powers, restricting all its old despotic qualities. That is the tendency of our day. You see it everywhere. We give to wards, to towns, and small districts, unlimited control of their own affairs. In the well-educated, sparsely-populated, comparatively poor districts of Massachusetts, it succeeds. Education and virtue supply the place of force and compulsion. We have tried the same policy with the city. We have given to it the exclusive execution of the State laws. It was not so forty years ago. The city was then a town in the county of Suffolk. The State sent its own sheriff and its own deputy sheriffs, appointed by itself, not by vote, to execute its laws. You know the city has two codes,—its own by-laws and also the laws of the State. Its own by-laws were always executed by itself. Half a century ago, the State laws were executed by State officials. We have gradually tended toward giving to the city the whole control of the State laws, also; and to-day,-a fact, probably, of which not one in ten in this audience is aware,-the police of Boston are engaged three-quarters of their time, and more, in the execution, not of city laws, but of State laws,-of laws which, half a century ago, would have largely been in the hands of the sheriff and his deputies, appointed by the State. We have gone thus far.
Now, like all other grants, the State may resume this. The reason why she should resume it is, because the city goes to the State House, year by year, and says: “We cannot execute your laws.” If you incorporate a company to build a railroad, after the assigned time if the road is not finished, the State resumes the franchise; so of a bridge, a factory, or anything; after the lapse of the assigned time, if unfinished, the State resumes the franchise. The State granted to the city of Boston the right to execute her laws: they are not executed, and the city proclaims, by the lips of her own officers, that she cannot execute them. Therefore the temperance men—who have funded thirty years of work in that statute, and who claim of the community this, that, at least, the plan shall have a trial—as I said at the beginning, a trial and nothing more—ask that some other means be substituted. Suppose this plan is tried twenty years, and fails; we will give it up. Suppose you try it, and it does not work even the miracles that we hope; we will surrender it. But long argument, patient debate, constant experiment, have lifted it into the statute-book; and now, certainly, we may rightfully claim that the State shall provide the machinery to try it before it is taken off of that statute-book. Is there anything hard, anything unfair, anything undemocratic in that claim?
But the city says, “You cannot execute a law which has not public opinion behind it.” Granted. I have no wish to execute a law which has not public opinion behind it. I have no wish to execute a law that has not a preponderating public opinion behind it. But the opinion of what public? Is it the opinion of the City Hall? Is it the opinion of the grog-shops of Boston? Is it the opinion of Beacon Street and the clubs? Is it the opinion of Ann Street and North Street? Is it the opinion of the criminals in the dock? No; the law rests on the public opinion of the Commonwealth; and, if the liquor interests of Boston wish to appear before that tribunal, we are ready—always ready. We welcome them to that great debate. All we claim is, that when they are beaten in that court, they shall submit (Applause.) Is that too much to ask? If they conquer us, we will submit. But we have not been at boys’ play for thirty years. We have converted the Commonwealth; it has accepted this idea, and made it into a statute; and, If there be a law in Massachusetts, we mean it shall have a fair trial. (Applause.)
How is it to be done? We have got a Court; we have got a Legislature; what we want is an Executive. Now, friends, before I begin to speak on that
<c04>
point, let me say one thing. If the Metropolitan Police does not succeed, we shall ask something more. You need not think you will get rid of us with that. This is our solemn conviction of duty. We have converted the public opinion of the Commonwealth; we mean now to exhaust Yankee ingenuity in the invention of machinery to execute that law; and, when universal Yankeedom confesses that it is bankrupt, we will give up, and not until then. (Applause.) If the Metropolitan Police is not enough, then we will devise something stronger and better, before we sit down and say that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, in General Court assembled, does not rule this Commonwealth, but that the liquor dealers of Boston do,-for that is the issue. The question is, where is the law to be made? In the gilded saloons of Boston, or is the State House on yonder hill? If the million of people who inhabit this Commonwealth make the law, this is law, and Boston has no right to complain— having abdicated by her own confession—that we go now to the State, and claim other and better machinery to carry it out.
One other point. You must not expect that this law will convert the whole Commonwealth in a moment. Look at the history of all law. The time was, six or eight centuries ago, when it was a disputed point whether a man owned a separate lot of land. That was settled by public opinion. Then remained a second question; whether, owning it at his death, he could bequeath it. Public opinion nibbled at that question for a hundred years, and then settled it. Doubtless, when the first statute-book to that extent was enrolled among the parchments, many men relucted; but it gradually settled down from the food into the blood, from the blood into the bones, from the bones into the character of the Saxon race; and, today, every drop of Anglo-Saxon blood acknowledges the sacredness of property derived from a hundred ancestors. Law, once placed on the statute-book, educates the moral sense of the community. Many a man has no higher level than the statute-book. What is legal he respects. If he trespasses against it, he feels himself a sinner. What is illegal he shrinks from. Now, this law, if you leave it on the statute-book, is to be the most powerful moral suasion that was ever employed to the conviction of the universal conscience of the Commonwealth. Leave it there a century, let it rest on the public opinion of the Commonwealth, and a man will walk these streets as much ashamed of being descended from an illegal liquor dealer as from an African slave-trader. (Applause.) Ty-day, you regard that statement as fanaticism; but you forget, that the masses of mankind may get their ethics, in the first instance, from the statute-book, and only secondly from the Bible; so that, if you will only let this statute stand, we shall have, not merely public opinion, but public virtue, to sanction it, all over the Commonwealth.
But you say to me, it is a single statute. It is not this single statute alone. The liquor dealers of the city of Boston permit (that is the proper word) the execution of the State laws only so far as they not interfere with their interest. Take the Sunday law. If there be anything anchored in the very superstition, as well as in the religious principles of Massachusetts, it is the sacredness of the seventh day; and yet that law, two centuries old,-perhaps the most largely supported by public opinion of anything this side the law of murder,—is not executed on this peninsula, and never will be, when it comes in conflict with the interests of the liquor-dealers of the streets. You talk to me about this statute not being capable of execution. There is no statute capable of execution, which comes athwart the selfishness of the liquor trade of the city. Gambling is illegal; the brothel is illegal. They could neither of them be sustained without that substratum and corner-stone, the 1,950 open places for the sale of intoxicating drinks; and do you suppose that either of those laws, held superstitiously, conventionally, religiously sacred as they are in the heart of every Massachusetts man, is executed, or can be executed to-day, when the liquor dealers of this city to a certain extent cover these places with the shelter of their common interest? No; I am not standing here to-night to plead merely that the Maine Liquor Law cannot be executed; I am saying that ten millions of dollars, standing behind what are in fact the criminal classes of the city (and I use the word “criminal” in its broad, legal sense—everything which evades the laws—by-laws, State laws, all laws,)—I say ten millions of dollars, two thousand places for the sale of drink, standing behind the criminal classes, sustaining them, massing them together by the attraction of a common interest, always have, always will, always. must, control the municipal government of the peninsular. If you want any law executed faithfully, efficiently, it must be done by the old democratic authority—the sovereignty of the State. Why does the city ask for peculiar privileges for her police? You meet a policeman in the street, and he has powers over you a hundred fold greater than the constable of a country town. Why does the city want it? Because she acknowledges that the government wages an unequal war with the criminal classes. Remember, that in ten years, forty-five men out of every hundred on this peninsula are arrested for crime. Forty-five men out of every hundred—nearly one-half of the population of the peninsula—in ten years pass through the station-house or jail. Now go with me to Berkshire; less than two men out of a hundred are subject to the same imprisonment in that county. Do you suppose that a country like this can rule itself with the same facility and earnestness that Berkshire does? Of course not. The criminal classes, banded together, rich, massed up, are too strong for democratic institutions. I avow my belief, derived from the experience of San Francisco, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Baltimore, New York, Philadelphia, Boston, that it will be found, in the next hundred years, that great cities cannot be ruled by municipal governments based on democratic foundations. The votes of the streets cannot execute the laws. You may be astonished, indignant, incredulous; but the history of all great cities proves it. San Francisco flung herself out of a government into the hands of private citizens to save herself from anarchy. Baltimore did the same. New Orleans did the same. New York, wise by experience, saved herself from the same lot by going to Albany, and invoking the shelter of the State. London, the capital of the civilized world, in the time of Sir Robert Peel, found herself unable to deal with the criminal classes of the city, and she invoked the aid of Parliament and the whole realm to govern her territory. Boston has grown, within ten years, so much into the resemblance of a crowded capital, that the same result is reached here. Why, ladies and gentlemen, we relieve every year the poverty of 50,000 persons on this peninsula—40,000 of them, according to the testimony-of Benevolent Societies and the Overseers of the Poor, reduced to claim our assistance by the habits of intoxication of the head of the family. Forty thousand persons kneel to your overseers of the Poor every year, in person or by representatives. What makes them? The drinking saloons of the city. And to us, who pay that taxation, those drinking saloons say, “You shall not execute that plan which the wisdom of the State has devised to prevent the evil,” Every year, 25,000 persons are arrested for crime; nine-tenths caused by drunkenness; increasing every year. You spent $700,000 on this peninsula the last twelve months to educate 25,000 children—to lift them to morals, intelligence, and virtue. All the time, two thousand drinking places are open, and they drag down 30,000 inhabitants,—adults, the grown-up perfect, developed fruit of your schools—drag them down to the pit. You might as well take that $700,000 spent for schools, and fling it over the end of Long Wharf, when with one hand you build, and with the other tear down your building.
These are the serious considerations. Every man who knows his fellows well enough to judge on this question, knows that streets, planted with every fifteenth house a place for the public sale of drink, are not safe streets for a weak man to walk in. Every
<c05>
man of you knows that the mother in the country follows her son into this city with trembling prayers, not knowing whether the virtue she has carefully watched and nurtured will stand the temptation of Boston streets,–the great cancer of the Commonwealth, the source of daily and hourly corruption; and this is the man which the State has devised to stop the otherwise immedicable wound.
Now, what do we claim? We have got the Legislature by argument, the Court by enactments. We are ready to meet our opponents any time to reverse the verdict; but, until it is reversed, we claim police officer and jury to carry out the law. If that machinery succeeds, well. If it does not succeed, something more shall be devised; all the while holding ourselves open to be answered, to be disputed, to be gainsaid, before that great tribunal, the public. I wish I could impress on every man’s mind, to-night, this one thing. The temperance body ask nothing of the liquor dealer, nothing of the city, nothing of the State, which it has not already granted in essence. We are not on trial; we have gained the battle; we only ask to reap the fruits. If anybody disputes us, if anybody says the Maine Liquor Law is not good, that a license system would be better, we are willing to go with him into the argument; but that is argument. We demand now, that, having got the statute, we have a trial. I challenge the press of the city, the journals of the liquor dealers, to answer that claim—a trial of the statute we have richly earned.
Some say that this law cannot be executed. No law is perfectly executed. Our jails and houses of correction are the evidence that no law is thoroughly executed. But what we claim is, that, with fair materials, this law may be as well executed as any law as young as it. Evidence is ready at hand that, in the large cities in Maine, where there was as much wealth in proportion to numbers as here, four-fifths of the drinking was killed by the execution of the Maine Liquor Law; and I challenge the history of all legislation to show that any other law, one year old on the statute-book, was ever able to kill four-fifths of the evil against which it was directed. I claim as much, if not more, for the Maine Liquor Law, as any law has ever achieved. When thoroughly executed, it killed four-fifths of the sin which it attached. You know well that the stranger in the streets of New York, if he is disposed to indulge in the vices that are hidden, must seek out counsel and assistance in order to enable himself to indulge. The man who has any purpose stands firm against the temptation; but many a man, who has no purpose, is unable to sin from lack of opportunity. But when you open every fifteenth door in the streets, it must be a Hercules who is able to stand against that temptation. Shut up these tempting entrances, and seven out of ten who enter the city for the purpose of getting a livelihood are saved from temptation. Hide it from the investigation of the law, compel it to retreat into privacy cellars, and a man must seek it, seek it with advice, seek it with assistance, before he can fall through that sieve of deficient opportunity into shameful indulgence. There will be only a tenth or a fifth who will contrive the way to pass. Every man acquainted with the history of the city indulgence, in this and similar crimes, knows well this principle. Hide the sale of liquors, and we save our sons and brothers. Execute this law, and the streets of Boston, if not entirely clean, are yet as safe as a country town. The mother can trust her boy, the wife her husband, the brother his brother, in these streets of the capital, for education, for trade, for pleasure, without following him with a pang. I contend that no man needs argument, no man needs evidence, on such a subject as this; and no man has lived forty years who has not seen his pathway of life marked by the graves of some that he loved most, from whose promise he augured most, whose career was to be the brightest, who have fallen at his side, victims to this sin. I should not dare to uncover one single roof in this city, no matter how guarded by wealth, education, or any other fence; for I should be sure to find, even in the narrowest family circle, one vacant seat, which this gigantic tempter had emptied. I have only such tale to tell as every one of your hearts bears witness to. Lawyer, merchant, divine—no matter where you take your testimony; every man’s heart is full, every man’s memory is the most accusing witness against this great social evil. For myself, I go back to the opening of life, and I count the best and the brightest who started with me, and some of the most loved, who have been victims to this great social evil. I am no sentimentalist. The keen arrows of dreadful experience, which every year makes more intense and more emphatic, are my inspiration. I believe in it as a great national security; but I argue it as a great individual duty resting upon every man who judges his own past, or who has any pity for his neighbor.

GERRIT SMITH ON LOCAL AGGRANDIZEMENT.
Mr. Smith has recently addressed a letter to Mr. Greeley, rebuking the spirit of state pride and local vanity and ambition. These feelings overtopped that of patriotism in the South, and seduced her people to rebellion. Perhaps, says Mr. Smith, the same weakness is no less at the North. Slaveholding and the love of rule produced it at the South; so the greed of gain can produce it at the North. He instances the selfishness of New Jersey in imposing transit duties, and that of New York in refusing to consent to the use of the Niagara river for a canal, lest it may injure the commercial interests of a portion of the people of the State. Of New Jersey, he says: “In effect and to no small extent, New Jersey has seceded from the nation. That she has not seceded from it directly and entirely, is only because she has not been tempted to do so. With no affection for her sister states, and no patriotism to make her national, she would not, unless obliged to, remain in the Union a single year after her selfish interests should begin to clamor for her withdrawal from it.” New York, he finds, is proving herself to be no less selfish, unpatriotic, and unnational than the State of New Jersey, in refusing to permit the use of the Niagara as an outlet for the productions of the West. “By all that is patriotic and national, just and generous, fraternal and religious, she is urged to permit it. Nevertheless, she withstands the appeal. For she thinks she can make money by withstanding it; and it is money that she is after.” On the objection to the measure, which is made in the name of patriotism, he remarks “that it, as well as the patriotism, is affected,” deeming that “patriotism poor which does not go for the country, and the whole country.”
The spirit which Mr. Smith animadverts on needs rebuke, no doubt. It will until better principles are established among men. It will need rebuke and checking till human nature shall become subject to higher laws and nobler impulses than those which prevail in politics and commerce at this time. All the States are selfish. All nations are selfish. All seek their own ends, often in suicidal ways, through ignorance and blinding selfishness. The West seeks the use of the Niagara river from the same motives that the state of New York declines to grant it. The West aims at greater profits; so does New York. The feeling, when extreme, is unworthy. If it be not too great, however, so as to be shortsighted, unjust and aggressive, it produces beneficial effects. It is the root of business enterprise; it is the ground for the projection of those stupendous works of internal improvement which promote the interests of the whole country, incidentally at least. The feeling is its own antidote too. The selfishness of New York is limited in its operation; so is that of a Western State. They tend to neutralize each other by their clashing. The demands of the one collide with those of the other. Mutual concession is the result. It would, perhaps, be better if there was a national feeling so just, so vital, so kind, that it would recognize the claims of all, and do no act that would not promote the interests of all. When men rise to obedience to the golden rule, and do by others as they would be done by, these jealousies and these mutual attempts, by different interests, to overreach each other, will be done away. Till then there will be self-seeking. Its best and greatest compensations are in the collision of rival interests more than in the most persuasive appeals to the sense of justice or to the feelings of patriotism.–Utica Herald.
<c06>
THE PRESIDENT’S HEALTH.
We believe it was quite possible to have selected a stronger man for President; yet that does not conflict with the fact that his death or permanent disability now would be a calamity—very generally and justly deplored. We cannot forecast the future which that bereavement would open; yet we think few Americans, even though disloyal, can wish to confront its realization.
But, if the President is to outlive the terms on which he has just entered, a radical retrenchment must be promptly effected in the current exactions on his time and energies. He has been carried further toward the grave by his four years in the White House than he could have been by be ten years of constant labor in the courts or a farm. All who knew him in 1860 and have met him in 1865, most have observed his air of fatigue, exhaustion and languor–so different from his old hearty, careless, jovial manner. We are sure no good physician, who has seen him since last December, can have heard of his recent illness without feeling that this was what might and should have been expected.
For human strength is finite, and no man could endure the constant tension of his faculties imposed on President Lincoln, without a more or less speedy break- down. Go when you will to the White House, from early morn until a late hour at night, and you find the ante-chamber filled with a crowd of eager solicitors of a special interview with the President. “Only five minutes,” pleads one who may have come from Iowa for the purpose, and who thinks it very hard that the President cannot give him that minimum of attention when he has given so much of his time and energies to advance what he mistakenly considers that President’s fortunes, not reflecting that even a five minutes’ interview with every one who should desire an audience would very soon place our Chief Magistrate beyond the scope of earthly aspiration. Let it be understood that the President would confer for even two minutes with every one who might fancy that he had occasion for an interview, and Mr. Lincoln could not remain above ground for even a month longer.
It being simply impossible that the President should grant an audience to every one who solicits it, we urge that decided steps should at once be taken in the premises. If his life is indeed worth saving, those steps cannot be taken a moment too soon. The post-office at Wampsville or the tide waitership at Patchogue may be a matter of grave consequence to the people of that respected locality; but the life of the President happens at present to be of even greater consequence to the country in general; and this cannot be preserved if he is to receive deputations and listen to conflicting statements touching rival aspirants to said post-office or inspectorship. If we be determined that Mr. Lincoln’s life is of greater consequence than the rival interest in question, then that determination demands instant and resolute action in its support.
Few can have an adequate idea of the volumes of papers that go up to the President daily, demanding his consideration and action. Applications for office and for military promotion; remonstrances against the aforesaid; solicitations for cotton permits and other varieties of the unclean brood whereof these are the type; petitions for the pardon of spies and other convicted traitors; entreaties for the release of smugglers, blockade-runners, and sellers of goods to Rebels; protests against this act of alleged spoliation or tyranny by some military commandant; replications to such protests, &c., &c. Of course, mistakes would be made and injustice committed in acting in this mass of business under any circumstances; but how many more must inevitably be made when the President’s time and powers are all absorbed by personal bores, and he must at the last moment sign right and left the documents prepared and laid before him, with but a very confused notion of what they are, and with no other knowledge of the facts on which they are based than that supplied by an indorsement affixed by some one who may be careless, or prejudiced, or bribed. The perils and evils of this slap-dash manner of doing business are must palpable.
Reform in the premises is sure to come; but it may come too late. It ought now to be settled, so as never hereafter to be unsettled, that the President can give but an hour or two per day to personal interviews with others than those in immediate official relations with him; and that this limited term must be allotted as he judges most conducive to the public weal. If he can assign two hours to such interviews, let him spend one of them in the East Room, conversing informally with all comers, and let the other be given in specified allotment to such as he may single out from the crowd thus collected. But attach no weight to this suggestion, nor to any mere question of detail–the vital matter being that the President must be relieved, at once and forever, from the pressure of personal solicitations and interviews which now wastefully absorb his working hours, and threaten to end prematurely his days.–N. Y. Tribune.
We trust the timely hint and admonition contained in the foregoing article will be duly heeded.

THE COUNTRY’S LESSON.
Andrew Johnson, the Vice President elect, on the day of his induction into office, stood up in the United States Senate, in presence of representatives of foreign governments and the leading statesmen of the country, in a state of undoubted intoxication. Whether this was an occasional condition or a confirmed habit, neither he nor his friends have thought fit to enlighten us. The fact itself is enough. The spectacle was humiliating, and the thought of it makes every American citizen hang his head in shame. The first feeling excited is that of indignation. The moral sentiments are outraged by such exhibitions, and we pour forth our indignant rebuke on the offender. This is just. No public man should be allowed to outrage the most sacred interests of morality, without feeling the consequences. Every citizen who by his vote aided in the election of the Vice President has a right to demand that this violation of decency and virtue be noticed, and that the Senate of the United States should thoroughly investigate the subject.
But we have little hope or expectation that anything will be done in this direction. The whole affair, as far as possible, will be hushed up. Already the papers speak of the appearance of the Vice President in the Senate. He is described as having recovered from his recent illness, and being in good spirits. His friends greet him with a cordial welcome, and nothing is said of what has passed.
Now there is something behind this affair worse than the fact itself. In Washington, drinking is the custom. It is sanctioned by fashion, and it is not considered a very heinous offence for honorable members to get drunk. Unless the capital is defamed, even those who call themselves ladies join in the social glass until the flushed cheek, sparkling eye and unloosed tongue tell the story of excess. If, then, these things are true, is it any wonder that drunkenness shows itself on the 4th of March at noonday? An drew Johnson, staggering in the Senate and reeling while making his speech, is only a mirror, in which a very large class of men, both public and private, see the image of themselves. 
In view of these facts, it will be of little avail to let off a few explosive words of indignation. This leaves the evil untouched. We strike at the root only when the social habits and customs are changed. All of our cities educate men to be drunkards before they go to Washington. We elect them. A change, then, must begin at home. Every where the evil of intemperance is on the increase. We are fast becoming a nation of drunkards, and if such startling facts as these, which from time to time become known, do not convince us, then we will not believe, though one rise from the dead.
Ere this nation can be rescued, we need a radical change in our social customs. Men live fast. The war has made drinking very common. Villainous liquors madden the inebriate. More are stricken down by alcohol than by rebel bullets. Our young men are swiftly going down to the drunkard’s grave. Who does not see all this? The fact as Washington is only one. It follows in the common drift. If we go on, where will be the end? The event and the hour both point one way. We need a grand temperance revival. Nothing short of a temperance reform will save us. We must begin anew, and create a better public sentiment. Until this is done, the evil is untouched, and we may at any time have a repetition of the disgraceful scene at Washington.
Since writing the above, it is announced that the Vice President has taken the pledge of total absence for four years. We hope this is true; if so, and both Houses would follow in the same path, it would be the dawn of a better day for American politics and legislation.–Boston Christian Register.
