THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORING,
-AT-
221 WAHSINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6,
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-Francis Jackson, Edmund QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.

VOL. XXXI. NO. 15. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1581.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
WHAT THE ABOLITIONISTS HAVE DONE.
A short time, in the history of nations, gentlemen -thirty years only-when I had no gray hair on my head, but when, like many of you here, in the prime of youth, this incident occurred, and it is an insignificant one. A newspaper made its appearance, called the Liberator, and the Governor of Virginia at that day wrote to a friend of his in Boston to know something of this Liberator newspaper. He stated that the paper had been sent here through the post-office to teach insubordination and incite servile insurrection. What, said the Governor, is the meaning of this? How is it that the old cradle of liberty allows this paper to exist? His friend wrote back and stated:-"The paper you have sent me I have carefully examined, and immediately made it my business to seek its origin. After a long and tedious search, I discovered that it was published by as insignificant and unknown man, and printed in the attic of a waste house in a back street of the city of Boston. The publisher nobody knows or cares for; his whole concern is a small, dirty room, containing a press worked by himself once a week to throw out the issue which he prepares for the public. I think the Governor of Virginia- the Governor of that great old Commonwealth which led the van in the Revolutionary war-may rest content that there is no danger to the liberties of Virginia from this source." That was thirty years age: and at that time, this little indication was but a small cloud in the heavens, not bigger than a man's hand. How is it now? It has grown to be a cloud that covers the whole face of the heavens-it has grown to be a power that is striking down the bulwark of constitutional liberty and freedom. That was its origin. How has it progressed to this colossal proportion? It went into the churches of the Lamb of God. and created divisions there; and then, with impious presumption, said, we are more wise in our generation than the. God of heaven when he gave laws to the children of Israel. We say that slavery is a curse, and that damnation will attend you who live in the country where it exists. They say, you cannot sit down at the table of the Lord that is given as the covenant fur man's salvation. But why do 1 dwell upon this subject? It is quite as familiar to you as it is to me, and it is therefore unnecessary that I should dwell any longer upon it. What institution in the country has this fanaticism not set upon and destroyed? It has invaded every fundamental right which we hold dear, and has finally <illegible> and glorious Union. What is this which they religiously regard as a curse? God in his commandments wrote with his own fingers upon Mount Sinai, "Thou shall not covet thy neighbor's slave"; and if these fanatics will deal with this subject in religious aspect, I would have them remember that the first slave-catcher in the history of the world was an angel of God, sent by God to take a runaway slave-a negro-and bring him back to his matter. (Applause and laughter.) It is a hallowed institution, and it seems that, in the Providence of God. it came down through the new dispensation to be preserved and perpetuated in conformity with the will of Divine Providence. With all reverence, allow me to state to those who want a new Bible and an anti-slavery God, that if the doctrine of Moses has become too old fogeyish for them, they can refer to the New Testament, and there seek some further light. An angel, as I have said, was the first slave-catcher. St. Paul sustained the institution, and admonished submission on the part of slaves to their masters; and everywhere we find it consecrated by the will of God. through which it is destined to a perpetual existence, to be controlled and governed in conformity with his precepts. Is it therefore to be presumed that this institution is against religion? God thought not-Moses thought not-Paul thought not-Jesus Christ thought not-the Constitution thought not, (Applause.) But how stands the fact? Has it ever occurred to you that the institution of African slavery in the United States was of itself a miracle, like the delivery of the children of Israel from the bonds of the Egyptian? Then the power of God divided the sea, and let the oppressed go free, and the water stood as a wall on either side, and the oppressed went free, when Pharaoh with his chariot was swallowed up in the deep. (Applause.) How came African slavery to be instituted in the. United States? What great interest required it? What great national policy demanded it? What great religious instinct prompted it? What great sentiment of philanthropy demanded it'? Not one. Here were a people savage from the beginning-here were a people found in a condition the most deplorable that the human heart can contemplate, who, by some peculiar and unaccountable destiny, were brought from the land where they lived to this country, here to remain. and engage in those pursuits which peculiarly befitted their helpless condition. And what has When the result? The institution has prospered beyond all the colonies that have ever been planted. From being savages, they have come to be civilized -from being savages, they have become Christians-from being savages, they have become happy and content. Was the like ever known? Was a colony coder such circumstances ever planted, and has any 'colony more nourished 'I If all the combined powers of the combined nations of the earth were to unite to plant such colonies, they could not have succeeded. God planted it, and it succeeded. In a commercial point of view, in a national point of view. in a religious point of view, in a philanthropic point of view, what is there in this institution that authorizes interference with it? Yet these people have advanced, and laid their unhallowed hands upon this institution of God Almighty; and they say you are sinners, the curse of God adheres to your garments, we will have no fellowship with you. This has been going on for thirty years, In spite of all those facts, and of another one which I will allude to, they are determined to-break down this government; they intend to force the blessing of liberty upon these people. It is no new idea, This idea of freeing the African is not new. It has been tried before; and what has been the result? You have seen England, that great Power, come forward in the days of the prosperity of one of her island possessions. proclaiming in the highways and byways that she struck from the slaves, in the first island that God ever made, the manacles which bound them, and set them free. Yes, sir. she elevated the black man to the possession of freedom, and thus sought to force upon you the belief that he is your brother and your equal. She gave to him the finest isle of the ocean: and what has been the result of the experiment? Man has freed him, and God has declared him to be a slave; and the experiment of freedom in this instance exhibits the fact that, instead of his improving, he goes down. What has become of that island? It is this day a wilderness and desert. It did not stop them. God 
<c02>
intended that the example should go further, and when He instigated our brethren at the North to an act of humanity, when he turned their eyes away from the burning of witches to the freeing of the American slave, what has been the case? When those men were liberated, after a century of close education, have they advanced in the school of human civilization? They have not, but have fallen as soon as the shackles of slavery were shaken from their arms-have fallen through the network of society, and gone down to the abyss of degradation, finding their way out from the centre of society through three channels- those of crime, poverty and insanity. They have disappeared; and all the moral suasion, and all the teachings of the Gospel, all the Sunday schools and tract societies have been unable to stay their progress. Go into jails and hospitals and lunatic asylums, and there you will find confirmed what I have already referred to as the channels through which the depletion of this black element in society is wrought. No, the hand of God Almighty is in this thing. It is like the miracle which He performed in bringing the Israelites through the Red Sea. But these Northern men are wiser in this generation than God; they are holier than the Divine One who died on Calvary; and they come to tell you that you shall liberate these people, or you shall be damned. (Laughter.)-[Secretary Floyd's Speech at Richmond, Virginia.

NO RECONSTRUCTION.
It must be a great relief to the many Northern people who are willing to make any concessions to bring back the seceding States, to read such articles as the following from the Mobile Tribune:-
"There is not a man so bold as to advocate at the hustings or in the Senate the reconstruction of the Union by the return of the cotton States to its embrace. No! not even with amendments to its Constitution, made by those States themselves. The affections of the people of the South are entirely alienated from the people of the North. The unkind words of our brethren are engraved in marble, and their unfriendly deeds are impressed upon all of our institutions, social, political and commercial. Whilst they never loved us, we have ceased to love them. We do not hate them, for our feelings are those of indifference, running into contempt. We desire to know them only on the battlefield, or as traders, jobbers and hucksters in commerce. The latter we prefer, but no farther than that. With England and France and Spain, we desire the closest relations, not only in the common and binding interests of a great commerce, but in those of kindly and softening influence of social intercourse, and of well poised and qualed international sentiment. With those great countries, these relations can be honorably and justly maintained. Not so with the Northern States, for they lack the elements to cement them; and they possess the solvent of all such relations, in the acid of fanaticism, whose drop is poison, which cannot be neutralized until the Puritan race is extinct.
No! until Puritanism has fulfilled its mission, and the world is relieved of its curse, the North and the South can never dwell together, as one people, again; and let Mr. Lincoln and his blind followers receive this truth, in all its magnitude and significance."

A SLAVE ADVOCATING SLAVERY.
The Savannah Republican of the 28th says:-
We have received a pamphlet entitled "Slavery and Abolitionism, as Viewed by a Georgia Slave. By Harrison Berry, the property of S. W. Rice Covington, Ga." As we have not had time to examine its contents as closely as we would, we annex the commentary of our cotemporary of the Griffin Union:-We have just finished reading a pamphlet from the pen of this personage, Harrison, Berry. We know Harrison, and know him to be a slave and a black one at that; and, although the matter of his pamphlet is not arranged with that perspicuity and system that would mark an accomplished writer, there are truths told by Harrison that it would be well for many white men, and all black ones, to ponder and profit by it That slavery is the proper status for the black man, no one can doubt who will properly investigate the subject. In his native wilds he is a savage, with no hope of improvement. A free man among white people, he is inferior, and cannot rise to a level with his neighbors, and has all his work to do, when in health, under disadvantages that few can overcome; and, when sick, he has no one to care for him; while the slave has only his work to do when in health, with all the advantages his master's position and superior management can afford him; and when sick, his master is bound, by law and interest, to attend to his necessities. And it is true, as Harrison says, that the Abolitionists are his worst enemies, inasmuch as all their efforts only tend to draw the cords of servitude more tightly around him, and deprive him of many indulgences that he would otherwise enjoy.

SUBMISSIONISTS ADMONISHED.
The conceited, eccentric, stubborn few who oppose secession are warring against Providence, finding fault with the ways of God. They may occasion war and bloodshed by their irritating opposition; they may prevent a peaceful solution of our difficulties, but cannot prevent secession. If war does come, the submissionists will be alone to blame for it. Were they to unite their efforts with the secessionists, and show to the imbecile government at Washington that Virginians were united and unanimous, that government would let us depart in peace. If they continue their hopeless, factious opposition, they will prompt and encourage Lincoln to profit by our divisions and attempt coercion, which is but incipient war. Or, if we escape war from without, they may engender worse than war in our midst. Virginians are conservative, order-loving, law-abiding people; they are patient and forbearing as they are brave, and yet they are but men. Opposed, thwarted, freted by the submissionists, will they not at last become as intolerant, proscriptive and cruel as their English ancestry in the days of Cromwell? The barricades, the" a la lanterne," and the guillotine of Paris, will never find place among us; but certainly, unless the submissionists succumb, and obey the voice of the people, they will excite a spirit of persecution in Virginia worse in its effects than foreign war. The submissionists are sure to be the first victims of the intestine troubles which they invoke and occasion. Already they have run up a long account of guilt. They are keeping business at a standstill. They are expelling much of the wealth and population of the State. Anxiety, doubt, uncertainty, beset and annoy every mind. They occasion this state of things, and they could remove it, restore confidence, revive business and arrest immigration, by simply voting for an ordinance of secession.-Richmond Examiner.
<c03>
Selections
THE SECEDING STATES
Statistics are very ugly things. The importance attached to "Secession" diminishes as we look at the ugly figures which authentic documents supply.
The bank capital of the seven States of the Southern Confederacy is $61,349,488. The bank capital of Massachusetts $ 64,519,200. The S. C. want a fifteen million loan, and Mississippi is one of the States which pledges her faith to pay it, when there is not a bank of issue of sufficient account in the whole State to receive mention in statistical documents. The aggregate debt of the Confederacy is $31,915,103.
The population of the seven departed States is 2,7O3.646 free, and 2,350.677slave, making a total of 5,054,323. The white population of New York alone is 3,851,563, which exceeds that of "Secession" over a million, and combined with the population of Pennsylvania, which is 2,924.501, these two States show a front of a million and a half of freemen above the united free and enslaved of the South, The receipts for carrying the mails one year in the Southern Confederacy were $829,582, and the expense $3,082,960, a loss to the Treasury of $2,253,378. In the five New England States, the receipts during the same year were $1,224,280, and the expenses $1,156,721, leaving a surplus of over fifty thousand dollars. The sooner we stop the mails, the more profitable it will be.
We see no easier or more politic method of making these United States one and truly inseparable than by acknowledging the Southern Confederacy. Let the seven States take care of themselves if they can. Let them have their forts and their revenue peaceably, and they will find that setting up on their own hook is the most disastrous job they ever undertook. The heavy direct taxation which is sure to follow will touch the pockets of the wealthy, time will assuage the imaginary wrongs which the North is charged with, and we shall see the reign of reason bring with it a reconstruction of our Government through the medium of a National Convention.
It is very easy to talk about pluck and bloodshed, but there is nothing to be obtained by war which cannot be accomplished by conciliatory measures. It is not a foreign enemy we are contending against, but men who have been our friends, who, differing from us upon a vital principle, have sought a rash method to relieve themselves from evils which it pleased politicians, for selfish ends, to so magnify, that by subtlety and design they precipitated the South into a revolution, We at the North do not believe that a fair expression of opinion has yet been made by the conservative men of the South, and many. we think the majority, are opposed to the adoption of measures which might prevent them from making their influence felt. War waged against them would certainly induce them to espouse the cause of their State, or they would be less than men. The attempt to stigmatize such a course as the effect of fear is ridiculous when we consider that the wisest diplomacy is that which prevents suffering, and accomplishes a result without loss of human life. The surrender of the forts is not a matter of any weight whatever, and must inevitably follow a recognition of the Southern Confederacy. We require the cooperation of the Border States, and we believe Mr. Lincoln will retain them.
It is not to be expected that this trouble will be settled in a day, for it will require many months to convince the seceding States that they are not so well off as they were before. They love the Almighty Dollar just as well where the Palmetto waves and the magnolia blooms, as where pine, granite and ice are marketable commodities. When they find the dollar clipped by taxes on imports and exports, when they see that increased competition increases the cost of all the necessaries of life, we have strong faith that they will do just as we Yankees would do, arrive at the conclusion that the style of conducting things was not exactly the style conducive to comfort and happiness.-Boston Evening Gazette.

AN ENGLISH PROTEST AGAINST SOUTHERN RECOGNITION.
Mr. Gregory has given notice that, on an early day, he will call the attention of her majesty's government to the expediency of a prompt recognition of the Southern Confederacy of America. There is no occasion for Mr. Gregory or any one else to be anxious to get our government to acknowledge the so-called Southern Confederacy of American states The practice of the British government in such cases is firmly established and well understood, viz., to recognize all de facto governments, irrespective of opinions, origin, or any circumstance but the fact of being the actually established ruling power. If ever and whenever that happens with the Southern States, which now profess to be a confederacy, there can be no doubt about their being recognized by all the European powers: and by England, with the utmost certainty and distinctness. But the case has not yet reached this stage; and it is very far from reaching it. The secession leaders who have assumed office do not pretend to be more than a provisional body; no appeal has been made to the people of their States; none of the constitutional conditions of republican organizations have as yet been complied with: and none of the antecedents which were specified by the founders of the republic as justifying rebellion have occurred. The movers in the case have begged the question in regard to the right of secession; and there has as yet been no opportunity of reply from the other side. The whole matter remains for treatment; and in the most democratic country in the world, the great body of the people has been silent during a whole winter of crisis, from actual want of opportunity to declare their opinion and will. There can be no recognition from without of any new claims put forth in such an interval; and the American nation has a right to expect from its foreign allies patience to wait till the people have spoken and taken their course of action.
The inauguration address of the provisional President of the South was intended to produce just such an effect as it seems to have produced on Mr. Greeley's mind. This audacious parody on the Declaration of Independence might, it was evidently thought, catch the ear of Americans, to whom that Declaration is as familiar as the Lord's Prayer; and it might entrap the imagination of foreigners who might not have paid sufficient attention to the course of American affairs to detect its inapplicability. One does not look for extreme accuracy or for any impartiality in political manifestoes issued by revolutionary officials, on their first attempt to rule the people they have raised; but it may be doubted whether in any European conflict within this revolutionary century, any document has appeared more impudently false than Mr. Jefferson Davis's address. It is so incredible that he and any hearers qualified for political action can be self-deceived to such a point as to believe what he was saying, that we can only suppose the object to be to lead the ignorant people about them
<c04>.
by the sound of familiar and venerated words, trusting to their inability to perceive the baselessness of the thoughts. If the poor whites of the Southern section who constitute nearly three-fourths of the white population, can really be led by such an address as this to fancy themselves resisting oppression, and establishing free government under the special blessing of Heaven, in imitation of their fathers ninety years ago, they are indeed fit only for such subjection to oligarchical government as has long been, and still will be, required of them.
In citing the familiar and venerable statement of the Declaration of Independence, as to the causes which justify rebellion, and the principles on which the resulting polity should be framed and organized, Mr. Jefferson Davis pronounced the most crushing condemnation of his own case, in terms of the keenest irory. The statunchest Republican of the North might have taken up the same parable as the aptest speech he could make. The Philadelphia patriots exhibited the long course of oppressions the colonies had endured before they lost patience, and the actual extremities of injury they underwent before they raised a hostile flag. In the present case, the Southern party has enjoyed thirty years' possession of the federal government-thirty years of domination over the whole Union-during which they have altered the laws, undermined the Constitution, carved out territory, restricted liberty, and created license, for their own sectional objects and interests. So much for the long oppression which has driven them to resistance! And what outrage roused the reluctant men of peace at last? What was the stamp act of the present occasion? It was the loss of an election, a constitutional election, conducted in a regular and orderly way! London news

THE COWHIDE DESPERADOES 
A Roman Emperor inaugurated his reign by declaring that he was determined to be hated. A similar ambition may be said to possess the statesmen of Southern America, whose constant effort, it seems, is to cut themselves off from all human sympathy, to be abhorred, and to concentrate upon their faction the obloquy of the world. There is something preternaturally repulsive in the slang, the swagger, and the ruffianis in of these cowhide desperadoes. Every fresh report from the head-quarters of rowdyism aggravates the atrocity of its brutalizing influence. The Carolinian Senator considers himself degraded unless he struts, like a Dutch bandit, with a brace of revolving pistols in his pockets, or a bludgeon, the mere carrying of which would be regarded as an outrage even in <illegible> guardism, a cowardice or a treachery, so consummate as that of the negro-driving States in the new Southern Confederacy.
It is not enough for the auctioneers of African flesh and blood that they can torture their stripped victims, and commit assassination with impunity; it is not enough that they are privileged to flay or burn alive their breathing chattels; they must stalk into the Senate-House armed with  instruments of murder; they must conspire to establish a reign of terror by means of a cut-throat policy. They must plot to take the life of their new President, while the Republic is charioting him to her sacred throne These malignant wretches, impish and paltry beyond conception in their ideas of political revenge, endeavored to blow up Abraham Lincoln with an infernal machine, on his journey from Cincinnati, and schemed to originate a railway accident by which hundreds of lives might have been lost, in order to gratify their jealousy of a man who has triumphed over the most dangerous cabal in the Commonwealth.
The worst element in the position of the Union is this position of the South, which has derived from the Spaniard its barbarous vanity, from the Huron and Mohawk its savage indifference to suffering, and from the mongrels of the Gulf its loathsome habit of combining the manners of the bull-ring with the morals of the bordello. President Lincoln is called upon to deal with this seditious, turbulent and homicidal population. It is to his credit that he has not yet been provoked into repaying their menaces in such coin as may be minted at arsenals and issued at the cannon's mouth: but unless the crisis speedily assumes a new aspect, such as the latest intelligence does not warrant us in expecting it is obvious that the crime of civil fratricide will be perpetrated, and that the liberties of America will be abandoned to the arbitration of the battle-field.
Should this alternative be forced upon the Cabinet at Washington, as appears almost inevitable, it is in the highest degree important that the public opinion of Europe should be qualified to judge impartially between the belligerents. What, in reality, is the spirit of the South which has challenged this domestic war, which has thus disturbed the peace of half a continent, which has raised a storm in the channels of trade, and compromised the industry of the Old World by convulsing the politics of the New? The North has been-somewhat prematurely and intemperately-accused of adopting a commercial system hostile to freedom, and injurious to the interests of England. But the measure, so far as it has hitherto been developed, resembles one of self-defence rather than one of aggression or monopoly. The Northern States understand perfectly well that their antagonists are without scruple, and that only material sacrifices will restore to them a reluctant sense of public duty. Before we blame the exclusive tariff sanctioned at Washington, we may as well inquire whether it has not been partially forced upon Congress by the contumelious defiance's and boasting arrogance of the Southern Confederation. The slave-drivers of Charleston have a policy of their own, which is to dissociate themselves from those who at present sustain the carrying-trade of America, and to open up a system of independent intercourse with Great Britain. Naturally and logically, the Unionist party endeavor to baffle these tactics; and the result is, no doubt, inimical to the broad principles of free trade, Yet we must remember that the Union is upon its trial, and that no effort can be too arduous which rescues it from existing dangers. The South attempts to treat the North as it; treats its own black vassals, who, like the serfs of Sparta, are scourged to death at the altar of the only god that the cotton-planter worships.
And how is this policy exemplified? Ever since Mr. Lincoln's ascent to the Presidential chair, the cruelties of the slave-owners have been multiplied and intensified, because it is feared that, unless a system of terror be established, the hereditary bondsmen will make weapons of their chains, and crush oppression itself under the heel of revolted Slavery. Not in Algiers, when the Deys were at the summit of their execrable power; not in Rome, when the poor captive girl, after being flagitiously abused, was flung into a fish pond; not in Russia, when the executioner cut out the tongue of his knouted victim, have horrors more terrible been recorded than have been testified to unwilling witnesses since the triumph of Mr. Lincoln.
<c05>
The over-worked, under-fed, miserably-clad, and wretchedly-lodged slaves, have been compelled, as a means of repressing their intelligence, to work in iron collars, to sleep in the stocks, to drag heavy chains at their feet, to wear yokes, bells, and copper horns; to stand naked while their masters or mistresses brand them infamously, to have their teeth drawn, to have red pepper rubbed into their excoriated flesh, to be bathed in turpentine, to be thrust into sacks with mad cats, to have their fingers amputated, to be shaved, and to be whipped from neck to heel with red-hot irons. It is of no avail to deny this impeachment. Congress itself, which contains a majority of slave-owners, admits the truth. The American journals teem with advertisements of slaves whose bodies are marked indelibly with the traces of torture. Cases are frequently tried in the law courts of the Union, of masters who have not only flogged their black girls to death, but have deliberately carved the flesh from their bones; and since the beginning of the panic caused by Mr. Lincoln's election, these abominations have been redoubled.
The slaves are distinctly told that upon the slightest indication of a scheme for joining with the agitators of the North, they shall be tied up, one to every cotton and peach tree in the land, and flagellated until they are more abject than the worms in the dust. These threats, accompanied as they are by exemplary atrocities, may for a time curb the impatience of the negro population, but the planters are dismally mistaken if they imagine that this policy will, in the long run, uphold their usurped privileges. They may resolve upon bloodshed. They may assail the forts of the Union, they may prolong the bloody conflict, until the President is compelled to demand extraordinary supplies for the military service; but they are rendering the feud mortal, and every drop of blood shed by the abettors of the revolution will fall upon their own heads in a retribution of tenfold severity. The struggle has begun, but it will never end until the South has been subjected to a defeat, which will not only destroy its political influence, but ruin its property, and inflict a final punishment upon those enslavers of humanity whose ferocity has so long invoked the vengeance of the world.-London (Eng) chronicle, March 14.

THE MARCH OF EVENTS.
So rapid and impetuous is the march of events in the United States, so quickly does one scene succeed another, in the great political drama, that news becomes of secondary interest almost before it is <illegible>looking forward with breathless interest for the President's inaugural speech The electric telegraph furnished us an abridgement of it yesterday morning; to-day, we are enabled to give it at full length, but accompanied with intelligence which is quite as important as itself. The speech takes up grounds strictly constitutional. In it the President confines and in trenches himself behind the express powers which the Constitution has given him, and refuses to recognize any other. He is capable of considerable flights of fancy, but cannot emancipate himself from the shackles of a merely legal mind. He looks into his bond, and he finds there that he is bound to execute the law in all parts of the Union, and to preserve the Federal property, and he intends to execute the law and preserve the Federal property accordingly What the consequence of performing these acts may be, it is not for him to consider; his business is to execute the law; let those who make the law answer for the rest.
Mr. Buchanan took much the same view of his functions, but he extracted from that view the interference, that he was bound to do nothing; while Mr. Lincoln considers that he is bound to do exactly the thing which is sure to produce the war which he conceives it to be beyond his power to declare. Nor is it his discretion alone which the President believes to be circumscribed by the Constitution. Not only does he seem to conceive himself prevented from doing anything beyond its strict precepts, he does not feel that he is allowed to know of anything unconstitutional. He knows that his fellow-countrymen are dissatisfied, but he is forbidden to know that seven States are in flagrant rebellion. There is a Presidential as well as a Judicial knowledge; and, as Courts of Law are not allowed to know many things which are perfectly notorious to the rest of the world, so it is with Presidents, part of whose duty it is to have purer eyes than to behold anything that savors of rebellion. We see that this way of looking at the question finds favor in the eyes of the purely Republican journals, while the South appears to consider it, as far as we can judge from their organs in New York, as the flinging down the glove, which it will not hesitate a moment to take up. Had Mr. Lincoln been President at the time the secession was first threatened, an essay on the Constitution and a few words of friendly persuasion might have been an appropriate way of dealing with the subject. But it is childish, as well as dangerous, thus studiously to ignore the real state of the case, and to seek by constitutional reasonings to influence men who have placed themselves out of the pale of the Constitution altogether. There is no safer maxim in human affairs than carefully to examine one's own position and that of one's antagonist, before announcing any resolution, and to base that resolution on actual and real, not on imaginary or conventional considerations. With the real state of America the Federal Constitution has, most unfortunately, very little to do. The President might almost as well go back to the social contracts of Rousseau. The question is not judicial, but political-not one of laws and powers, but of reason and expediency. We believe that, instead of ignoring the secession of the South and determining to treat it as non avenue, the President ought to recognize it as a reality. We do not say that he ought to recognize the right to secede, which clearly does not exist, any more than the right to rebel against the English Crown claimed by the American colonies existed as a part of the English Constitution. We do not say that the President is bound to treat as legal the Confederacy which has risen up in opposition to his own; but what we maintain is, that, as a wise man, a patriotic magistrate, and a good citizen, he is rendering an evil service to his country if he does not deal with things as they are, instead of as they ought to be. When civil war is as imminent as it appears to be at this moment in America, it is well to admit the only possible alternative, that of hearing what terms the South is prepared to propose in order to avert so dreadful a calamity. The last alternative always remains, and the fratricidal sword will not have lost its edge by remaining in the sheath a few weeks longer. But the course adopted, fair as it may sound, leaves no hope or possibility of reconciliation. The South cannot be heard, because it must not be recognized; and acts which must lead to civil war are to be done, rather than admit that things which render civil war possible have actually occurred.-London (Eng.) Times, March 9th.
<c06>
NEWS FROM THE CONFERENCES.
The East Baltimore Conference passed the resolutions on the New Chapter, which we gave last week, by a vote of 159 to 10.
The Western Virginia Conference, by a series of resolutions, first, regretted the passage of the New Chapter; second, expressed their judgment that the chapter is not law, and that they shall be governed by what they regard the teachings of the Scriptures, amenable only to God and the Annual Conference; third, they should not interfere in any way with the legal relation of master and servant, but preach to both their reciprocal duties.
The Missouri Conference expressed their opinion that the chapter is "declarative and advisory," and that they had no grievances to be redressed and no complaints to make, and intend to stand firmly by the church of their choice. This was adopted unanimously by a rising vote. This Conference stations 71 preachers, and has eight places to be supplied. It grows faster than it would if it took a" milk and water" position on slavery, because men always like what they can understand. The Central Christian Advocate now pays expenses, and the Nestor of our editorial fraternity, Dr. Elliott, seems well pleased with his post. He tells us that he has learned of dozens of instances in which members of the Conference have been assailed or disturbed by pro-slavery mobs during the last year, and that they meet as fellow-sufferers as well as fellow-laborers.
Baltimore Conference. We announced last week that this Conference voted, previous to adjournment, to secede. We give the particulars as follows: On Saturday, the 23d inst, G. W. Israel presented a paper in the form of a Protest against the action of the last General Conference in adopting the Chapter on Slavery. It was adopted with the understanding that it did not commit the Bishop or Conference as an organized body in opposition to the church. A Report presented by N. Wilson was then taken up, and the first resolution (below,) adopted by the following vote: Yeas, 88; Declined to vote, 41; Declined to vote for the present, 3; Nays, 2. The following are the resolutions:-
1. Be it Resolved, by the Baltimore Annual Conference, in Conference Assembled, That we hereby declare that the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, held at Buffalo in May, 1860, by its unconstitutional action has sundered the ecclesiastical relation which has hitherto bound us together as one church, so far as any act of theirs could do so. That we will not longer submit to the jurisdiction of said General Conference, but hereby declare ourselves separate and independent of it, still claiming to be notwithstanding, an integral part <illegible>
2. Resolved, That, nevertheless, if in accordance with the spirit of the foregoing preamble, three-fourths of the several Annual Conferences, to be held prior to the next session of the Annual Conference, seeing the great wrong and injury done to the Baltimore and other Border Conferences, shall disavow the act of their delegates and the action of the late General Conference on the subject of slavery, and shall unite in a demand that the most thorough and satisfactory redress shall be given, and shall instruct their delegates so to vote in any Convention that may be called for the purpose of a more perfect union:-
First, by abrogating the New Chapter.
Second, by transferring the subject of slavery to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Annual Conferences, where is exists.
That a fair proportion of the periodicals of the church be placed under the charge and direction of said Conferences. Then, and not until then, will we reunite with them in the organization of another General Conference
3. Resolved, That the Conference has taken the action expressed in the above resolutions, after much long-suffering and reproach, to give freedom to our preachers, in the discharge of their duties in our territory, and cannot refrain from expressing the hope that the day may speedily come when agitation and strife shall have ceased among us, and the great Methodist family, East, West, North, and South, be again united in the common effort which engaged the hearts and lives of our fathers-that of spreading Scriptural Holiness all over the land.
4. Resolved, That a Committee of seven, consisting of S. Register, J. S. Martin, S. S. Roszel, E. R. Veitch, W. G. Eggleston, N. Wilson, and T. H. W. Munroe, be appointed to prepare a Pastoral Letter for our people, setting forth the grounds and aims of the action.
Bishop Scott refused to act on this subject, and by vote the Secretary was authorized to put the vote. Bishop S. read the following to the Conference:-
"The whole action just had on what is called the Wilson proposition is, in my judgment, in violation of the order and discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and therefore is null and void, regarded as Conference action; I therefore do not recognize the said action as infracting the integrity of this body, and so I proceed to finish the business of the present session."
The resolution of the East Baltimore Conference, calling for an extra session of the General Conference, was voted against by a great majority.
The Philadelphia Conference had the following Committee on the State of the Church, appointed by the Bishop:-
"T. J. Thompson, Chairman; J. A. Massey, T. J. Quigley, Joseph Mason, John Ruth, W. Cooper, W. H. Brisbane, W. E. England, W. McCoomb, A. W. Milbey, R. W. Todd, C. J. Thompson, and B. F. Price."
None of these, we believe, are known to be approvers of what the church has done by passing the Chapter on Slavery. Numerous petitions were presented from the slaveholding parties of the Conference, demanding either a repudiation of the Chapter or a division of the Conference, according to State lines, leaving the slaveholding parties by themselves. Of course, the Conference has no power, legally, to divide itself. J. N. MeCabe, and others, regret that a part of the slaveholding territory, so called, will not consent to leave the M. E. Church, instancing Wilmington, Smyrna, Dover, the capital of Delaware, and other places. The party spirit was high on the subject.
The Committee on the State of the Church made a long report on the separate items, on which nine votes were taken, some of them by yeas and nays; and the report of them is such, in a Philadelphia paper, that it would puzzle any body but a Philadelphia lawyer to understand them. Our idea is, that the majority persistently shut off all debate, and put their heels upon the minority. The votes seem to be as follows: In favor of a repeal of the New Chapter on Slavery, yeas, 174; nays, 35. These 35 answered to their names, and are sound progressive New Chapter men. Among them are such as Cunningham, McCarter and Cookman. On a question of leaving each Conference to settle its own practice on slavery, a count vote was, yeas, 151; nays, 43. On a resolution disapproving of dividing the Conference by State lines, so as to separate the Slave from the Free Territory, the vote was, yeas, 143; nays, 31. Several votes were necessary to keep down debate.-Zion's Herald.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE REIGN OF RUFFIANISM.
To the Editor of the New York Tribune:
SIR,-In January last, the Indian Queen arrived at St. Mark's, Florida, from Aspinwall, for a cargo of cotton. The second officer and myself were taken down with Charges fever, and were sent ashore to the Marine Hospital This is a neat brick and stone two-story building, which cost the United States $20,000, and is the only good building in the place. The physician to the Hospital was a violent Secessionist, and a delegate to the Secession Convention. After we had been a few days in the Hospital, the physician came home from the Convention, and told us that the State had seceded, and turned us out of the Hospital. I have paid Marine Hospital dues for twenty-two years, and this was the first time that I had ever had occasion to receive any benefit from these humane institutions, established by the Government, but supported by seamen. Being thus ordered out of what I considered my home while an invalid, I was obliged to pay S30 for my expenses while there sick. The physician said he thought it well for the Southern States to remain in the Union so long as they had the Government in their hands; but, as they had now lost control of it, they would break up the Union. He thought as the United States had now no further use for the Hospital, they would give that and other public works in the State up to Florida.
The Indian Queen lay about half a mile from land, though some ten miles below the town. We had in our crew seven colored men-able seamen. A plot was formed to take these out of the ship, and sell them into slavery; but the conspirators (among them a Judge of the Supreme Court) were overheard at their midnight meeting, and the captain was informed by two o'clock in the morning of the dancer that threatened his crew. He rose immediately, hired the only steamboat in the place, and by daylight had the ship towed over the bar outside, some five miles from shore, and beyond the jurisdiction of Florida. I was on shore at the time, and heard, the next morning, about the tallest swearing among the conspirators that ever greeted my ears. The Judge seemed to be the most enraged of any at the escape of his prey. They then threatened to go outside and kidnap the crew; but a report gained credit that the vessel was armed, and the crew would give the kidnappers a bloody reception if they attempted it. Besides, the vessel was then on the high seas, which would make it piracy. I was questioned as to how many negroes we had aboard, and what kind of hands they were.
A few days after the Ordinance of Secession passed, a resident of St. Mark's remarked that he thought the North were right and the South wrong; whereupon they seized and stripped and whipped him, and started him North on the train, with directions to run him out of the country.
WALTER D. MADDOCKS,
 First Officer of bark Indian Queen. New York, March 16, 1861.
ANOTHER ILLUSTRATION OF SOUTHERN HUMANITY-FOURTEEN WEEKS IN JAIL,.
William H. Turner, of Manchester, New Hampshire, by profession an engineer and machinist, had for four years been in the habit of spending his Winters on the plantation of Woodworth & Son, at Clintonville, South Carolina, about seventeen miles from Charleston. Before the Presidential election, in reply to a question of one of his fellow-workmen, he said that if he had the casting vote, he would give it for Mr. Lincoln. About two weeks after the election, he was visited at the plantation by two men, probably vigilance committee men, who asked him if he had said what is reported above. He replied that he had. They then exhibited a warrant for his arrest, and informed him that he must go with them. The charge was of expressing Abolition sentiments. 
Mr. Turner accompanied the men to Charleston, and was taken to the jail, where he was received by the turnkey, and immediately locked up. As he passed through the streets, the bystanders hissed, hooted, and assailed him with threats of hanging, tar, and whipping, following after to the jail, and there collecting in a large mob. These waited at the prison, clamoring for his life, and threatening to kill the jailer if the prisoner was not given up. After dusk, the horse patrol came about, and dispersed the mob.
During the night Mr. Turner suffered from hunger,<illgibel>
<illegible> most sultry and oppressive. In the morning, the Sheriff, whose name, he thinks, was Snodgrass, called at the jail, and the prisoner asked him if he would be pleased to give him a drink of water. The Sheriff replied, " Go to h-II, and get water if you want it!" Some hours later, the turnkey was also asked for a cup of cold water. His reply was, "Send down East and get it!" In the afternoon he was taken before the " Vigilant Committee Tribunal." over which he thinks Judge Jeffers presided. He was asked his name, and whether he had said what was charged against him. He replied that he had said it. The Judge then tore up the original warrant, saying that another Court must take cognizance of the case, and ordered the prisoner back to jail, using the foulest language and declaring that he ought to be hanged.
Mr. Turner was then taken back to his cell, a bare stone apartment, 27 inches wide, and about eight feet long, dark, except when the full blaze of the sun fell on a skylight, which reflected some feeble rays. He passed that night, and every day and night of his imprisonment, in this hole, without a shred of bedding, or a piece of furniture of any sort, excepting a pail. The next morning, thirty-six hours after he was first taken, a small bit of hard black bread and a pint of impure water were put into the cell, and this was the allowance for each day during his confinement.
He was kept in jail till Monday, the 11 ult. During the period of this imprisonment-more than fourteen weeks-he saw no one but the attendants at the jail; his employer did not come to him, or communicate with him in any way. On the morning of the 11th of March, young Mr. Woodworth called on Mr. Turner, and said he would do the best he could to have him sent safely away, and that the wages due, $248, would be paid to him before he went. He then disappeared, and Mr.Sir. Turner saw him no more. The prisoner was shortly taken to the court-room, and asked by the Judge if he would leave the. city in six hours if he should be released. He replied that he would leave if he could get away. He was then sent, in charge of the Sheriff, to the steamer, on which he worked his passage to this city. The mob howled after him on his way to the wharf, and endeavored to get him out of the officer's hands to lynch him, but were unsuccessful. As one of his minor experiences it may be said that, before his arrest, he had left his watch and chain with a watchmaker for repairs to the former. When he called for it, on his way to the vessel which was to take him home, the watchmaker refused to give either up, telling the owner to  go to h-11"-a favorite manner of discharging obligations with the South Carolinians.-New York Tribune.
WAR AT HAND!
The last dispatch of our Secessionist friend at Montgomery leaves no room for hope of a peaceable adjustment of our country's intestine troubles. The Jeff. Davis Confederacy has resolved to wage offensive war on the Government of the United States, and will assault or open fire on Fort Pickens forth-with. Meantime, the limited daily supply of fresh provisions hitherto allowed by Gov. Pickens to be furnished to Fort Sumter has been stopped, and we may hear at any moment that this Fort, too. has been carried by assault, or is so pressed that it must speedily surrender. Within a few days at farthest at cannon of the insurgents will be battering down the defences and slaughtering the defenders of the American Union. 
Let us pause a moment and consider. 
Slavery makes open war upon Out Union which has so long been its protection and security.
 For thirty years, the opponents of a slavery have borne the imputation-which not one in a hundred of them has deserved-of seeking their end through the dissolution of the Union. 
In all this time, not a squadron has charged, not a platoon has fired, on the National flag and forces under the inspiration of Anti-Slavery. Its advocates have been beaten at elections, hunted out of halls which they had hired and paid for mobbed and maimed in the slave States, and generally proscribed and stigmatized in the free, without being goaded into hostilities. Only in Kansas, when compelled to choose between resistance and annihilation, have they been moved to repel force by force. 
The Slave Power, after enjoying undistriputed <illegible> for half a century, has at length lost an election. Hereupon, it proceeds to treat that election
<c02>
as a farce and a nullity, and defy those whom it invested with authority.
It has, while in power, loudly vaunted its fidelity and devotedness to the Federal Constitution. Losing power, it deliberately repudiates that charter, and adopts one radically different in its stead.
"The Union, the Union forever!" has been the vociferous cry of its servitors. Having lost an election, they treat that same Union as a hated curse, passing ordinances and raising armies for its overthrow.
"Let the laws be enforced!" it was thundered whenever the consciences of freemen revolted at the inhuman atrocities of slave-hunting in free States. But the moment the enforcement of the laws has devolved on Republicans, slavery denounces it as "coercion." and insists that it is inaugurating civil war! 
 And in fact to very many, North as well as South, slavery is above the Union, above the laws, above the Constitution. Rebellion, in their view, is opposition to slavery; while love of slavery and love of the Union are synonymous. 
They plead for Peace, meaning that there be no further resistance to slavery. "National Unity," in their vocabulary, means a universal agreement that slavery is eminently right, and that it ought to be diffused universally and maintained forever. 
And what is to be the attitude of the Northern opponents of the Republican party in the new era now opening before us?
They have professed to sustain slavery so far as the Constitution required, and no further. Slavery now repudiates the Constitution, breaks up the Union, and makes war on the Federal Government. If Northern Democracy allows its sympathies to follow slavery into treason, how shall it conceal, even from itself, the evidence of its own recreancy? 
There is not even a pretence that the Federal Government has done or refused to do anything whereby this rebellion is justified. It has been pacific, forbearing, and most anxious to avoid a collision. It has allowed its troops to be disarmed, its arsenals to be robbed, its forts to be seized, its money to be stolen, and its revenues to be collected and appropriated by its open enemies. Through these high-handed villanies, a whole frontier has been opened to savage incursion and massacre, until even Mexico threatens an invasion. It has seriously lost ground with its friends by vainly seeking to conciliate its implacable foes. At length the great slaveholding rebellion is ready to unmask its batteries and open fire on the most exposed and isolated of the National defences. The challenge of its opening cannonade will soon reverberate over the country. The Union flag on Fort Sumter is to be shot down by the rebel batteries unless speedily lowered by the devoted garrison. The American Republic now enters upon the gravest perils it has known since the treason of Arnold. God grant that it pass through them with undoubting reliance on the omnipotence of Justice, and emerge at length, however tried and tested, unwavering in its loyalty to Freedom and the Rights of Man!-New York Tribune. 
FROM ANOTHER STAND-POINT. 
The Liberator, in commenting upon Lincoln's Inaugural address, says,- 
**** "To break up the
Union on a pretence or a suspicion of foul play,-perfidiously seize fortifications, arsenals, and millions of other property belonging to the United States,-obstruct the collection of revenue, or use it for treasonable purposes,-fire upon a national steam-ship, and endeavor to sink it, while obeying legitimate orders,- strike down the American flag, and run up a State flag of defiance in its stead,-these are crimes of gigantic magnitude, which admit of no extenuation or atonement; and he who, intelligently conversant with them,! does not brand them as the blackest treason, is himself a traitor at heart, and doubly to be detested if he pretends to have any concern for the preservation of the Union." 
The deeds characterized as above would appear in a somewhat different light if viewed from another stand-point. Suppose that, instead of ignoring State sovereignty, we recognize it, and freely admit, what disunion abolitionists have always contended for- the right of a State to secede. This right being admitted, it is not for Massachusetts or Ohio to authoritatively indicate to South Carolina or Georgia as to how much provocation will justify them in seceding; they may leave the Union " on a pretence or a suspicion of foul play," or for any other <illegible> None of these things affect the right of secession- a right for which all disunion abolitionists have consistently contended, until the Southern States have presumed to exercise it, not for the destruction of slavery, but for its perpetuation. 
The property which belonged to the United States, in the event of a dissolution of the Union, would belong to the respective States in their just
proportion, and the Northern States would actually have no more right of property in Southern forts and arsenals, than would the Southern States have in Northern forts and arsenals. The Confederate States wish to arrange with the old government for an equitable division of property, and for the assumption of their portion of the public debt. What proposition could be fairer than this? 
Had the abolitionists succeeded-as they hoped to do-in inducing the North to withdraw from the Union, we can hardly imagine that the seceding Northern States would have permitted the South to retain and garrison with hostile forces the navy yards at Charlestown, Brooklyn and Philadelphia, and to possess the arsenal at Springfield and at other Northern points, but strongly suspect they would have taken possession of all Northern fortifications, manufactories of arms and deposits of public supplies that could otherwise be used against them to compel them to remain in the Union; and such act would not, by the usage of nations, be regarded as "perfidious," or "a crime of gigantic magnitude." 
South Carolina, believing she had a right to secede, seceded; and, as a sovereign State, it was a duty she owed to herself to obtain possession of all fortifications which she justly supposed would or might be used to obstruct her in the exercise of, that right. Having assumed the position of a sovereign State, unconnected in Federal Union with any others, pray, why should she not obstruct the collection of revenue of her people by another government, collect it herself according to the rates of her own tariff, and use it, not for treasonable purposes, but to defend herself against a government that had assumed the right to make her a tributary province?
That she should " fire upon a national steamship, and endeavor to sink it, while obeying legitimate orders," is neither surprising nor unjustifiable in the estimation of those who as fully admit the right of a Southern as of a Northern State to secede, and who remember that that steamship came to increase the facilities and the troops of another and an opposing government to bombard Charleston, and that said steamer was not in the fort held by the United States, but in the waters of Charleston harbor, where she came contrary to the wishes and against the express command of those in possession.
Nor is it remarkable that a Southern State, having exercised the right of secession, should " strike down the American flag, and run up a State flag of defiance in its stead." Had Massachusetts seceded, she would probably have done the same thing; for it would be acting under false colors for any seceding State to retain a flag that was none of hers, and would be an act worthy of censure. 
Reviewing the doctrine of secession which, as a disunion abolitionist, we have endeavored to illustrate and advocate for many years-recognizing the sovereignty of each State, and its consequent right to withdraw from the Union, with or without cause- and believing we are as " intelligently conversant" with the measures of Southern secessionists, as we think we are with the wishes of Northern anti-slavery secessionists, we are not able, from our anti-slavery stand-point, to regard them as " crimes of gigantic magnitude, which admit of no extenuation or atonement," nor can we " brand them as the blackest treason,"-using the phrase in its ordinary sense,-nor do we believe we "are a traitor at heart" because we recognize the sovereignty of the State as legitimate, rather than the despotism of a central government.
And in maintaining the right of Southern States to secede, as well as Northern States, we no more endorse as defensible or reasonable or just, the plea which they urge as the cause for secession, than we endorse the intemperance of a man who spends his wages in liquor, because we contend that he, as well as the sober man, is entitled to a day's wages for a day's work, and that without reference to the reason that induces him to work, or the manner in which he spends his wages.-Anti-Slavery Bugle.
For some comments upon the above, see our editorial columns.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1861.
TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF
THE AMERICAN A, S. SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be <illegible> in the Church of the Puritans, {Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on Tuesday, May 7, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7 o'clock. 
The Society will meet, for business purposes only, in the Lecture Room of the Church of the <illegible> at 31/2, P. M. on Tuesday, and at 10 A. Wednesday.
The object of this Society is still,-as at its formation,-the immediate and total abolition of slavery wherever existing on the American soil, because of its inherent sinfulness, immorality, oppression, and barbarity, and its utter repugnance to all the precepts of the Gospel, and all the principles of genuine Democracy; its measures are still the same, - peaceful, moral, rational, legal, constitutional; its instrumentalities are the same,-the pen, the press, the lecturing field, tracts and other publications, &c., &c., disseminating light and knowledge in regard to the <illegible> power claimed, possessed and exercised by slaveholders, the actual condition of their miserable victims, and the guilty complicity of the people of the North, religiously, politically, governmentally, with those who " trade in slaves and the souls of men"; its spirit is still the same, - long-suffering, patient, hopeful, impartial, benevolent alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, zealously intent on " "promoting the general welfare and securing the blessings of liberty'' universally, " knowing no East, no West, no North, no South," but embracing the whole country in its charitable and humane concern, and conflicting with nothing just, honest, noble and Christian in sentiment, practice or tendency. 
Whether the American Union, therefore, be dissolved or not, so long as a single slave is left in his fetters, this Society will still have its work unfinished, and will still deserve the countenance and aid of all believers in the inalienable rights of man-of all who " despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, and who reject with indignation the wild and guilty fantasy that man can hold property in man." Four millions yet remain to be delivered from the galling yoke of a worse than brutal servitude. Christians and patriots! can we do a nobler work, one more acceptable to God or more serviceable to our country and the world than to " remember those in bonds as bound with them," and to labor " in season and out of season " for their emancipation?
Let unusual efforts be made by the members and friends of the Society to be present at the approaching anniversary, that there may be no lack of wise counsel and efficient cooperation with reference to the consummation of its great purpose. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, }
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH,} Secretaries. 
THE NEW YORK (CITY) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will hold its anniversary in the Cooper Institute on WEDNESDAY evening, May 8th. Addresses by WENDELL PHILLIPS and THEODORE TILTON. Admittance 10 cents, to defray expenses. 
THE RIGHT OF SECESSION. 
Last week, we published a letter from an anti-slavery correspondent at the West, taking umbrage at our denouncing the Southern secessionists as guilty of perfidy, robbery and treason, and all those who, <illegable> brand them in the same manner, as "traitors at heart, and doubly to be detested if they pretend to have any concern for the preservation of the Union." The writer, to our surprise, made our language personal to himself, and " thanked God," (rather hotly,) that we were not his judge! Surely, he did not mean to justify the conduct of the seceding factionists: if he did, we have only to say that " he who abets the treason shares the crime": or if he denies that they have committed treason, then it is certain his political and ethical standard is wholly different from our own. But there must be some misunderstanding about this. 
In another column, we have copied an editorial article from the Anti-Slavery Bugle, calling in question the soundness of our strictures, and defending the course pursued by the seceders, under the plea of " State Sovereignty." The deeds characterized by us as " crimes of gigantic magnitude, admitting of no extenuation or atonement," the Bugle says, " would appear in a somewhat different light, if viewed from another stand-point." No doubt much depends upon a stand-point in regard to what may be revealed; but in matters pertaining to justice, honesty, and fair dealing, we were not aware of there being more than one stand-point, properly speaking. The Bugle adds: 
"Suppose that, instead of ignoring State sovereignty, we recognize it, and freely admit, what Disunion abolitionists have always contended for-the right of a State to secede. This right being admitted, it is not for Massachusetts or Ohio to authoritatively indicate to South Carolina or Georgia as to how much provocation will justify them in seceding; they may leave the Union ' on a pretence or a suspicion of foul play,' or for any other reason they choose to assign, or for no reason. None of these things affect the right of secession,-a right for which all Disunion abolitionists have consistently contended, until the Southern States have presumed to exercise it, not for the destruction of slavery, but for its perpetuation." 
We did not know before, that " Disunion abolitionists have always [or ever] contended for the right of a State to secede," on whatever grounds it might choose to select, " without cause, and for no reason "; and we think the records of the Anti-Slavery movement will be searched in vain to discover such a doctrine. Certainly, it is not a doctrine that has ever been advocated or countenanced by us; and we believe it to be wholly indefensible. Hence, when our pro-slavery opponents,-who disclaim what they are pleased to call the " ultraism" of the abolitionists, and pretend to be the most loyal of Unionists,-sneeringly represent us and the Southern " fire-eaters " as hail-fellows, who are fraternally shaking hands with each other, it reveals to us either arrant hypocrisy on the one hand, or gross ignorance on the other. If the treason of the South is only the disunionism of the abolitionists,-as the Bugle, to our astonishment, seems to argue,-then we have never truly apprehended the latter, and henceforth must utterly eschew it. But we deny that there is any resemblance or analogy between them; we deny that, between what the perfidious secessionists have done, and what the abolitionists have urged upon the North to do in general, or any State in special, there is any point of comparison. The parties stand at antipodes in their ideas of government, moral obligation, human relationship, individual or " State sovereignty." To represent them as acting upon the same plane, and giving countenance to each other, is to confound broad and eternal distinctions.
The Bugle, " as a Disunion abolitionist, recognizes the sovereignty of each State, and its consequent right to withdraw from the Union with or without cause." This is the doctrine of, and the defence made by the " fire-eaters," as against the General Government and the Constitution of. the United States; but it is very significant that no such right of secession is recognized in the Constitution of the Southern Confederacy, and that an attempt to secure its recognition was promptly voted down! Admit such a doctrine, and the Union is a rope of sand; agreements and pledges become worthless, because wholly baseless; the government is "neither here nor there." If, "without cause, and for no reason," any State may withdraw from the Union at any time, and seize upon
<c04>
whatever property it can find -within its limits belong-igbelonging to all the States under one general government, then there can be no fixed national policy, no reliable treaty-making power with other nations, no army or navy for the general defence, no sure national existence from one hour to another. At any moment, chaos may come again, and the elements " melt with fervent heat" 
The Bugle says-"South Carolina, believing she had a right to secede, seceded." We cannot admit any such thing; for we have no idea that she honestly cherished such a belief. She knows that there is no justification for her conduct-none whatever. She has an infernal purpose to accomplish, and, therefore, she has no scruples in resorting to the meanest, basest,, most perfidious, most treasonable measures in carrying it out. In nothing does she evince a consciousness of rectitude. The passions of her populace are "set on fire of hell"; a bloody despotism reigns throughout her borders; she is full of the habitations of cruelty; her pride is satanic, and her sway barbaric. She has always been a nuisance and a curse, demoniacally possessed, and ever loudly protesting that she was " tormented before her time." Where is her defence to be found? By what theory of government, worthy of the name, is she to be justified'! We know not justified? We know not. To talk of " State sovereignty," in" such a connection, is to us an absurdity. No "sovereignty absurdity, No " sovereignty " has a right to play the villain or buccaneer;' to subvert the simplest rule of morality; to make a single dishonest appropriation; to perpetrate a. single crime; unless, indeed, it is permissible to do evil on a gigantic scale that good may come. 
Again the Bugle says-" As a sovereign State, it was a duty (!) she owed to herself to obtain possession of all fortifications which she justly supposed would or might be used to obstruct her in the exercise of that right." (!) So she herself declares; and she also inquires, in the language of the Bugle, " why should she not obstruct the collection of revenue of her people by another government, fire upon a national steamship, and endeavor to sink it, strike down the American flag, and run up a State flag of defiance in its stead," &c. &c. That is to say, having taken the first step downward, why should she not take the second, third, fourth, and so on, ad infinitum! We admit that her villany is symmetrical; but from its inception to its culmination, it is alike detestable and treacherous.
treacherous. 
But, says the Bugle, " had Massachusetts seceded, she would probably have done the same thing." Then she would have been equally culpable. Two wrong-doers never yet made the wrong right. 
As if anxious to exonerate South Carolina from all blame, the Bugle represents her as collecting the revenue, " not for treasonable purposes, but to defend herself against a government that had assumed the right to make her a tributary province "!-adding, " we" -adding, "we recognize the sovereignty of the State as legitimate, rather than the despotism of a central government"! These imputations are warranted by nothing in the conduct of the general government towards South Carolina, or in their constitutional relations to each other. The former has never sought to make her " a tributary province," nor exercised any " despotism " over her. So far from this, it has up to this hour allowed her to have every thing her own way, and been as pliant as a wet rag in full view of her rapacious and treasonable acts! It has uttered no threats; it has fired no hostile gun, not even when its flag has been fired upon; it has not made a single arrest; it has tamely yielded to the forcible ejectment of its own legally appointed collectors of the customs; it has left the gallant Anderson and his little band to be hemmed in on all sides by hostile fortifications, and a foe more ferocious than savages, and more blood-thirsty than cannibals; it has " cried peace, peace, when there is no peace." We cannot conceive, therefore, what has got into the head of our Western coadjutor to make him regard South Carolina as acting on the defensive, and the general government as playing the despot over her! It the wolf, and she the lamb! 
With marked inconsistency, we think, the Bugle concludes its article as follows:- 
<illegible>cede as well as Northern States, we no more endorse as defensible, or reasonable, or just, the plea which they urge as the cause for secession, than we endorse the intemperance of a man who spends his wages in liquor, because we contend that he, as well as the sober man, is entitled to a day's wages for a day's work, and that, without reference to the reason that induces him to work, or the manner in which he spends his wages." 
It seems to us that this refutes all that precedes it, and covers the ground we occupy. Carolina's plea of secession is neither "defensible," nor "reasonable," nor "just"-no more than the intemperance of a man who spends his wages in liquor"! So we believe, so we affirm, and so we render judgment. But we do not see any pertinency of illustration, or analogy of reasoning, in the reference to the drunkard " being entitled to a day's wages for a day's work "- for we have never known that drunken Carolina has ever had any of her wages kept back on any pretence; on the contrary, she has constantly received vastly more than she has ever earned, and has always been a leech upon the national treasury-even now, though out of the Union as she declares, in common with the whole Southern Confederacy, meanly and fraudulently receiving her letters and papers at an enormous cost to the non-seceding States! 
Respecting the stolen property, the Bugle says- " The Confederate States wish to arrange with the old government for an equitable division of property, and for the assumption of their portion of the public debt. What proposition could be fairer than this? " To this we reply, first, we have seen no satisfactory evidence of this. Second, those States are incapable of accepting " an equitable division of property," for nothing do they hate or contemn so much as equity. Third, they will never pay for anything they have stolen. Fourth, they will add immensely to the national debt, instead of assuming a single farthing of it. They are not to be trusted in any promise they may make, nor recognized as governed by the principles of honor. Theirs is " the blackest treason," and without a parallel in the annals of " rebellion." "rebellion."
But, says the Bugle-"Buyle-" None of these thing stilings affect the right of secession-a right for which nilall Disunion abolitionists have consistently contended, until the Southern States have presumed to exercise it, not for the destruction of slavery, but FOR ITS PERPETUITY." How can there be any " right" to do anything to perpetuate slavery?slavery 1 Whence does such a " right" originate? What " sovereignty" is competent to exercise it? And if the abolitionists use their right " for the destruction of slavery," does it follow that the slaveholders have an equal right to seek tbethe perpetuity of " the sum of all villanies "? Is there no confusion of ideas here.here?
Of course, we attribute no intention of conniving at Southern villany on the part of our honored and long-tried coadjutor, whose Bugle-notes have hitherto been so clear and spirit-stirring, and whose standard has been so elevated andelevated.and uncompromising; but we think he has strangely confounded Northern disunionism with Southern treason, by a false view of " State sovereignty," and thus been led to write an article far more befitting the columns of the Charleston Mercury than his own, excepting the last paragraph. 
We shall show the difference between Northern Disunion and Southern Secession in another number. 
THE METROPOLITAN POLICE BILL REJECTED. In the Senate on Monday, the bill of <illegable> Whiting<illegible>Whiting for the organization of a Metropolitan Police in the city of Boston was discussed at length, and rejected by a vote of 7 to 21. Those who voted right-i. e., in the affirmative-were Messrs. Battles, Boynton, Clark, Day, Walden, Watson, Whiting. In the House, on Tuesday, a similar decision was arrived at. But this is only patting Mayor Wightmanputting Mayor Wight man and the City Authorities on their good behavior for another year. If they shall suppress mob rule, very well; if not, another session of the Legislature will apply the remedy. 
The Senate, on Tuesday, by the casting vote of the President, abolished the death penalty in this State.State, On Wednesday, the House non-concurred-74 to 58. 
<c05>
THE "SABLE OLOUD." CLOUD."
Dr.Dr, South-side Adams has written a new book, of 275 pages, with the above title, designed to enforce the ideas suggested in his " South-Side View of Slavery." It is designed as a book of argument, but, the material for argument upon that side being rather scanty, the work tois interwoven throughout with those appeals to the feelings which have given this author's devotional books such wide acceptance with his sect. Thus, insinivation, rather than argument, is the staple of the work. Dr. Adams is a Master is this art,practicein this art, I practice having done much towards making him perfect, although this book is not the best specimen of his skill. Of course, no inherent difficulty in the subject intimidates him. Moreover, his writings in both departments take a South-side view atof truth, placidly ignoring its limitations, and showing a thorough independence of them, both in rhetoric and argument.argument, Thus it may well happen that Dr. Adams's parishioners, (and others who assume him to be trustworthy, and thus simply receive, without scrutiny or comparison, what he has written,) may find this book a very satisfactory one. 
It opens with a letter-quite probably a real one- from the wife of a slaveholder, showing incidentally a genuine sympathy in some domestic affliction of some of her husband's slaves. It is just such a letter as Mrs. Shelby, in " Uncle Tom's Cabin," might have 
wrritten, though it does not show so intelligent an appreciation as hers of the real welfare of tbethe slave. It indicates feelings among some of the women of the south,South, the existence and the habitual manifestation of which have never been denied by abolitionists, and which have been repeatedly indicated by Mrs. Stowe in her anti-slavery tales, yet which do not in the slightest degree invalidate the representations made
made by that accurate delineator, and by the writers in these columns, of the very different disposition manifested by the great majority of slaveholders.
The purpose, however, of Dr. Adams, requires that he should misrepresent the abolitionists, and depreciate one of them so honored and so useful as Mrs. Stowe, and this he does with characteristic indirectness and disingenuousness.
In the second chapter, he delineates what he wishes to have understood as the impression received by an abolitionist from the sympathizing letter of the slave-holder's wife. Mr. A. Freeman North, the lay-figure whom he has manufactured to stand for an AntiSlavery Anti-Slavery man, is sorely puzzled by this letter. He speculates whether there can possibly be one such woman in the South (although the letter itself indicates no preference for slavery, and might have been written by one who wished her husband to separate himself from it). Then he conjectures forgery, and scrutinizes the post-mark and hand-writing of the letter. Then he elaborately calls up the memories of "the old New York Tabernacle," of " the modern Boston Music Hall," of " Uncle Tom's Cabin," and of its " Key," in contrast, as if any of these hadas
 assumed such a letter to be impossible or improbable. Then he begins to doubt whether his abolitionist teachers have been correct, as if this invalidated their correctness. Then he assumes that, if this letter is believed, the great party of freedom must necessarily go to pieces, and ".our Northern excitement against slavery cease," and begins to think if it can be suppressed. Then he falls into raptures over the
"our Northern excitement against slavery cease," and begins to think if it can be suppressed. Then he falls into raptures over the novel idea that some slaves have actually liberty to- select one spot novel idea that some slaves have actually liberty to-select one spot rather than another for the graves of their kindred-which is the portion of their felicity touched upon in this letter. Then he thinks of Paul's letter to Philemon, calling it-" a very trying epistle to us of the North." Then he utterly collapses under the remembrance of some expressions of humane feeling in the letter. Then he assumes that the 
abolitionists will tear and rend that beautiful letter, as a mad dog would "a cambric muslin handkerchief." And, in conclusion, partially recovering himself, he informs us that, though be disapproves the temper and language of the abolitionists, who differ from him
in social position and manners, yet he must confess that he sympathizes with them " in their nrinciDles." and must continue to do so in spite of a thousand such letters.
Though much of the eulogy upon slavery in this book is insinuated rather than asserted, it is by no means a non-committal work. It goes thoroughly and heartily, not only for the continuance, but for the extension of slavery, and, in the course of the book,
takes the following positions in regard to it:-
Dr. Adams assumes that the African race is an inferior race; that the slavehohling States present not only a Christian, but " a well-ordered state of society "; that the slaves of pious people-(a class represented by Frederick Douglass, who had a varied experience in.slavery, as the most oppressive class of masters)-"are better off than any separate class of laboring people on earth "; that setting the slaves free
at once " would be as unjust to them as it originally was to steal them from Africa "; that " ownership in man " is neither wrong in itself, nor likely to come to an end, while this world Lists; that slavery in this land has now " the prospect of being more firmly established than ever by means of our great national commotion on this subject"; that to hire the slaves as free laborers " would make them a far more 
degraded people than they now are "; that " the South, and their present relation to the white race, are the bounds of their habitation fixed for them by an all-wise God"; that if the slaves were made free, " they would fall into a degraded, serf-like condition but now each of them partakes of his master's interests, and rises with him "; that, " the colored people being here, their being owned is the very best possible thing for their protection "; that " there is no form or condition of service in the world which has more effect than slavery to keep families together "; that those Northern men who, like himself belong to a denomination in which many eminent clergymen have fallen into the
sin of licentiousness, should never " cast a stone at the South on that subject," - since " their clergy, their husbands, their young men, if they are no better, are not worse than we "; that the ownership of men and women which be has been defending, is accurately
thus denned-it is " a right to use, and to dispose of, the services of another, wholly at my will"; that even the application of the Golden Rule to the blacks does not require that we regard them as " on a level with but"; that "if the South could be relieved of Northern interference, the condition of the colored people would be greatly improved "; that " the only remedy is the entire abandonment by the North, of interference with this subject"; yet that "this cannot take place so long as the Northern people labor under their doctrinal error that it is a sin to hold property in man"; that, considering the prevalence of this error in the North, it is a very remarkable providential arrangement " that one book of the Bible, which was to be made known to all nations by the commandment of the everlasting God, for the obedience of faith, should be exclusively on the subject of slavery, and that the whole burden of the Epistle should be, The Rendition of a Fugitive Slave!" - that God
" ordains the subjection of one race to another, and makes bondage one of His ordinances as truly as war; "that one beneficial effect of slavery upon the masters is shown in the Southern gentleman's " reverence for the female sex"; and that, as to the slave, his
" abounding sustenance " solves the great problem which has always puzzled political economists and publicists "how to feed the lower classes") and that he is, moreover, " as thoroughly protected as any laborer in Europe! He is protected from every other man's wrong-doing by the ready interference of his master; be is guarded from the master's abuse by the laws of the land, and a vigilant, earnest public opinion."
The above is only a gleaning from the abundant harvest of thorough and hearty'advocacy of slavery contained in this book. Some further expressions of it will be noticed in another article.-c. K. W. 
 " What have the Abolitionists done? " Answer-read Secretary Floyd's admissions on our first page. 
<c06> 
THE LATEST NEWS FROM ST. DOMINGO
HAYTIAN BUREAU OF EMIGRATION,
BOSTON, APRIL 1st, 1861.
To the Editor of the Tribune:
SIR-I find in all the dispatches of the associated press, the following paragraph about Hayti and St. Domingo:-
"Great excitement existed in Havana on the subject of the Spanish annexation of St. Domingo. It appears that, during some time past, a process of colonization has been going on, by the introduction of large bodies of emigrants into the island, with the view of promoting Spanish interests, and consequent disaffection towards the republican government and, at the first sign of existence on the part of the native population, to invoke the aid of the Spanish government, This was accomplished on the 16th inst., when the Spanish flag was hoisted, much to the consternation of the black and native inhabitants. The Spanish frigate Banca was despatched from Havana on the 23rd, immediately on the receipt of the above news, fully armed and equipped, with a large numbers of regular troops on board, to assist in this Spanish protectorate, or, in other words, annexation.
The screw steam frigates Petronella and Barengnela were to follow as soon as possible, with about 5000 of the regular army. A large additional naval and military force, including some of the largest war vessels, and about 10,000 regular troops, is also reported as on the way form Spain to Cuba and the West Indies. By an arrangement with France, already consummated, it is said that Hayti is to share the fate of its sister republic."
This news is capable of an explanation, at once truthful and less alarming than the comments of the New York Daily Times, and the letter of your Havana correspondent.
As a vast majority of our citizens know nothing about Hayti and the Dominican Republic, excepting that both are inhabited by people of African descent, it may be necessary to state, that the island of St. Domingo or Hispaniola or Hayti, is held by two independent nationalities; that of the eastern part being known as the Dominican Republic, or oftener St. Domingo, or more frequently the Spanish part, and that of the west,(formerly called the French part,) being known as the Republic of Hayti. In the Dominican Republic, which has a population of 120,000, 
the people who are chiefly mulattoes, talk Spanish, and were formely subjects of Spain. Their ruler is President SANTANA, a man nearly white, whose sympathies, ideas and tendencies have all, and always, favored a re-union of his country to the unmotherly mother, the empire of Spain. In Hayti, which has a population variously estimated at form 100,000 to 120,000 the people speak French; they are the descendants of slaves, and of free colored people, who succeeded in throwing off the French domination. Their ruler is President GEFFRARD, who represents in his blood the three original races,-Indian, black and white,-and whose earnest aim is to establish a
powerful independent nationality, to be exclusively composed of me of African descent.
The Eastern part, or the Dominican Republic, was conquered by Toussaint L'Ouverture, having been previously ceded to France by Spain under the treaty of Basle, but never formally deluivered over to that power. Toussaint had not quite completed its subjugation, when Le Clerc's ex[edition arrived, and recalled him to the West. During the war between the Haytians and the French, which followed the disembarkment of these troops of Napoleon,(who were sent to reenslave the blacks, and were ignominiously defeated in the attempt,) the 
Eastern past the Spanish annexation of St. Domingo, it appears that, during some time past, a process of colonization has been going on, by the introductions of large bodies of emigrants into the island, with the view of promoting Spanish interests and consequent dissatisfaction towards the republican government, and at the first sign of existence on the part of the native population, to invoke the aid of the Spanish government, This was accomplished on the 16th inst., when the Spanish flag was hoisted, much to the consternation of the black and native inhabitants. The Spanish frigate Banca was dispatched from Havana on the 23d, immediately on the receipt of the above news, fully armed and equipped, with a large number of regular troops on board, to assist in this Spanish protectorate, or, in other words annexation.
The screw steam frigates Petronella and Barenguela were to follow as soon as possible with about 5000 of the regular army. A large additional naval and military force, including some of the largest war vessels, and about 10,000 regular troops, is also reported as on the way from Spain to Cuba and the West Indies. By an arrangement with France, already consummated, it is said that Hayti is to share the fate of its sister republic."
This news is capable of an explanation at once truthful and less alarming than the comments of the New York Daily Times, and the letter of your Havana correspondent.
As a vast majority of our citizens Know nothing about Hayti and the Dominican Republic, excepting that both are inhabited by people of African decent, it may be necessary to state, that the island of St. Domingo, or Hispaniola or Hayti, is held by two independent nationalities; that of the eastern part being known as the Dominican Republic, or oftener St. Domingo, or more frequently the Spanish partm and the of the west, (formerly called the French part,) being known as the Republic of Hayti. In the Dominican Republic, which has a population of 120,000 the people, who are chiefly mulattoes, talk Spanish, and were formerly subjects of Spain. Their ruler is President SANTANA, a man nearly white, whose sympathies ideas and tendencies have all, and always favored a re-union of his country to the unmotherly mother, the empire empire of Spain. In Hayti, which has a population variously estimated at from 100,000 to 120,000 the people speak French; they are the descendants of slaves, and of free colored people, who succeeded a throwing off the French domination. Their ruler a President GEFFRARD, who represents in his blood the three original races,-Indian, black and white,- and whose earnest aim is to establish a powerful independent nationality, to be exclusively composed of men of African descent.
The Eastern part, or the Dominican Republic, was conquered by Toussaint L'Ouverture, having been previously ceded to France by Spain, under the treaty of Basle, but never formally delivered over to that power. Toussaint had not quite completed its subjugation, when Le Clerc's expedition arrived, and recalled him to the West. During the war between the Haytians and the French, which followed the disembarkment of these troops of Napoleon, (who were sent to reenslave the blacks, and were ignominiously defeated in the attempt,) the Eastern part was again put under the power of Spain, and was thus held till 1821, when a revolution overthrew its authority.
In 1821, the Eastern part was united to Hayti, then governed by President Boyer. For twenty-two years the whole island acknowledge his authority. On his overthrow, in 1844, the Dominicans "seceded,"and1822, the Eastern part was united to Hayti, then governed by President Boyer. For twenty two years the whole island acknowledged his authority. On his overthrow, in 1844, the Dominicans "seceded," and no "reconstruction" with either Spain or Hayti has as yet been effected.
Since the independence of the Dominican Republic, two parties have divided and alternately governed it, whose representative men are Sanatana and Baez, as the words reunion and independence indicate their respective policies.
Unlike <illegible>, Santana would rather be a little man in a great country,. than a great man in a little country. Twice he has formally offered to place the Dominican Republic under the Spanish crown; and, failing in these attempts, he coquetted for a similar purpose with France, and then for a confederate union with Venezuela. But none of the powers would accept his proposals. France and Spain had been bitten once, and were satisfied with that experience, and Venezuela did not want to be bitten at all. His last desperate effort was to induce a white emigration from the United States; but, although seconded by our Consuls there, (Whose longer continuance(whose longer coninuance in office will be disgraceful to our Republican Administration,)Re-publican Administration.) I he signally failed to interest either our capitalists or I laborers in the project. 
Some years ago-what I say now is drawn from Hayti an official sources-Santana borowed a million of dollars from Spain. Failing to repay in it according to the terms of the loan, he offered to give a mortgage on the Custom Houses. Last summer, accordingly, a small band of Spaniards-not more than eighty in all -arrivedin all-arrived at St. Domingo, and three officials among them immediately entered on their duties as collectors at the ports. The rest were mechanics. That is all the "emiration" a all the "emigration " that has been sent to the Dominican Republic by Spain. There has been a small emigration from South America; but this tide, with itss flux and reflux, is as old as the independence of the Spanish colonies; for, whenever there is a revolution in Venezuela, or the adjoining countries, numbers o0f the banihsed of the banished seek a home in the Dominican Republic.
This policy of Santana furnished the materialnatural for creating an effective union among the oppositions to his government. "See! he is selling the country to do the whites!" Even as early as last December, revolutionary circulars and proclamations were in type St. Domingo; and a copy of the proofs, I know, were shown to a distinguished ambassador at it Paris. But this project was nipped in the bud; and Baer is still Baez is <illegible> an exile. The intrigues of the opposition continusing and increasing, Santana has called for aid-first, in order to secure the perpetuity of his own government and secondly, to enable him to repay the loan.
This, I venture to say, is "the sum total of the whole " hubbub that we hear from Havana.
These facts being unknown to the reporters of the Associated Press and the Cuba correspondents, it is not astonishing that they should surmise,(it is given only as a supposition,)surmise, [it is gives only as a supposition.) that France would seize Hayati as they think that Spain has seized the Dominican Republic. The notion that Haytians would then be reenslaved would be quite pathetic, if it was not quite so absurd.
There are various reasons why France will never threaten Hayti-among them, these:-
She has recognized the independence of Hayti.
Hayti She draws a large revenue from to Hayti, as her payment for recognizing that independence.
She is bound by treaty to defend Hayti against all foreign attacks; and, lastly,
She could not attack Hayti without first declaring war against England.
I might add to these reasons two others-first, that the experience of Napoleon, called the Great, conclusively proves that France could not conquer Hayti if she were to try; and, secondly, that Napoleon, called the Little, is too shrewd a statesman to voluntarily attempt to defy the moral sentiment of Christendom and the physical power of England combined, when even if he were successful in conquering both, the possession of Hayti would not begin to balance the expenses of governing it. Algiers, near at hand, Madagascar, easy of conquest, are more inviting fields for his ambition than Hayti, the cemetery of the flower of his uncle's greatest army.
I have also official authority for stating that, last January, England and France offered to be the mediators of a treaty of alliance and of defence between Hayti and the Dominican Republic, by which the <illegible> of the Territory of both countries against all foreign powers is guaranteed.
The proposition was accepted; commissioners
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
named to conclude the treaty; and, when it is signed, France and England stand pledged to enforce it.
But, even if France did not stand thus pledged is it likely that England would permit her to seize Hayti, in violation of the laws of nations, and of her own treaty stipulations? Never! For Hayti, in the hands of a first class power, would command the Gulf; and the Mole St. Nicholas, by the expenditure of a few thousands of dollars, could easily be made a second Gibraltar. England would not permit her trade with Jamaica to be thus imperilled.
Again: Napoleon, although a traitor and a perjurer, is a far-sighted ruler. He knows the American people and does not care to rouse them. He knows, too, that events are far stronger than articles, and that, although our President's hands may now be tied by the Constitution, and treason flourish in consequence thereof, yet circumstances may compel him to appeal to the North, which, once unshackled, would sweep with the besom of destruction all the Cotton States into the Gulf, at a quicker rate than Christ drove the devils (Who seceded into swine) into the sea.
Respectfully,
JAMES REDPATH.

SOUTHERN SOCIETY AND GOVERNMENT.
It is curious to notice the many attempts made by prominent men in the South to argue out the divinity which, it is alleged, gives inspiration to slavery, Fancies as numerous as winged insects in mid-summer seem to play about the Southern brain. The defence of slavery at the South is no less an institution than slavery itself, and Southern wit has taxed its utmost energies to shield the conscience against the censure of frowning humanity.
Once slavery was but a bud which the best honestly believed would drop from the parent stock ere it could mature. Contrary to expectation, it bloomed and ripened into bitter fruit Once it was only to be tolerated even by its supporters; now it is to be made essential to the existence of the highest form of society Once a hateful hag, hell-born; now a seraph robed in light. Once but the harsh clash of capital and labor; now the strong arm of friend and benefactor stretching over the unfortunate; majestic strength weeping over ill-proportioned weakness; Christian and heathen, superior and inferior, as ordained of God, European and African, master and slave, in beautiful juxtaposition!
In the attempt to convince themselves and the world that this delightful conclusion comes legitimately of reason, all disturbing forces in the process must be removed. Democracy must be carefully eliminated. Ideas of popular sovereignty must be cast out, that the relation so natural between white and black shall be more completely harmonized. Mr. Spratt, in his plea for the legalization of the slave trade of South Carolina, says one white master answers to one African slave, and cancels the democratic element which conflicts so mercilessly with the best form of society. One million of white, and half this number of black men, will not do. The first approach to perfection is equality in number. The next step is to increase the proportion of blacks at pleasure, till at length the great and glorious Southern Confederacy, ultimately to be established somewhere under a tropical sun, may amount to forty millions. This number of African slaves, with only a million of masters, would be a model community, once freed from a disorganizing democracy. The proposition is simply, that there shall be as many or more slaves than masters.
Having settled upon this for a social systema result of the efforts of nature the next step is to erect the political system. Based as the State is on this nice adjustment, so fruitful of good economy and so productive of wealth, circumstances are, of course, favorable to the birth and growth of a model class of men. Wealth and leisure insure the high culture of the best-born, and hence comes a legitimate aristocracy, out of which are to flow elegance, fashion, refinement, and the governing power. The less fortunate of birth and rank, though none the less masters and protectors of the unfortunate slaves within their own Precincts, are naturally doomed to be governed; and thus, in this glorious confederacy, we get a reproduction of the patrician, plebeian and slave.
It is to be observed that no thought of freedom to the slave is ever to be indulged for a moment. Master and slavethis is Heaven-ordained. This we are to take for granted, as the basis on which the whole the whole structure is to rest. Not so much as a hint of the lack of a support of capital, or the possibility that labor can exist in any other form than that of slave One is tempted to demand proof of the premises, before proceeding to read the argument
Of course, it does not he within the province of this school of political economists and philosophers to consider the moral aspect of this state of things; the simple assumption is, that Africans are inevitably and essentially slaves, and the great mass of white men, though masters of slaves, must be ruled by a governing class, who enjoy the prerogative of holding and dispensing rights at will. It is not even hinted that there is any possibility that the status of the slave can ever be changed. His office, like a foundation-wall, consists in perpetually imbedding himself, and all his natural rights, to form a support to the political structure which is ever to rest on it. Slavery is the hand: the mass of white men the directing head. The governing class, high up and aloof, uses the latter as means to its own princely support.
Golden visions like this float over the imaginations of prominent secessionists, and shape their action Not, as they say, to be practically carried out till they not only dissolve their connection with the North by the present revolution, but by the expulsion of democracy from among themselves by still another revolution a necessary labor to be performed before this model society can stand erect.
The difficulty with this school of politicians is, that they start on assumption and fallacy. They have never dreamed of proving their premises. They pretend to logic and philosophy; but, the truth is, they are only special pleaders. They have trained their intellects so long in the service of Southern statute law, and the peculiar property which it protects, and self will has become so strong by possession of irresponsible powerto domineer is so fixed a habitit is impossible that the possessors should be able to form any just view of either a social or political system that shall not owe its excellence to the degradation of the mass of the people. Born and brought up under a system which tolerates an unbounded exercise of mere selfish power over the weak, must surely unfit the mind for a rational investigation of the Principles of social and political science. By aid of such perverted mental vision, facts as they exist cannot, in the first place, be properly perceived, much less can any theories arising from such a source be worthy the attention of thinkers. Such a cast of habit and thought must necessarily culminate in a tyrannical nature, and any government conceived in such a spirit must necessarily be despotic. They give us fancies for facts. So well trained are they to the art of convincing an opponent, that, having secured your assent to the first position, they will reason you with lightning speed to every point of the compass, and make you stick fast in the mire. These are the men who, by every disgraceful means, plot the overthrow of the United States Government, because they can no longer manage it; and demand its complete humiliation, that they and their insane theories may rise above its ruins. How far they will succeed remains to be seen.
With such divergent views between the two sections of the country, how can any rational man indulge the hope that there can, by any possibility, be anything like a union among us? Between the Free and Slave States, there are two essentially opposite and conflicting ideas, and all the powers in earth and hell cannot reconcile them. One or the other must finally triumph. Which shall it be? W.
We conclude, this week, the very able dissertation of Karl Heinzen, entitled' The People and the State; or, the Unitarian State and the Federative State. Read it carefully. [See our last page.]
<c02>
ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
Taking it for granted that the District of Columbia is forever abandoned as the capital of the nation, allowing that several of the States have seceded from the Union, two questions will arise in the public mind.
FirstShall the remaining States be loyal to the Constitution, and shall they enter into negotiations with the seceded States, and recognize under certain stipulations their withdrawal from the Union? Or,
SecondShall the old confederation make war upon and force the new republic, monarchy, or whatever it may be, to submit to its terms, and acknowledge the superiority of its national power?
To answer these questions concisely, it must be borne in mind that there is no natural basis of union between the two sections. One is interested in the maintenance of free labor, and the other must, for a season at least, use forced or slave labor. These must war with one anotherboth cannot exist together. One belongs to the South, the other to the North. The interests of the employers are, and forever must be, diverse; and as one lives, thrives, and comes into power, the other is weakened, languishes, and dies. It is clear to every intelligent political economist what the fate of the slave institution is. Heaven cannot smile upon them. God has no attribute which can take sides with the slaveholder."
No doubt the defenders of the slave system expect to perpetuate it by secession; but all efforts in that direction must fail to meet the end aimed at. The dissolution of the American Union is the destruction of the slave system. This being so, every lover of his kind must rejoice that an event so desirable is at the door. Let it comethe sooner the better. It should be urged on, rather than retarded, by all who have the welfare of the poor and oppressed at heart. True union is desirable. Peace should be sought; but these great blessings must not be placed above eternal justice. Justice must be done, let the cost be what it may. "Let the Union slide," then, without anxiety, without a tear. It is an event that must come. Better now than at a later day. The fathers should not leave this work to their children. They will have enough to do in their time, for the question of peaceable secession is to start other political, moral and religious questions. Disunion has come in the best time, and in Heaven's appointed way. The North does not leave the South, but the latter withdraws from the former. But the South does not choose to go out of the Union poor. She seizes upon the national forts, arsenals, navy yards, ships of war; and the Southern mint does not escape her notice. What shall be done? Shall the North fight for these, and drench American soil with blood? By no means. Let the South have what she has seized, and let her bear all the ignominy which shall be heaped upon her by all the nations of the earth. From this hour, let it be seen that she is not only guilty of piracy, but that she has seized upon property held in common by the family of States; and, in time, she will see herself as others see her. If the nations of the earth make war upon her in her weak, distracted state, she cannot reasonably expect assistance from those she has robbed; and it is quite certain that the North would be in no haste to return the slave to his master, even though a case were sustained on the plca that "labor or service was due."
But if the South has left the Union, where is the Federal Government? Has it an existence? Where are its courts? Where its navigable rivers? Where its custom houses? Where its capital? Where its post office? And of what use can the patent laws hereafter be? The whole thing has virtually fallen to pieces. There is no Constitution, and there is no geographical union of the nation: it is but a rope of sand. National chaos has come. Lincoln cannot be regarded as the President of the United States. Congress cannot act, and the Capital must be forever for saken. But what if these things are so? Are there not skill, wisdom, and a deep love of union sufficient to construct a new and a better government than any that now exists on this earth? Let the trial be made. The President elect is without power, without a dollar to sustain his government. The American treasury is at this moment bankrupt. The Union, so called, cannot pay its honest debts. Sherman may seek to replenish it, but who cares to advance money now? Seward, Hale, Crittenden, Adams and Sumner would be paupers to-day, had they not private resources on which to draw. There is nothing, then, to expect from the old Union. The work to be done is to construct a new and a NORTHERN REPUBLIC; and that Republic must omit, in all its basis papers, both the words male and white, else it will be a weak, rickety thing, and will " fall asunder like flax at the touch of fire." Neither women nor negroes will much longer submit to laws that they do not frame; neither will they consent to pay taxes while they are shut off from the ballot-box 
Men of all colors being admitted to an equality of right, it being agreed that woman shall take her place in the councils of the nation, there may be procedure to issue a declaration of sentiments. That work could be better done by WM. LLOYD GARRISON than by any other American writer. When a Declaration is agreed on, it will not be difficult to frame a Constitution. Charles Sumner, Wm. H. Seward, assisted by Bates of Missouri, could do that work in less than a month from the time it was committed to their hands. As for the post office, the Government need take no trouble about that. Adams, with his vast express machinery, would take due care of that. He now runs his express in less than four days from New Orleans to New York, while the United States mail covers seven days. There is no good reason why the American people should not send all their packages and letters to suit themselves, without let or hindrance from the Government. As for the patent office, it has become a most oppressive monopoly, and should be abolished; and the shrewd inventor will manage his own affairs without protection from the nation. The custom-house will not be wantedtrade will be free taxation will be directand the harbors requiring light-houses or light-boats will be supplied by the States which need them. In short, much of the machinery that was needful to the old confederation will not be called for by the new. In a future number, I shall take opportunity to speak of the structure of a government, such as the world now needs.
S. M. J.

THE WESTERN FIELD.
BOURBON, (Ind.) March 27, 1861.
TO THE EDITOR:
Marshall and Kosciusko counties, where I have spent the last month, were, thirty years ago, an unbroken wilderness, inhabited by a remnant of the tribe of Miamis, who have disappeared before the white man's civilization, with the exception of one neighborhood, seven or eight miles in extent, now under the culture of the Baptist Home Missionary Society. These Indians are sober, honest and kind. They are thrifty, but I am told have no interest in American politics.
The soil of this part of the State of Indiana is superior to any I have seen, supporting, in great abundance, large and healthy timber, mostly oak, walnut and poplar. It is not uncommon to see poplars sixty feet high, without limbs. The railroad (Chicago, Fort Wayne and Pittsburg) gives these new settlers an advantage over their neighbors, as they can sell, instead of burning, all their timber. The oaks are carried at full length, for ship timber, and the walnut goes east, for furniture. I am told that Warsaw, the county seat of Kosciusko, ships on the road more lumber than any other town between Chicago and Pittsburg.
The farmers already raise cattle and grain in abunbance, have tolerable fencing and passable roads, but few good houses and orchards.
The school system, if indeed there is such a system here, is wretchedly incomplete; owing in part to the bankrupt condition of the State treasury, and, in other respects, to the inappreciation of education among the people. The State of Indiana has recorded a strking
<c03>
lesson of the dominance of a few ignorant, jobbing politicians, who, to carry on "Internal improvements"internal to the pockets of the few, but impoverishing to the purses of the manyinvolved the State in heavy liabilities, from which, though she has sold part of those improvements, as she had before disposed of most of her credit, she is not yet able to extricate herself, and will remain tethered to the ground, until the energies of the people develop from their own hidden resources a system of politics in which common honesty is not wholly ignored.
In these counties they have common schools six or eight months in the year, and the loss of the high school is in part made up by literary and lyceum associations, in which manhood as well as mind receives culture. Among the young men of these associations are minds that would be creditable to a much older country, before whom superstition and error will ere long lose its authority. Already the hungry horde of ministers besetting this new countrya questionable exchange for those other beasts of (pray) prey that fied before the face of man-tremble at the personal independence asserted by these associations.
But when you get beyond the lyceum, the only free institution in our country, you have seen the sunset of civilization.
Within five miles of Warsaw, the capital of the county where I last week held a meeting, before inviting me to her hospitality, the hostess inquired, aside, whether or not I was a woman. "They say," said she, "no woman ever talked as she talks, and I never knew one talk at all." She was terribly religious.
In discussing the question of amending the Constitution, to authorize the abolition of slavery, at Etna Green, a Jack-at-a-pinch Justice refused to vote in its favor, because, he said, he had "taken his stand on the Chicago platform, the platform of the Fathers, and the platform of non-intervention "! I was told that, in view of his ponderous public functions, he practised elocution, previous to his election, in the old Demosthenean style. Standing upon the bank of a deserted mill-pond, he challenged the ancestral knights of Frogdom in this wise: " Fellow-Citizens, Frogs of both sexesIn the name of the Constitution and of the Chicago platform, I have a right to be heard." My informant says it was a dreadful encounter, but the meed was won, and the loyal knights have not yet peeped."
At Plymouth, county seat of Marshall county, the Methodist minister asked an interest in the prayers of his church for Mr. Lincoln The pro-slavery Democrats took it in high dudgeon, and seriously proposed to withdraw. The church was refused for an anti-slavery meeting, on the ground that they "have already disturbance enough."
The editor of the Republican paper here was requested to publish J. R. Giddings's article on "The Fugitive at Cleveland; "and though he is prodigiously anti-slavery, no notice of this, or of the anti-slavery meeting, has yet appeared. His column of "Local News" shows, however, that he has an acute eye to small things.
At a meeting in the Methodist Church at Bourbon, the circuit minister uttered his solemn protest against political meetings on the Lord's day, and in the house of God, and declared himself shocked and amazed at the mixing up of the names of Jesus and Seward in the pulpit. A vote to amend the Constitution so as to authorize Congress to abolish slavery passed unanimously over the head of this pious Democrat, supported by his brothers in the ministry, several of whom were present, and his church generally, including class leaders and new converts. The itinerant system is, to this minister, his only forlorn hope.
The local preacher of Franklin refused the use of the Methodist church, last evening, as, he said, several of the members "believe slavery is right"; and the minister declared he would take up arms sooner than abolish slavery, and allow the "niggers" to come to Indiana. The large school-house was opened, and many who could not come in, heard through the open windows.
The state of the weather and of the roads has nothing to do with audiences here. The Government and the Church are in a siege against humanity, and the people, who know it, are invulnerable 
The flying visit of that able and faithful advocate of unconditional emancipation, Marius R. Robinson, has left an indelible impression upon this community The doctrine of Disunion, which he taught as a means to abolish slavery, has with this people so little terror, that scarcely a man can be found to deny the right of the South to secede, while I hear many declare that they would shoulder a musket to prevent her return.
I have thrown together these few incidents of a month to give you a just idea of an average aspect of the great Northwest. But, most important for your notice is the fact, that in nearly every meeting that has been held in these two counties, the people have given almost unanimous and enthusiastic votes in favor of abolishing slavery in the States as well as in the Territoriesand have largely signed the petition to amend the Constitution accordingly.
Agents are here, receiving generous contributions for suffering Kansas. There is a great mania here for building churches, and funds are being raised for a College in Marshall county. The people in this new country earn their money, and have but little of it. In view of all these difficulties, my collections are small. A few have been induced to take anti-slavery papers, and I am sure a month here has not been misapplied, and so thinks Elisha Erwin, the standard bearer here.
Truly,
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFING.
TWELVE SERMONS, delivered at Antioch College, by HORACE MANN. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1861.
The sermons constituting this neatly printed volume were written and delivered while Mr. Mann was President of Antioch College. They embrace the following topics:1. God's Being, the Foundation of Human Duty. 2. God's Character, the Law of Human Duty. 3. God's Law, the Principle of Spiritual Liberty. 4. Sin, the Transgression of the Law. 5. Testimony against Evil a Duty. 6 and 7.The Prodigal Son. 8. Temptation. 9. Retribution. 10. The Kingdom of Heaven. 11. Immortality. 12. Miracles. They are all highly instructive, and exhibit that co piousness and felicity of illustration, that closeness of reasoning, and that power of expression, which characterized nearly all that came from the pen of Mr. Mann, whether occupying the arena of political life, the office of Secretary of the Board of Education, or his last position as the President of Antioch College. This publication is a solid service rendered to the cause of religion and morality.
THE STRUGGLE OF THE HOUR: A Discourse delivered at the Paine Celebration in Cincinnati, January 29,1861 By Orson S. Murray.
This Discourse, with an Appendix, occupies 68 octavo pages. It relates mainly to the tremendous conflict between Freedom and Slavery now going on in the land, and deals with men and institutions in a bold and scathing manner. Particular attention is paid to William H. Seward and his whiffling policy since the election of Abraham Lincoln, and the lash applied with merited severity. For a long time we have read nothing more racy or pungent. We shall find room for some extracts hereafter. In the earliest and most trying period of the Anti-Slavery cause, Mr. Murray first as a Baptist minister, next as an editor of a Baptist journalwas for several years conspicuous in it, doing it "yeoman service," both with his pen and voice. Since then, he has passed through various "dispensations "; but, however eccentric or divergent his course, or conflicting or startling his abstract speculations; he has always exhibited manly independence, a disposition fearlessly to "prove all things," and a humane and liberty-loving spirit. It is a long time since he has spoken so directly and strongly upon this subject, the abolition of all' gods' having occupied his attention more than the abolition of chattel slavery. He is always earnest and sincere.
<c04>
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE.
FEDERAL RELATIONS,
Majority and Minority Reports on Amending the Federal Constitution.
A RESOLVE FOR A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
The Committee on Federal Relations, to whom were referred the resolves of the General Assembly of Indiana, proposing a National Convention, reported the following resolve:
Resolved, That while we regard the Constitution of the United States, if properly interpreted and duly enforced, as amply sufficient to secure the just rights of the people of all the States of the Union, still, as dissatisfaction and misunderstanding have arisen, respecting the proper interpretation of that instrument, the Congress of the United States is hereby requested to call a Convention of the several States, in accordance with the 5th article of the Constitution thereof, to take into consideration the propriety of amending the same, so that its meaning may be definitely understood, in all sections of the Union.
The Committee on Federal Relations, to whom was referred a resolve of the Congress of the United States, approved March 2d, 1861, entitled "Joint Resolution to Amend the Constitution of the United States," reported as follows:-
REPORT.
The proposed amendment is as follows:
"No amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or give to Congress the power to abolish or interfere within any State with the domestic institutions thereof, including that of persons held to labor or service, by the laws of said State."
The principles upon which the General Government was established are well understood. It was intended for the general purposes of protection to the several States within its jurisdiction, leaving to the individual States all powers of sovereignty and rights of legislation not necessary to the objects for which that Government was instituted. Included in the rights thus reserved to the States, is the absolute control over all their domestic institutions. This is evident from the letter and spirit of the Constitution. It is universally admitted that the several States have exclusive jurisdiction over the system of involuntary servitude within their respective limits. Under the Constitution of the United States, the General Government has no authority over, or responsibility for, the existence of slavery in the United States, and no State has the right, in any manner, to interfere with the system in any other State. The States upon this subject are as much independent of each other as they would have been had the people not delegated any power of sovereignty to the General Government. Massachusetts has no more authority over slavery in South Carolina than she his over any domestic institution of any nation in Europe, and consequently has no responsibility for its continued existence. The Committee believe that the people of Massachusetts, and of the other free States, concur in these opinions. But it is evident that these opinions are misunderstood by many people in the slave States, and it was undoubtedly for the purpose of removing all doubts and cause of dissatisfaction upon this subject that this amendment to the Constitution has been proposed by Congress, and submitted to the Legislatures of the several States for their ratification or rejection. But in the opinion of the Committee, due deference to the people requires that it should not be passed upon by the Legislature, without an opportunity being given for an expression of the popular will of the same; and as this amendment has been proposed since the election of the members of the present Legislature, and as the public exigencies in their opinion do not require an immediate decision, they prefer that the question should be determined by a Legislature elected with a knowledge of the people of the pendency of the question. The Committee are, also, of opinion that the better mode of considering amendments to the Constitution is through the instrumentality of a National Convention. They have accordingly reported a resolution, requesting Congress to call a Convention of the several States for the purpose of considering the propriety of amending the Constitution so that its meaning may be definitely understood in all sections of the Union. If such a Convention shall be called, it will supersede the necessity of any action upon the proposed amendment by the Legislature. The Committee would therefore recommend the reference of the subject to the next General Court.
Senate: WM. D. NORTHEND, Committee.
Senate: GEO. T. DAVIS, Committee.
House: J.F. PHILLIPS, Committee.
House: P.H. BURNHAM, Committee.
MINORITY REPORT.
During the last few months, the aims and intentions of the Slave Power have been more fully developed than at any former period. It is now clear to every unprejudiced mind that this power either intends to possess the Government of these United States or to annihilate it. The Free States have conceded to the claims of slavery time after time for the last forty years, and yielded point after point under the plausible term "compromise." Every new concession has paved the way for a new demand. Every new demand has been, at first, boldly resisted as a thing too unjust to be listened to; then it has been feebly argued for on the score of policy, and finally submitted to as a necessity, for the sake of peace. The Missouri Compromise in 1820 was forced upon the reluctant North by threats and bravado. The annexation of Texas, and the consequent Mexican war, were also forced upon us by the Slave Power. Then followed the finality measures of 1850, the legalizing of slavery in Utah and New Mexico, and that gentle infliction upon a Christian community, the Fugitive Slave Ac,a compromise on the part of freedom, where power was the thing given, and degradation the equivalent received, Then followed the era of assumptions: the Kansas and Nebraska Bill, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the claiming of the opinion of the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott case as a decision. None of these measures has the Slave Power attempted to justify as compromises. They are all high-handed assumptions, forced by a factious minority upon a timid and yielding majority.
Some years ago, Massachusetts asked the Slave States to grant her a hearing in their Courts, in respect to the constitutionality of those laws by which they claimed the right to search our coasting vessels and imprison our citizen sailors. What was the result? They drove back our agents unheard, by threats, reproaches and insults. The Slave Power commands us to modify our Personal Liberty Law, and forthwith we modify it. Thus have we gone on conceding, yielding, submitting, till we have become bankrupt, till we have nothing more to yield outside of the Constitution. Hence we are required to commence the work of demolition upon the Constitution itself. The Constitution of the United States is the work of our revolutionary fathers. It was framed, as its preamble asserts, to establish justice, and secure the blessings of liberty. Although the institution of slavery existed in some of the States at the time of the formation of this Constitution, yet so perfect is its construction, that slavery might utterly fade out, in every State of the Union, and still every provision of this skilfully drawn instrument be needed for the government of free and confederate States. The future historian will search the letter of the Constitution, in vain, to find a line that necessarily implies that man can, under its provisions, lawfully hold property in man. The Constitution of the United States was the result of mutual concessions on the part of the different States confederated under it. The people of this Union have been taught by the leading statesmen of all parties, to regard the Constitution as sacred. The Democratic party, especially, have claimed it as the very palladium of our liberties. The Supreme Court of the United States has been regarded as the authoritative expounder of controverted constitutional provisions, and its decisions have ever been acquiesced in with deferential respect, by Massachusetts, whether these decisions coincided with her State policy and interest, or otherwise; whilst on the contrary, the Slave States have been willing to submit to the decisions of the Court, only when such decisions were supposed to favor their own peculiar State policy and interest.
Under this Constitution, the country has prospered in a degree heretofore unparalleled in the history of the race. Our Democratic friends, whilst in power, professed to regard the Constitution of the United States as the most perfect instrument of government that ever had been or ever would be framed and put into operation by the wisdom and ingenuity of man. Their greatest fear seemed to be that the Republicans, on the other hand, vied with the Democrats, in asserting their veneration for the Constitution, and their sacred regard for its provisions. The sectional party, organized and controlled by the Slave Power, was defeated, last November, by the popular vote which elected Mr. Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States. Mr. Lincoln was known to be a believer in the great truths of the Declaration of Independence. He was also known to be a disbeliever in the practical maxim of the Slave Power, to wit:that slavery is the corner stone of our Republican institutions, and that the chief duty of the General Government is to extend the domain of slavery. Suddenly, a change is wrought in the views of almost an entire political party. The Constitution that had been proclaimed to be so sound, so fit and proper to be administered by the Slave Power, is now regarded as an instrument dangerous and unfit to be administered by a Republican President The Constitution must he be remodelled, new guarantees must be given to the slave interests, or the Union must be; dissolved. And though Congress hastened with unwonted zeal to appoint compromise and concession committees, and Virginia called a Peace Convention of the Statesyet, State after State raised the standard of rebellion, till seven States had seceded,
<c05>
and six of these seven had proclaimed themselves organized under a new confederacy, and now stands with arms in hand, defiant to the Government and the Constitution of the United States. Under these circumstances, Congress, by a constitutional majority, asks the States to pass a vote upon the following proposed amendment to the Constitution.
[See the foregoing part of the majority report.]
The undersigned feel that there are serious objections to the adoption of this proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States, a few of which they beg leave briefly to state: First. It introduces a new feature into the Constitution itself. Our fathers believed the human race to be progressive, and hence left every part of the Constitution open to amendment. The proposed amendment, if 'adopted, makes the Constitution unalterable in one of its provisions, at least Second. The term, "domestic institutions," is very broad in its meaning, embracing institutions educational, reformatory, and retrogressive Suppose, for instance, some State should fall so far back into barbarism as to adopt a system of cannibalism or polygamy, would a Christian nation bind itself never to interfere with such "domestic institutions"? Third. This is no time to initiate constitutional amendments, when several of the States stand in the attitude of rebellion to the Constitution itself. Fourth. Massachusetts has ever been faithful to the Constitution of the United States, and intends to be faithful to all its provisions Her self-respect, therefore, forbids her to concede amendments to that Constitution under the threats of her sister States. Fifth If this amendment grants nothing, except what is already in the Constitution, as some of its friends affirm, then it is superfluous, and ought not to be adopted. Sixth. If this amendment gives new guarantees to slavery, as many suppose, then the State policy of Massachusetts, as treasured in her early history, as set forth in her Bill of Rights, as expressed in her oft-repeated resolves, as embodied in her heroic deeds for freedom, as emblazoned on her monumental battle-fields, demands of this Legislature its rejection. Suppose this amendment should be adopted by three-fourths of all the States of this Union, and thus become a substantive part of the Constitution. What then? Does any one suppose the recreant States will thus be drawn back into brotherly union? The undersigned fully believe that nothing short of an unconditional surrender of power to them will effect this object Will the Border States be pacified by this amendment? What evidence is there to this effect? The lowest claim presented as satisfactory to them is, so far as the undersigned know, the Crittenden Compromise, with Mr. Powell's amendment This proposition extends slavery into all the territories now possessed, or to be hereafter acquired south of 36 deg. 30 min north latitude; takes away the power of Congress to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, and, in addition to the above specifications, engrafts upon the Constitution, as a substantive part of that instrument, the opinion of the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott case, and makes the whole irrepealable and unamendable forever. Besides many other objectionable features, it utterly disfranchises a whole race. These demands are made by States accustomed to have their demands granted. The proposed Constitutional amendment is but the entering wedge. This is the first amendment ever proposed by Congress, contrary to the general spirit and scope of the original Constitution, and subversive of its principles. If this amendment is admitted, the charm of sacredness which now enshrines the Constitution will be broken; the respect of the people for the Constitution will be lessened; the public sentiment will be demoralized, and other amendments required by the Slave Power will be pressed with renewed vigor and great success. This amendment comes before this Legislature for approval or rejection by no act of their own. It is forced upon them by the recent action of Congress. Will this Legislature shrink from its duty, and throw the responsibility of action upon the next Legislature? Does any one doubt what Massachusetts thinks with regard to this amendment? Would not the reference of this amendment to the next Legislature be regarded by our sister States as a timid and temporizing policy, and hence would not such a course have a tendency to damp the zeal of the friends of freedom, and correspondingly encourage the slave propagandists? The undersigned so believe.
In the times that tried men's souls, in the past, Massachusetts did not shrink from the position which Providence assigned to her. When the Declaration of American Independence hung doubtful on the balance, the heart of Massachusetts found utterance through the voice of John Adams" Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, I stand for the Declaration. "This decisive act made firm the wavering, cheered the friends and disheartened the opponents of that grave and momentous declaration, which proved to be the prelude of that "agony of glory" which followed. Shall Massachusetts now, at a crisis more fearful to liberty than the crisis of 1776, fail to utter with equal emphasis, by the voice of her Legislature, "Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, Massachusetts stands by the Constitution as it is "? Do these Border States propose to remain loyal to the Constitution and the Union of the United States, so long as the Constitution remains unchanged? Do they propose to wait as good and peaceful members of a great confederacy, the result of constitutional amendments proposed, and carried in a constitutional manner? Far otherwise!They stand between the General Government and the recusant States, threatening one and cheering on the other, making open and public declaration that they will resist by force any attempt on the part of the General Government to enforce the laws. The undersigned think that Massachusetts, under the circumstances, has but one course to pursue, consistent with a proper respect for the past, with honor in the present, and with fidelity to the future, and that is an uncompromising adherence to the Constitution as it is interpreted in the light of the great principles upon which it rests. The undersigned, therefore, respectfully recommend that this Legislature, by a yea and nay vote, pass upon the proposed constitutional amendment.
N. H.WHITING, Senate.
O. W. ALBEE, House.
J. M. ROBBINS, House 
All the matters reported on by the Committee on Federal Relations were laid on the table, and ordered to be printed.
SECESSION IN NEW MEXICOGOVERNOR RENCHER HEADS ITFORT MARCY IN POSSESSION OF THE REVOLUTIONISTS.Los Vegas, New Mexico, March 12, 1861. The stage arrived here this morning from Santa Fe, en route for the States, and as it was about leaving here on its way in, an express arrived from Colonel Fauntleroy, commandant at Fort Union, ordering this officer to prepare for defence. On yesterday morning about 11 o'clock, the people of the capital, (Santa Fe,) Americans and Mexicans en masse, seeming to have sprung up like "Cadmus' men," well armed and in great numbers, at once seized and now hold Fort Marcy. Col. F declined to surrender the Fort, as was expected, and while in the act of remonstrating with the populace, the citizen soldiery rushed upon the works, and in ten minutes they were taken possession of.
Governor Rencher was the prime mover in these proceedings, and he now has charge of all the military equipments and public property. Everybody is surprised at this well concocted and efficient coup "d' armes. In brief, New Mexico now has declared for and practically affiliated with Texas and the South, and the United States is suddenly ignored and our allegiance changed.
Arizona also absolves her allegiance on the 16th inst St. Louis Republican, April 2d.
RETRIBUTIVE JUSTICE. After the attack of the Charlestonians on the Star of the West, a brisk controversy was carried on through the columns of the local press concerning the person who was entitled to the credit of firing the first shot at that vessel. The end of the dispute was the recognition of one St. Clair Morgan as the man who did the deed. St. Clair Morgan wore his laurels proudly, but after enjoying the praises of all Charleston for a season, he betook himself to Florida. At Pensacola, on the 21st ult., he had a deadly quarrel with an officer of Capt O'Hara's-command, belonging to Bragg's army. A challenge was given, a duel was fought, and Morgan fell dead at the first shot The ball from his antagonist's pistol entered the lower part of his abdomen, and passed entirely through his body. So dies St. Clair Morgan, the first man who fired a hostile shot in the South.
CONTEMPTIBLE MEANNESS OF THE SECEDERS!-The Charleston correspondent of the Tribune says:
"The Postal arrangements still remain in the hands of the United States, and are carried on and conducted as usual, principally at the expense of the North. I refer to this subject, however, for the purpose of calling the attention of the Postmaster at Charleston to the fact that the gentlemen who did represent South Carolina in the United States Congress, but who resigned and now profess to owe allegiance only to the treasonable Government at Montgomery, are still taking. advantageand a very mean one it isof the privileges of members of Congress, and are franking letters through the Post-Office. This I know was done so lately as yesterday by Mr. Porcher Miles, and the fraud is doubtless practised by others."
CHICAGO, April 5. Four persons charged with being fugitivesa father and mother, and their two-childrenwere taken hence to Springfield on Wednesday. They were examined before Commissioner Cornean yesterday, and delivered over to their owners.
CHICAGO, April 8. One hundred and six fugitive slaves left here last night for Canada. It is estimated that over a thousand fugitives have arrived here since last fall.
DETROIT, April 8.Three hundred fugitive slaves, principally from Illinois, have left here for Canada since last Saturday.
<c06>
A.T.FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A.S. Society, will speak at
Weare, N.H., Sunday, April 14.
North Weare, Monday, April 15.
Essex, Mass, Sunday, April 21.
Manchester, Mass, Monday, April 22
Manchester, N. H. Sunday, April 28.
MRS.E.L.ROSE will speak in 
New Bedford, Sunday, April 14.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak at 
Marlborough, Sunday, April 14, at 10 1-2 o'clock, A.M.
Feltonville, Sunday, April 14.
Valley Falls, R. I., Sunday, April 21.
Manchester, N.H., Sunday, April 28.
ET E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at 
Hopedale, Sunday A.M., April 21.
Milford. Sunday P.M., April 21.
SOUTH DANVERS,.An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held at South Danvers, Town Hall, on Sunday next, April 14, at 2 and 7 1-2 o'clock, P. M.
PARKER PILLSBURY, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Jr., and others, will give addresses. Let there be such an attendance as the momentousness of these imperilled times demands.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak as follows on Slavery:
At Taunton, Sunday evening, April 14.
At Raynham, Tuesday evening, April 16.
At Easton, Wednesday evening, April 17.
At South Easton, Thursday evening, April 18.
WANTED By a young man, 22 years of age, a situation as Book-keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis Under-stands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D.W.D., Box 2702, P. 0 April 123t
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatmentof diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.David Thayer, M. D; Luther Clark, M. D.; John.M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No.34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
DIEDIn Hancock, (N. H.,) March 22, Capt DAVID BOUTELLE, of paralysis, aged 67 years Obituary notice, next week.

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) Term of the Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 1, and continue Ten Weeks. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely chiefly upon the patronage of the more advanced and liberal portion of the public for support.
For particulars, send for Circular to the address of
WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., March 30, 1861. 4w

The Herald of Progress,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, EDITOR,
ASSISTED BY AN ASSOCIATION OF ABLE WRITERS AND CORRESPONDESTS.
COSMOPOLITAN in every department of knowledge; its crystallized thoughts are intended to furnish a beacon light for the future. Its columns are open to communications upon every subject. Its work is, to elevate the mind, and to add to man's material comforts. Particular attention is given to the department of Health, with new and progressed methods of treating disease, by the Editor. Devoted to no sect, belonging to no party, not given to ONE IDEA, it presents itself to a liberal-minded community, and asks their co-operation.
The Herald of Progress is published every Saturday, on a double folio of eight pages, for two dollars per annum, or one dollar for six months, in advance. Speciman copies forwarded gratis. Address, A J. DAVIS & CO., 274 Canal street, New York. April 10.

A New and Highly Important 
MONTHLY.
LEWIS'S NEW GYMNASTICS, AND BOSTON JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, will be published at Lewis's New Gymnasium, No.20 Essex Street, at the head of Harrison Avenue.
More than Two Hundred New Exercises will be presented in this Journal, making a system admirably adapted to both public and private use. 
The paper will be largely illustrated. Let no one interested Physical Culture fail to send for it. 
Single copy, $1.00; three copies, $2.00; five copies, $3.00; ten copies, $5.00-strictly in advance. 
All letters to be addressed, Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box No. 12, Boston, Mass. 
In connection with his Gymnasium. Dr. Lewis has established a Swedish Movement Cure for the treatment of Spinal Curvatures, Paralysis, and Stiffened Joints.
DR. LEWIS'S BLOW GUN,
An admirable means of strengthening the Lungs, may be obtained at the Gymnasium. A distinguished physician declares-" Wherever this delightful and beneficial amusement is introduced, consumption will become comparatively rare."
Copper Gun with plated mouth-piece and box of arrows, $2.00.
LEWIS'S SPIROMETER,
A beautiful and ingenious invention, calculated to enlarge and invigorate the chest; full of interest and benefit. The Water Cure World says" Dr. Lewis's Spirometer is just the thing, and an actual need in every family who care to have good lungs, or to be free from scrofula."
And again, " No conceivable practice will so surely keep open these air cells, and greatly enlarge the lungs, as the daily use of Lewis's Spirometer."
THE CHESS BALL GAME, the PARLOR SKATES, and the apparatus for every other active sport, can be obtained at the same place.
Dr. LEWIS receives at his Gymnasium children in delicate health, and trains them with special care. Parents 'with such children are cordially invited to call and witness the modes of training.
There are, likewise, classes of Ladies and Gentlemen. The management is such, that the weakest as well as the strongest are very happily improved. The sexes exercise together.
All who are interested in Physical Culture are invited to drop in at 20 Essex Street, at the head of Harrison Avenue. April 12.

The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine 
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Review, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B. The price in Great Britain of the five Periodica above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT &c.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, 
Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by AMY POST.A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailling must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
AMERICA'S RESPONSIBILITY TO LIBERTY.
Oh, noble land of mountain, river, lake,
Even more magnificent than our old world,
Of mines of untold wealth, of fertile soils,
Of mighty forests, and of prairies wide,
Where countless herds untamed may freely range;
Land of rich fruits and rare, of beauteous flowers,
Around whose cups gay glittering insects dart; 
Whose groves are vocal with the song of birds;
Land whose extent is measured not by miles,
But leagues; and whose vast boundaries inclose 
Both tropic heat and winter's ice-bound realm,
And the Atlantic and Pacific shores;
Land vaster than the mightiest States of old-
Oh, wouldst thou wisdom from their ruins learn!
What caused their overthrow, may cause thine own:
Oppressors of the helpless, their hard bonds
Of slavery crushed out souls created free.
Yet those great States of old, whose weeks yet show
Remnants of gorgeous splendor, never heard
Those holy, blessed truths, that Law of Love
The Christ whom ye call "Master" died to teach:
The gods they worshipped they but imitated;
Gods cruel, vengeful, false, licentious.
Oh, glorious land!-and does thy teeming soil 
Produce all Nature's riches, while thy sons,
Forgetful and ungrateful to the Giver
Of all this lavish wealth-forgetful, too,
Of the responsibility it brings, 
Strive, vainly, anxiously, to reconcile 
The two religions which the Lord declared 
Impossible. "Ye cannot serve," he cried, 
"With true allegiance, both God and Mammon."
Are ye so blind, America's proud sons,
As not to see slavery and mob-misrule
Are bringing on you Europe's cold disdain?
Will not that tyranny ye now permit 
End in wild anarchy, till ye become 
The jest of despots, who will sneering say, 
"Behold the end of all insane attempts
At governing without a crowned king!
Behold the fate of vaunted Liberty!
It ends in anarchy and mob-misrule!" 
Why should the strong North cower before the South, 
As if she held the reins of Destiny?
Oh, Northern freemen, do ye truly love 
Your home, your children? Tremble not for them; 
Leave them beneath the care of Freedom's God!
Taint not your honest palms with Southern gold: 
Better is honest poverty than wealth 
Wrung by oppression from slaves' unpaid toil.
Such wealth still brings a curse to sap the walls, 
And crumble into dust proud palaces. 
Tenterden, Eng. JANE ASHBY.
For the Liberator. 
YANKEE LAND.
A PARODY.
AIRDixie's Land."
The Yankees' love for man is rotten; 
The Yankee land is ruled by Cotton; 
Look around! look around! look around in Yankee land!
In Yankee land which I was born in, 
The "higher law" they treat with scorning. 
Look around! look around! look around in Yankee !and!
CHORUS.
Yet I'm glad that I'm a Yankee-hooray! hooray!
In Yankee land I'll take my stand, 
To live an honest Yankee. 
Away! away! such mock humanity!
Hooray! hooray! I'll be an honest Yankee!
II. 
Each day, as I around am walking, 
I see vain men and women stalking, 
Strutting round, &c.
They'll turn their nose up at a nigger,
They feel that they're a good deal bigger, 
Strutting round, &c.
CHORUS-Yet I'm glad, &c.
III.
Yet when their Southern lord and master 
Just snaps his whip, they'll travel faster,
Strutting round, &c. 
As much his slaves,-in different station,-
As those at home on his plantation, 
Strutting round, &c.
CHORUS-Yet I'm glad, &c.
IV. 
Though they may dress a little better, 
They just as truly wear the fetter, 
Sneaking round, &c.
They'll never be true men and women 
Till they leave off this wholesale sinning: 
Looking round, to give the suffering slave their hand. 
CHORUS-Yet I'm glad, &c.
Boston, April 2, 1861. JUSTITIA.

For the Liberator. 
WHAT I HAVE SEEN.
I have seen Vice a god stand forth; 
Before his altar thousands bowd;
Seen modest Virtue crush'd to earth, 
Down-trampled by the vulgar crowd!
While Falsehood base spoke out with pride, 
Men listened to his cunning speech; 
From honest Truth they turn'd aside, 
Nor heard they what she had to teach. 
I've seen the Right borne down by Wrong;
Seen men enslaved by tyrant Might; 
Not one of all the cringing throng 
Hath dared to vindicate the right.
Seen man beneath th' oppressor's rod, 
(Stripp'd, bruised and beaten, there he bleeds!) 
And preachers of thy word, oh God!
Quote texts to sanction hellish deeds!
While drones in gorgeous palaces 
Were safely sheltered from the storm, 
I've seen the little busy bees 
Without a roof to shield their form. 
I've seen, while palaced Knavery fed 
On luxuries brought from every clime,
Good honest Worth go beg for bread, 
Its poverty its only crime!
I've seen, ay, while the rich rogue had 
His splendid robes for grand display, 
The faithful toiler meanly clad; 
I've seen-I see it every day. 
Andover. RICHARD HINCHCLIFFE.

FRIENDS OF FREEDOM. 
Ye friends of freedom, falter not 
Ere victory you have bravely won; 
Till liberty, so dearly bought, 
Extends to all beneath the sun.
Then rally all from every State, 
And buckle on your armor well; 
Who freedom love and slavery hate, 
Let love of truth your bosoms swell. 
A faltering foe will ever yield 
While shining bribes allure their eyes-
Rise, friends of freedom! take the field,
And take the foe upon surprise.
A universal cause is ours, 
Our motives reach to all mankind, 
Contend in love with all your powers,
Redeem the lame, the halt, the blind. 
Our Southern lords place all at stake;
Make way far liberty! they cry; 
The pillars now begin to shake, 
Slavery ere long is doomed to die. 
Aarons and Moses'-of the tribes, 
While marching for fair Freedom's lands,
Stand firm, and never mind the bribes, 
While friends of truth hold up your hands.
And when we gain fair Freedom's soil,
We'll rest secure from all our foes,
From strife and care and anxious toil, 
Freedom enjoy, with sweet repose.
<c02>
The Liberator.
[From the pamphlet "The People," by Karl Heinzen, 1853.] 
THE PEOPLE AND THE STATE; 
OR, 
The Unitarian State and the Federative State. 
[TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.]
[Concluded.]
If we realize the question correctly, it will be seen that federation is a round about way, by which States, that can no longer singly reach their destination or secure their interests, may gradually get into the harbor of the Unitarian State; or that it is a safe harbor, in which said States may dwell together, until the time has arrived for them to form another, more natural Union. But as the States that have hitherto existed under that form have enjoyed a greater freedom than others, (which resulted from their very nature, only republics being able to form a confederacy,) people have come to consider federation as the destination of all States, and the condition of liberty. This critical error has been especially supported by North America, whose peculiar relation caused it to be overlooked, that the true cause of its miraculous development does not lie in the federal system, but in the concessions made by the same to the system of centralization. We know from history how much trouble was incurred, and what compromises had to be made, to bring the several colonies up to those concessions, which, having once been made, must either be enlarged, or again retracted. 
Another circumstance that has hitherto blinded us, in regard to the federative system, has been the form and bad effects of centralization in other States, especially in France. On the one hand, North America is pointed to, and it is said-Such are the glorious fruits of confederation; on the other, we are referred to France for the purpose of showing what lamentable fruits centralization will bring forth. Yet, neither example proves anything. Shall we abolish all knives, because a murderer may cut throats with them? Let us take care to do away with murderers-then we shall have no danger from knives. Centralization, like the State in general, is capable of being misused. But that abuse will cease when the power ceases from which it springs. Let us consider France. The centralization of to-day that chains the whole country to the government in Paris, is still the very same that the French despots have created and misused. What avails the republic, if it neglects to secure its most necessary conditions, and, on the contrary, maintains the conditions of a monarchy? If in France the bureaucracy (the ruling power of the officials) were restricted, the communes emancipated, and the business of the administration ceded in part to the departments, (provinces or counties,) the political life of the rest of the country would naturally be quickened and elevated. If we abolish the standing army, or reduce it to a minimum, and organize a general militia instead, we abolish the sword by which despots have enthralled France. But, before all, the stronghold of despotism, the form of the government, must be changed. If we abolish entirely the republican king, the President, nay, the whole separate executive power,-that natural or forced betrayer of the people,-and if a permanent convention of delegates, elected by universal suffrage, and always revocable by the majority of their constituents, govern the country by means of a ministerial commission or council appointed by and dependent on their majority, then the whole people will have almost immediate participation in their government, and the ill effects of centralization, which is an evil only in the hands of a separate executive power, must disappear. If we abolish the independence or irresponsibility of the general assembly, the possibility is removed of the trustees of the people changing into betrayers of the people. A Louis Napoleon became possible only because the French Republic committed the folly of retaining a separate executive power under the name of the Presidency, into whose hand they gave the knife to murder the Republic; and the National Assembly playing into the murderer's hands was only possible because their constituents, without the right of revolution, had no means of substituting a better one for it. 
The principal advantages of centralization in a truly democratic State consist in this, that it must put in motion all the powers of the whole State for its general ends, without stay or loss; make the prevailing reason the law of the whole people without hindrance; keep aloof all separate interests inimical to the general progress; enlarge the views of all citizens; facilitate the amalgamation of all interests; give a unitarian foundation to patriotism; prevent the fossilization of the people in partizanship; and secure the lowest possible expensiveness of the administration with the greatest possible simplicity of the State mechanism. And these advantages cannot be lost, unless, by an absurd division of powers, (into Executive and Legislative,) the government is placed in opposition to the people, and enabled to operate behind the back of the people's representatives, and against the people. When the people's representation is also the people's government, the will of the government must be also the will of the people, and the centralization of that will must form the very power of the people, instead of being dangerous to them. If the people enunciate and execute their will through representatives chosen by them, and at any moment liable to be recalled, instead of letting these delegates, after the election, talk like independent masters, and permitting, besides them, a separate executive to act like an independent master, the possibility of injuring their rights will be removed, as the people will no more act against themselves than a single man. We shall, then, need no States within the State, in order to create bulwarks against the central will, which is here the people's own will; hence, no federal members, with separate legislatures, powers and sovereignty. Even for the central power to leave as much business as possible to the provinces, and to emancipate the communes, is not calculated to create a dualism in the State, nor to protect the several sections of the State from the encroachments of the central power. That division is rather a practical necessity of the State administration, it being impossible to survey, from the central point of a large State, all the several local necessities, and particularly to regulate the political home economy of the citizens, the political business of the communes, (or towns.) As long as a State does not transcend the circumference and idea of a commune, the political life of State and commune will entirely coincide. But the expansion of the State renders a separation of the two branches, as well as a multiplication of the communes, and a middle link between them and the central government, indispensable, even from physical considerations. It is, then, considerations of the State mechanism, administration, local practicability, &c., but not the intention of making parts of the State independent individualities, in order to protect them against the whole of the State,-it is not such an absurd intention that establishes an articulated division in the central (or consolidated) State, in every rational State. That intention dates only from States whose government was based on oppression, force, or which endeavored to protect themselves from such force; in which, therefore, people had to look to some expedient to escape as much as possible from its influence. But it is to create a great confusion when we desire to transfer the mere expedients of a State not free, to a free State, because they rendered some service under quite different premises. Who will make a stove fire in summer because it was necessary in winter? As in summer we need not heat the room, or as in health we need no medicine, no more is it necessary in a truly democratic State to protect the people by means of sovereign cantons against the central power, as that central power is nothing else but the power of the people itself. 
It is now time that we should make a useful application of what we have explained, to North America. After the people in this country have come to regard the federative form, which, it is true, in the outset, 
<c03>
may have been the only practicable way to form the Union, as the permanent, perpetual and unimprovable frame of the State, it does not, of course, occur to politicians to trace the necessary evils of such a polity to their true source. Their highest wisdom, therefore, consists in the invention and application of palliative remedies to ward off the consequences of the federal or now existing form of government, and whose application is always attended with unconscious opposition to the advantages of the only true system, the Unitarian or centralized State, and a change in the mode of government. At all times has the " Democratic" party of North America made resistance to the extension of the powers of the central government, and to the management of certain general interests by Congress, and at the same time endeavored to preserve, as far as possible, the sovereignty of the single States. All of this was consistent from the stand-point of the federative theory; but it was a narrow policy, because nobody thought of elevating himself above that stand-point, and of subjecting the federative system to a rational and radical critique. And yet, there was never a lack of incentives to do so-Only think of the "internal improvements" already alluded to. That they are wanted, that they must be put to the general account, and cannot be effected without the general assistance of the Union, everybody must admit; but the "Democrats" resist, being afraid lest the central point of the Union obtain too large a preponderance over its several members. If there were no separate Executive, and if that centre consisted of but a single chamber, by means of which the people could govern as directly as possible, democratic jealousy would have lost all ground, and just the true democrats would necessarily be the first in advocating internal improvements. But that change of view remains foreign to them, because they stick blindly to the established system, glorifying with an irrepressible faith in precedents or authorities, their Constitution as the ideal of all constitutions, and, therefore, cannot fully comprehend the causes of their anomalous position. 
The Whigs, on the other hand, are contending for the opposite, that is, for strengthening the central power, and for accumulating, as far as possible, all sorts of general business in Washington. Of course they are; for they want domineering power and reaction, -nota bene, by means of the separate Executive,-and in the federative State the sovereignty of the parts is the preservative against such reaction. But when the federative State is converted into a unitarian State, when the separate executive is dropped, and when, with a single chamber, the government is simply administered by the majority of the whole people, the Whigs will give up doting on centralization; for centralization will then secure the expression and action of that popular majority, among which the Whigs proper are not to be found.
If in a North American Unitarian State, the real Union majority were in possession of the government, as, you know, is required by genuine democracy, it would soon be ready with such laws as would gradually free the Union of its pernicious evils, without endangering, on the other hand, its continuance in the present boundaries. It is only as a unitarian State that the Union can become a truly democratic State. As a federal State, it is and will remain more or less in the hands of the aristocrats and slaveholders.
But how shall the Union become a Unitarian State? That question can, perhaps, be more easily answered than it may seem at first. The Union will be led forward to the unitarian State by the consequences of the federative system-consequences which will be chiefly brought about by the sectional policy of the slave States. These will sooner or later secede, (1) or compel the Union to a forced reconstruction, and the result of that reconstruction must be a unitarian State, governed by one law from the upper lakes down to the Mexican Gulf, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific ocean. And how will it be possible to erect a common Bureau of Law and Policy for that vast territory? Whoever will imagine that territory overrun with telegraph lines and railroads, must clearly perceive that, in time to come, States may be governed as small communities were in times past, and that a union of a hundred million wills may in after times cost no more pains than are now required in calling a single popular meeting. When we, as radical theorists, consider the fundamental principles into whose bed the historical development must finally return like a devious stream, then the efforts of politicians, meanwhile practising on the wandering stream all possible pilot arts with all possible dexterity, while they lack the foresight of its future direction, will assume a peculiar appearance; and we feel tempted to pity the greatest practitioners, if they lack theory. 
In America, we may learn that theory without practice is impotent, but, likewise, that practice without theory is foolish. We may learn that North America, albeit the asylum of republicans, is not the ideal of the Republic. We may learn, here, how the Republic ought not to be, though we may unhesitatingly accept a hundred of its practical particulars. Above all, we may be taught by the "people" of New York, the "people" of Pennsylvania, the "people" of Maryland, (who even seize the ships and break the skulls of the neighboring people of Pennsylvania, if they catch a few oysters-State oysters!) "the people " of South Carolina, in short, by the thirty different "peoples" of this nation, that it must be one of our first precautions to prevent the springing up in our native country (Germany) of a "Badish people," "Suavian people," "Bavarian people," "Saxon People," "Prussian people," "people of Hamburg, Schleiz Lobenstein, &c., but to recognize only a German people, consisting of forty millions of State citizens, and not of forty kinds of provincialists. 
Postscript of the author, in the "Pionier" of Nov. 29, 1860.-The foregoing fragment of a pamphlet, written ten years ago, might as well have been suggested by the present situation of things in the Union, which furnishes a practical comment to it. We are almost comically impressed, when we behold party politicians laboring to find out the causes of the rupture, and of new remedies to cure it, while it does not occur to any of them to perceive or acknowledge that the primary cause is to be found in the very formation of this much-vaunted confederacy, in its federal division, and its "wisely framed" Constitution. The slave question is not the primary cause of the secession; as a specific sectional interest, it only provides the occasion and impulse for putting that separation, which was prepared in the formation of the "sovereign" States, into action. Slavery could not continue and grow but by existing in sovereign States; nothing but the habit of a "sovereign," separate existence could invest these States with the power and presumption to disclaim all obedience to the Federal government. In the South, that issue was accidentally brought about by the slave interest: it might have been a different one, and, in the long run, it is possible that in the North or far West, as well, a separate interest may grow up, which may think to find its advantage in secession, and will use its "sovereign," separate existence to accomplish it. But, what is the remedy to be applied, if the seceding part of the people represent an imposing power? The federal government will then prove too weak, and must be strengthened, which will either bring along those dangers the State sovereignty was intended to avert, or lead into the track of the unitarian State; but if the people betake themselves to arms, we shall have civil war and anarchy. 
Without revolution, bloody or otherwise, North America cannot escape that ever-returning dilemma in which she has been placed by her "wisely framed" Constitution. That Constitution must be amended; the federative system must be abandoned; the separate Executive power and the Senate must be abolishished, if a real democracy and a lasting union shall arise. It is, therefore, judicious to discuss that question in time, and the present situation of the country is quite well adapted to make such discussion profitable. 
(1) A prediction now fulfilled to the letter.-[Ed. Lib. 
<c04>
LETTER FROM REV. BERIAH GREEN. 
DEAR GARRISON,-Some of my Church neighbors may make large eyes at "the news," told in the last number of the Liberator, that Beriah Green is to be classified with the orthodox. I am a little surprised that Mr. Whipple should assign me any such position. I remember, however, that I live obscurely in a retired corner; and that such a mistake may easily be made by observers at a distance. Do I make too much of myself in inviting the attention of your readers, a few moments, to the subject thus introduced?
The American slave has for the last thirty years had very few friends, at all superior in wisdom, strength and enterprise-in zeal, activity and courage, to William Goodell, Amos A. Phelps and Charles B. Storrs. The memory of Phelps and Storrs I cherish with a veneration, which is equally profound and refreshing. Goodell, thank Heaven, still lifts up upon us the light of his, thoughtful, benignant countenance. I have known him long and well; and never did I see him begin to falter in the cause of dear Humanity. His white head, as beautiful as it is hoary, is a "crown of righteousness." The hallowed names, which I have ventured to repeat, were, I suppose, eminently orthodox. Goodell is so to-day-warmly, fully, tenderly. I am, I suppose, generally regarded as quite otherwise. It is certain, that I long ago withdrew all sympathy and cooperation with those, with whom in the religious sphere I had been identified. To the doctrines, which I then inculcated-to the conclusions, which I then commended, I now subscribe under a natural construction. Had my fellows-my old associates in religious enterprise and exertion-truly believed in the creeds, which they officially magnified, I should not have retired from their presence. It was not their orthodoxy-it was their gross inconsistency, which shocked and repelled me. I could by no means persuade them to act on the principles on which, word-wise, they insisted. To instance in a few particulars: On "sinners" generally, they urged, vehemently, the necessity of IMMEDIATE REPENTANCE; but while agreeing with me, that slaveholding was a sin, they reproached me for maintaining that, like other sins, it should at once be renounced and abandoned! They taught as essential to Christian character, that the Bible is everywhere, certainly in all the general precepts it enjoins, divinely inspired; and then cast their votes where political positions of the gravest character were to be filled, for names which neither "feared God" nor "hated covetousness"-for the vassals and victims of their own appetites and passions! The worth of the human soul, they declared, exceeded their powers of description or comprehension-was worthy of the sacrifice which the Savior made on the Cross for its redemption; yet might be reduced to a "chattel" without a forfeiture of the smiles of God or the complacency of mankind! They eagerly gave their countenance and support to candidates for the highest offices, who, according to their own creeds and inculcations, were totally depraved! And this when the inspired volume expressly teaches, that from "an evil man" only "evil things" can be expected! They magnified the claims of all the heathen to our sympathy and assistance, while identifying themselves with arrangements and usages, which were deliberately and openly employed in multiplying, thousands upon thousands, the most abject and hopeless heathen! With such glaring inconsistencies, with such gross hypocrisy, I could not identify myself, by profession or position, without forfeiting whatever might deserve the name of self-respect; without plunging headlong into atheism and misanthropy. 
Well, I did not see that Unitarians generally, so far as I was acquainted with their history, were more intent on reducing their professed principles to practice. In opposition to what they described as the inculcations of the Orthodox, they affirmed that God was equally and impartially the Father of all men-sternly adverse to "respect of persons"; yet looked with complacency on those who deliberately and stoutly practised this pregnant vice under its most malignant and odious forms! In His name, they made excuses or offered apologies or attempted a justification of slave-holding! They were copiously and fervently eloquent in descanting on the dignity of Human Nature-a divine entity, which they professedly regarded with warm complacency and profound veneration, while they consented to its exposure in the shambles, as an "article of merchandize"! Their neighbors, who sternly and persistently opposed any such desecration of "the image of God," they held up to general contempt or abhorrence, as infected with gross and malignant fanaticism. The Orthodox and the Heterodox seemed in vast majorities to combine their strength and their resources, in despite of their respective creeds, in a most eager and virulent assault upon the Abolitionists, whenever and wherever opportunity invited. What could I care for the inculcations of those who did not believe in the creeds which they professed -who were not convinced by the arguments, or persuaded by the appeals, which they urged with factitious zeal upon others? I saw clearly-with disgust and sorrow I saw, that they were acting a part-driving a trade-eagerly and desperately prostituting their theological apparatus to gambling purposes! How could I help standing aloof?
In the meantime, it is my constant aim and earnest endeavor, in laying out my strength and expending my resources, to adjust myself to the sublime objects amid which I am placed and to which I am vitally related-God and Humanity-my Father and Brethren. To the one I rise in the exercise of the filial; with the other, I identify myself in the exercise of the fraternal. The filial involves the fraternal, and the fraternal implies the filial. They mutually nourish and strengthen each other; and can by no means be separated, as unitedly and everlastingly the soul and substance of Christian character. Where these are, there are truth and love, wisdom and strength, beauty and dignity, usefulness and blessedness. These bring down the Heavens to the Earth-raise the Earth to the Heavens. These bind the Father to His Children-unite the Children to their Father. These raise all the offspring of Adam into one dear and hallowed Brotherhood-into a sacred and cherished Unity. "And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it." Of course, all are embarrassed by the chain which oppression fastens on the limbs of any individual. Each in asserting his own rights, asserts the rights of all; each in promoting his own welfare, blesses all his fellows. He exults in his identity with Human Nature-here and elsewhere-now and forever-with Human Nature under whatever form, aspect or condition. Such, Mr. Liberator, is the sum and substance of the Orthodoxy of 
BERIAH GREEN. 
Whitesboro', March 28, 1861. 

Selected Articles.
LIFE IN THE LAND OF CHIVALRY.
THREE MONTHS IN PRISON FOR HATING SLAVERY. 
Mr. Arthur Robinson, a young man about twenty-eight years of age, who was expelled from New Orleans for entertaining views not favorable to slavery, called at our office yesterday, and related his experience of the liberty of speech and freedom of opinion in the Crescent City, as follows: He resided in New Orleans for seven years, up to the 11th of March, 1861. He has always been strongly opposed to slavery, and hoped to see it abolished by lawful means. For four years he was the publisher of the New Orleans True Witness, an Old School Presbyterian paper, but never inserted in that journal an article expressive of Anti-Slavery sentiments. He was a prominent member of the Young Men's Christian Association of New Orleans, and when that city was devastated by yellow fever, he had charge of one of the largest districts, in the way of affording relief to the suffering, and providing for the burial of the poor among the dead. His views of slavery, he says, were never concealed from such as desired to know them. He was known as the warm advocate of Fremout in the campaign of 1856. 
<c05>
Immediately after the election of Mr. Lincoln, however, at a secession meeting in New Orleans, a list of the names of residents hostile to slavery was made up, and his among them. Spies were set upon his track, and means most cowardly and lawless were resorted to, to collect evidence against him. On the 29th of November, at the instance of Joseph Bass-known principally in connection with the ownership of a race-horse-and J. K. Sprague, a Post-Office Agent, he was arrested and taken before the Mayor. These two minions of despotism obtained an order from "his Honor" to search Robinson's house. They found in it, among other things, a copy of "Barnes's Scriptural Views of Slavery," a scrap-book full of Anti-Slavery extracts, and a number of copies of the Boston Liberator. These were regarded as proof most positive of his violation of a statute law of the sovereign State of Louisiana. The Mayor remonstrated with Robinson, and regretted that he was compelled to commit him for trial on such a serious charge. In the presence of the municipal dignitary, Bass said that if Robinson was released and entered the streets again, he (Bass) would shoot him down, and Mr. Mayor opened not his mouth in reproof of such an outburst of Southern chivalry. Robinson was committed to jail on the 29th of November, and remained there till the 11th of March -103 days. During his incarceration, the jailor frequently said, that he would give "the d-d Abolitionist" up to any mob of ten men who should call for him, and agree to lynch him. 
It is required by the laws of Louisiana that, before any case shall be submitted to the Grand Jury, the prisoner shall be examined before a County Recorder, to ascertain if there be probable cause to believe him guilty; this was not done in Robinson's case. The Grand Jury found a "true bill" against him. There were several counts in the indictment, as follows: Using language calculated to excite discontent among free persons of color, and insubordination among slaves; bringing into the State a copy of Barnes's Scriptural Views of Slavery. (This was false, as Mr. Robinson purchased the book in the city of New Orleans.) The third and fourth counts were in relation to the Boston Liberator and the scrap-book before noticed. It was charged that he had brought the scrap-book into the State, which was not the case. As to the Boston Liberator, he had been a subscriber to it for two years, and he had received it regularly up to the time of the Secession excitement. While in jail, he received information that his liberty could be purchased from the keeper for $250. He was taken before the Criminal Court on the 11th of March, but it was then discovered that the ignorance of the "Grand Jurors" had been more than a match for this intended villany. The indictment charged that the incendiary documents had been found in Robinson's house on the 1st of December, whereas the "prisoner" was in jail on that day, and had been committed because of the discovery of the books. This flaw in the indictment procured his release, on condition of his leaving the city within twenty-four hours- Cincinnati Gazette. 

HANGING A MICHIGAN MAN.
About a year since, a young man named John Nott, who had for some time previous been in the employ of Mr. Bender in this city, left for the South. A gentleman who knew him well, and worked with and near him in Vicksburg and vicinity, has just returned to this place, bringing the information that the young man was a Republican, and so expressed himself in that locality, for which free expression of opinion he was lynched and hung in January last. He says that a band of Southern cut-throats, who made lynching and mobbing their principal business, took him when partially intoxicated, and therefore less cautious in regard to the utterance of his sentiments, than on other occasions, and carried him over the river into Louisiana, and there hung him as they would a dog, to a tree, until he was dead-Grand Rapids Eagle. 

SIB RANKIN HUNG-A LITTLE. 
There can be no doubt but the more intelligent portion of the blacks in the South, (says the Newbern (N. C.) Press,) free and slave, feel that they are somewhat elevated by the election of Lincoln. This view is strengthened by the frequent acts of insolence and insubordination of late. The following is from the Salisbury Watchman. We can't see how Sib should be an object of pity. The failure to hang him may cost some white man his life yet:-
"Sib Rankin, a free man of color, for some time past employed by Messrs. Waterhouse & Bowes in the Gas House, at this place, got into an altercation with another free negro on Sunday, the 17th inst., near the depot; and in the midst of the disturbance between them, Mr. P. Williamson, a magistrate, interfered and struck Sib with a stick, for which he struck Mr. Williamson, and then fled. He was pursued and overtaken by white men, but refused to be taken, and threatened to kill with a knife (which he held in his hand) any one who should approach him. He also threw a stone at one of his pursuers, who narrowly escaped a most fearful blow. But Sib was taken, notwithstanding these demonstrations, and led away to trial before the Intendant, Mr. John I. Shaver. The examination resulted in an order for his committal, unless he gave bail in a bond of $200 for his appearance at the next Court. Failing to give bail, the officer was taking him to jail, when a mob interfered and took him from the officer, and led him away to hang him, as they said. 
We understand that after arriving at the place where it was proposed to hang him, Sib was asked which he would prefer, 500 lashes or hanging; and that he replied he would rather be killed than take 500 lashes. Thereupon, without further ceremony, the rope already around his neck was thrown over the limb of a tree, and the leaders of this lawless company drew him up. How long he hung, we do not know. Some of the leaders soon relented, however, and called out, cut him down. When lowered, he fell on his face, bleeding at the nose and ears, and lay some time in a senseless condition. When sufficiently recovered, he was taken to the Gas House, and there remained, we believe, until sent off to Charlotte on the next train. 
Sib has been represented to us, by one who took some pains to ascertain the truth, as bearing a pretty good character in Charlotte, where he is well known; and we have been told that he holds property to the value of $1,500 or $2,000-honestly acquired; a circumstance greatly in his favor; for it is well known few men of his color and station are likely to experience such prosperity without a pretty good reputation. 
The law-abiding people of our town, without an exception, so far as we know, condemn this lawless and cowardly act. True, the free negro population in the South are a miserable and worthless class; but, in view of their circumscribed condition, and helplessness and dependence on the clemency of the whites all through life, magnanimity should prompt us to secure to them at least a fair trial at the law for whatever offences they may commit. Besides, mob law is a fearful institution: it is blind, heedless and indiscriminate; so that those who lead it to-day may be driven by it to-morrow; and hence it is always best, even though the really guilty may sometimes else escape, to repress this dangerous power."
$1,200 WORTH OF NIGGER HUNG.
W. C. Moore of Sumner County, Tenn., was attacked with a knife by one of his slaves, a few days ago, and received two terrible wounds, one on the throat and the other on the chin. Mr. Saunders and the father of Mr. Moore came to his rescue, when the negro turned upon the former, and commenced cutting him, and then upon the latter, cutting his throat from ear to ear, almost severing his head from his body, and killing him instantly. The alarm having been given, the people in the vicinity hastened to the bloody scene, and it was necessary to shoot the negro three times, before the knife could be got from him. He was then taken, and hung immediately. It is thought the wound of the younger Moore will not prove fatal. 
WHIPPING A WOMAN TO DEATH. 
We learn that Mr. Jacob Patten, who lives in the south-western part of Missouri, whipped one of his slaves, a negro woman, to death, on Saturday, the 7th inst. After the negro was buried, suspicions of foul play caused her to be taken up. A coroner's inquest was held, and it was evident, from the condition of the body, that she had met her death as above stated. Patten was arrested, and gave bail in the amount of $2,500 to appear at Circuit Court."
On Thursday evening, the 14th, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES spoke to a large audience, on the Temperance question. The address has been highly complimented, and, doubtless, was among the very best that have been delivered on that subject during the present series of meetings.-Salem (O.) Republican.
<c06>
MR. LEWIS FORD'S LECTURE.
Mr. Ford delivered his lecture as per appointment, at the Everett School House on Thursday evening: subject, "Immediate and Uncorditional Emancipation, the Duty of the Master and the Right of the Slave." To say that it was able, is faint praise. Take it all in all, matter and manner, it was the ablest public address, of any kind, we have ever heard in St Cloud, except except Grow's speech; but we have been unable to attend at many of our most important meetings. Mr. Ford's facts and arguments can in a bee line from beginning to end. There was not a redundancy, an irrelevant sentence, or disjointed paragraph in the whole-which was a complete and concise presentation of the subject. We were greatly taken by surprise, both at the matter and at the manner of delivery, which was clear, calm, earnest and even eloquent, as Mr. Ford is not known as a lecturer. 
He assumed that slaveholding must be either right or wrong. If right, then there is no ground for the Republican desire to limit it, for if right, why not extend and perpetuate it to the utmost of our ability? But if wrong, there can be no other doctrine for moralists to preach but immediate cessation of the wrong. God calls upon all men, everywhere, to repent; and says that now is the accepted time. In no place does the Bible give any countenance to any plan of gradual repentance: and these opponents of slavery who condemn it, and still talk to slaveholders as if it were not their duty to repent immediately, to break off their sins by righteousness, but apologize for their continuance in wrong, are the enemies both of the slaveholder and of the slave, and of the cause of truth; for they confuse men's minds, by teaching that sin is not always sinful, that men may serve God and Mammon.
Every man has a right to his own body and soul, to the reward of his own labor; and those who take either from him by violence do, in very deed, rob him. To take away a man's right to himself is theft. Every hour the thief keeps and uses the stolen property is a renewed act of theft, and it does not improve the title to have this property pass, by descent, to the heirs of the persons who originally acquired it. If a man steal your horse, and leave it at his death to his son, who knows how it was adquired, you do not recognize the right of the son any more than that of the father. 
Slaveholders live by appropriating to their own use that which belongs to others,. i. e., by theft. If there were a common thief in this community, we would think strange of a reformer who would urge him to leave off his bad practices gradually: and inasmuch as he had robbed a bank last week, ask him to content himself with robbing a country store this week, with stealing a horse next week, a cow on the next, and sheep on the next; and in the meantime to be preparing some plan for getting an honest living.-St. Cloud (Minnesota) Democrat, edited by Mrs. Jane G. Swisshelm.

SPANISH INVASION OF DOMINICA.
The Dominicans have issued the following proclamation against the Spanish invasion:-
Dominicans! The country is in danger, and there is but one way to save it-by revolution. Santana, since his last elevation to power, has sold the Republic. The price of the Yankees did not suit him. To-day he has adjudged it to Spain, and is preparing to crush the Dominican people under the colonial yoke for the vile price of a few puerile dignities, and of the gold which will be distributed to him and five or six principal accomplices. To-morrow, the Tartars will enjoy in quiet the riches gained by this criminal bargain, and will welcome us with an ironical smile on hearing the clank of our chains. To-morrow, shame will settle on our hearthstones, and the stigma of ignominy will soil our brows. To-morrow, our wives will fly from our arms, our mothers will refuse their caresses, and our children their smiles-a degenerate people merit them not. To-morrow, we shall be able to leave to our families neither country, glory, honor, prosperity, nor even the repose of the domestic hearth. To-morrow, to express it once for all, we shall have changed the noble aegis of the Cross for the livery of slavery. What, then, shall be the way of restoration? Revolution. A revolution, holy, noble, just, grand, because it has for its object the preservation of a nationality created at the price of the blood and fortunes of its citizens; a revolution, holy, noble, just, grand, because it is undertaken to save our country and liberties. Fatherland! Liberty! this was the heroic cry which preceded the revolution, of 1844; and the same cry precedes the revolution of 1861; the cry of a nation, which now suppresses forever the cries of mere factions. 
Dominicans! to arms! let each citizen be a soldier of liberty, and to the cry of "Vixa la Nation!" the tyrant will be forever annihilated. Let the fire of patriotism burn in our hearts as the tropical sun vivifies our existence. Dominicans! to arms! shame to those who dally in the rear! In this great day of our country, there are but two classes-those who are good citizens and those who are traitors! Dominicans! to arms! we must conquer or die; for death is preferable to degradation, and if we remain impassible, we can no longer pretend to the dignity of free men. Dominicans! to arms! Let us arise on the same day and at the same moment, as a single man. No mercy to traitors. We must conquer at any price! Let no reverses discourage us. If we triumph not in the cities and palaces, we will triumph in the villages, in the suburbs, in the plains, in the forests. We should make a fight of giants which will astonish the world, and make the earth tremble under our feet! Dominicans! victory or death, before the fall of the Republic! Let us pray to Providence that before this land of Columbus be dishonored, it may be engulphed in the ocean. Dominicans! to arms! to combat! to victory! Let at us wear the crown of heroes before we clasp the martyr's palm. 
The general of the armies of the Republicans, Jose Marie Cabral, also issued an appeal to the people. The Kingston papers have published a protest of the ex-Emperor Shoulouque, which excites much mirth in Hayti."

DESIGNS UPON NEW MEXICO. 
If the Federal Government maintains a "masterly inactivity," its enemies do not. The telegraph apprises us that the St. Louis Republican of yesterday has a letter from Las Vegas, New Mexico, of the 12th ult., which reports the seizure of Fort Marcy by a party of Americans and Mexicans, headed by Gov. Rencher. We knew already that agents of the Texas Secessionists had been at work in Arizona-which is the south-western portion of New Mexico-and had won over one who is called "Gov. Owea" to their cause. And our last Memphis Appeal-a Secession oracle-in noticing this report, says:-
"New Mexico will doubtless join in the movement. She applied to Congress for admission as a State, and was rejected by the Black Republicans because slavery was recognized in her Constitution. These territories, from locality and identity of interests, belong to the slaveholding States.. So long as Black Republicanism rules the Union, of which it now holds a lease, subject to perpetual renewal, they could not entertain any hope of legalizing slavery, while in a territorial condition, so as to make it a permanent institution, nor enroll themselves in the sisterhood of States while they adhered to their present policy. This movement will complicate affairs somewhat at Washington, and will be a bitter pill for Seward and Lincoln. They deny the rights of secession to a sovereign State; they will now be called upon to discuss the right of revolution in a Territory. 
Swift retribution is falling upon the North for its recusancy to justice. They resolved, in defiance of right, to exclude the South from the common territory, and now, the most fruitful of the territories are sliding from their grasp. They resolved to drive the slave States to the wall, and draw around them a cordon of fire; but the hand of Providence has opened a passage for the South through the sea of trouble, and a limitless expanse of territory invites them to its occupation."

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
Seventh Edition. 
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, 
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
274 Canal street, New York.
05 6m
