THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents -one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debt of the paper, viz;-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 4. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1518.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
ALABAMA.
The Joint Resolutions on the subject of Federal Relations, introduced by Mr. Jamison, passed the State Senate on yesterday with only one dissenting voice. No one, at all acquainted with the politics of Alabama, can doubt for a moment that the resolutions truly reflect the sentiments of an ‘irrepressible' majority of the people of this great and gallant State. These Joint Resolutions will now, doubtless, pass the House with the same unanimity that they have passed the State, and will serve as a guide to the Democratic State Convention which is to assemble in this city to-day.-Montgomery Adv.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Alabama in General Assembly concerned, That, in the opinion of this General Assembly, the Territories belonging to the United States are the common property of the people of the States; and that, under the Constitution of the United States, the people of the slaveholding States have the right to hold and enjoy their property in slaves in said Territories, so long as the said Territories continue such; and that no law enacted by such Territories can deprive them of that right, or impair the same.
SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That with the right to hold slaves in the common Territories so conferred by the Constitution, are also conferred the means necessary to enjoy that right, without which it would be nugatory and worthless, and practically cease to exist: hence, there is a correlative solemn duty imposed on the Federal Government to provide all the means necessary for the protection and enjoyment of that right.
SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, That the people of the Southern States should, as one man, denounce any Administration and any party, which denies to them this vital right to protection of their property in the Territories; and that no man, whatever his antecedents may be, should be supported for President of the United States, who would leave this fundamental right of property and its protection dependent on Territorial legislation.
SEC 4. Be it further Resolved, That the people of the Southern States should not, either through political Conventions or otherwise, commit themselves to the support of any man for President who does not, in unequivocal terms, concede to the South the rights claimed in the foregoing resolutions; and that it would be a dangerous, if not suicidal, policy for them to submit those vital rights to the arbitrament of a Convention, a majority of whose members are from the non-slaveholding States, without first demanding a distinct admission of those constitutional rights as a condition precedent to being bound by the action of any such Convention.

ABUSE OF THE LECTURE SYSTEM.
Wendell Phillips, by invitation of the Albany Young Men's Association, will deliver his lecture on Toussaint L'Ouverture in that city on the evening of February 2d.-Tribune.
How much longer are Young Men's Associations at the North to lend themselves to the dissemination of the abominable opinions this man Phillips habitually gives utterance to? It is no credit to the country that so large a proportion of the 'lectures' delivered before the associations in question are replete with infidel or unpatriotic sentiments; and it would be far better that the whole lecturing system should come to an end, than that the present course should be continued. The country showed its good sense when it compelled the exclusion of Theodore Parker from the Lyceum platform; and it is to be hoped that the good work will be continued until such men as Phillips, Cheever, Beecher, Bellows, Emerson, and other agitators of the same school, shall be utterly silenced, so far as our Young Men's Associations are concerned. If they must give vent to their profane or unpatriotic ribaldry, let it fall upon the ears of their particular admirers only, and not upon those of an insulted community. These associations, we fear, are much to blame in this respect. A desire to secure large receipts has induced many of them to pander to depraved tastes, and in this way the public conscience has been blighted by the insidious and persistent inculcation of pernicious principles, moral, political and social. If your Young Men's Associations cannot be sustained except at such sacrifices as these, let them cease altogether. Let well-disposed persons everywhere set their faces against this shameful prostitution of one of the otherwise beneficent institutions of the day.-N. Y. Express.

FRUITS OF ABOLITIONISM.
1. The Abolitionists have retarded the extinction of slavery for half a century at least.
2. They have caused many deaths by violence, and sent distress into thousands of families in the slaveholding States.
3. They have, or will have, caused the free negroes to be expelled from most of those States, greatly to their injury or distress.
4. They have caused the slaves throughout the Southern States to be more vigilantly guarded, and more severely dealt with in case of insubordination.
5. They have tied up the hands of anti-slavery men in the slaveholding States, and caused many of them to be expelled or imprisoned, including abolition lecturers, preachers, book peddlers, &c. Or, if some of them have not been expelled, they doubtless soon will be. Many innocent persons are greatly inconvenienced, through unfounded suspicion. A missionary of the Southern Aid Society writes as follows: ‘Only the light of eternity can reveal the extent of suffering caused to innocent thousands by that wretched affair at Harper's Ferry. May God restore peace to our country, and prosperity to his Church in it! '
6. They have greatly damaged the merchants, manufacturers, and, in fact, the whole population of the North, by checking the interchange of commodities with the South, heretofore advantageous to all concerned.
7. They have exposed our nation to the direst calamities, which none but God can wholly avert.
8. They have shown themselves to be without common discernment, or else reckless of consequences to everybody but themselves. Who, after this, would be an Abolitionist?-Journal of Commerce.
The Daily Southern Confederacy is the title of a Georgia journal, which thus fraternally refers to the Union-saving efforts of our merchants, and to their lavish diffusion of the copies of the publications here, abounding in spread-eagle and masonic-grip illustrations of Northern devotion to Southern institutions-and trade:
'It is to the interest of New-York City to court friendly relations with the South. If it was not to their interest, the population, taken as a whole, would not do it. There are good and true men in New-York City; but, like angels' visits, "they are few and far between." That city is a miniature world of rascals, out-threats and swindlers. Sodom and Gomorrah, in the heyday of their wickedness,
<c02>
were Heaven-born places to New-York City. That city is capable of any act of perfidy, of venality, and of deception. The people seek to delude the South by demonstrations of superhuman loyalty to the Constitution and the Union. And this same mercantile interest gets up for distribution in the Slave States, in most elegant pamphlet form, labeled with Union-loving and high-sounding titles, and decorated with hands in fraternal grips, the Union harangues of hired puppets and mauling penny liners. Some of the parties engaged in this enterprise of hoodwinking the South, (for it is usually an enterprise to retain patronage,) are honest and conscientious; but the majority are human fiends, that gape to devour the very vitals of the South.'
Some hundreds of people lie bleeding, crushed, during, in the market-places and under the roof of the City Hall of Lawrence. Writhing in torture, they need the kind offices of that sex which has been vouchsafed to soothe our hours of anguish. Why is it, then, that we do not hear of the presence of Lydia Maria Child at this scene of woe? It is true that she would find no horse-thieves there upon whom to lavish her maternal fondness. Nor could she clasp in a chaste, sisterly embrace the cold-blooded murderers of gray-haired and defenseless men. It is possible that there were not even traitors taken red-handed in the act of inciting to civil and servile war, among the victims of this appalling catastrophe. Perhaps not even a fragment, intellectual, ideal Negro. Can she not for once forget her partialities, and bear with the afflicted, whose only fault to her is their white complexion?-Worcester Bay State.

SELECTIONS.
LETTER FROM WM. S. BAILEY, EDITOR OF THE ‘FREE SOUTH,’ NEWPORT, KY.
Fellow-Citizens of Kentucky, and Friends of the Liberty of the Press:
The many reports thrown into circulation since the ungallant attacks made upon me and my printing office by certain individuals in our city, has moved many of my friends, and the friends of common justice, to inquire into the cause of such an unlawful procedure.
The cause, so far as made known to me on Friday night, October 25th, when they carried off the inside forms and destroyed them, was, that they wanted a charter for a Bank in Newport, and that the Legislature would not grant them one while my paper was printed here. But it is hardly likely that the Kentucky Legislature will grant a bank charter to a party of house-breakers and sackers, to strengthen them in such fearful acts of violence.
Not a word was spoken to me on the subject until the first night of attack,-the combination being a dead secret, unknown to me or any of my friends.
The next day (Saturday 29th) no excuse was offered, but a demand made to enter my office again, to carry off the remainder of my printing material I expostulated with them; told them it would be an injury to their own standing as men, a disgrace to the city of Newport, and no credit to the cause espoused, viz.: slavery. But all the pleadings of myself and family were in vain. They procured a heavy plank, and battered in the door with the end of it, entered, and took out all they could get out, and left the house a perfect wreck.
The heart-rending sorrow of my family, working so many years, night and day, so long as our physical strength would allow, and being harassed by the law for debt, (after the destruction of my former office and machine shop by incendiarism,) sued for slander because I published the truth upon a man who had acted unjustly in his official capacity as sheriff,-wading through all these, trials and troubles of six years duration, and beginning to be able to live a little more comfortable, are now fallen upon us again, and our whole means of subsistence destroyed. To stand by and behold these ravages filled the hearts of my family with irrepressible grief.
It is well known by the citizens of Newport that I have been among the foremost in the encouragement of all our public improvements, and have spent much time and money to that end.
I never was a pro-slavery man, as some have reported since this last outrage upon me. I acted and voted with the Democratic party until I saw it was acting with and encouraging the extension of slavery, and then, as a working man, I left it. Slavery never formed any part of my democracy, and I trust it never will. I believe in liberty,-the freedom of speech and of the press. These my destroyers oppose.
The presses that were arrayed against me here, favoring the institution of slavery, and denouncing me in the bitterest language, were suffered to die for the want of support. Mine, that could live, the same unrelenting spirit that tried to write me down, destroys again by violence.
The money spoken of by my persecutors as having been raised by the people of Newport to aid me when I was burnt out, came not from the mob party, as they infer, but from those who were in favor of the freedom of the press, to whom I ever felt and ever shall feel thankful, notwithstanding that money has been refunded to the parties in cash, in job printing, and in the subscription of my paper, excepting two friends, to the best of my knowledge:-to all of whom I have returned favors when in my power to do so.
The mob party has proclaimed that my paper has not a subscriber in the Tenth Congressional District, and in the next breath say that Republican Clubs are being organized throughout Kentucky, and are gaining strength in Newport and Covington; to stop which, The Free South must be destroyed. Oh, tyranny! Thou with boasted ‘intellect,’ wide-spread 'influence' and wealth, why tremble for thy oppression before the untaught pen of a humble mechanic? Can you not withstand his simple truths, so inelegantly told? Are your 'well-stored Christian minds' inadequate to fashion laws to defend a system yon claim to be Divine? and must you imitate the savage, grasp the pistol and bowie-knife, and hold the lives of unarmed citizens in your hands, while you sack and pillage their houses and destroy the printing press to gain your 'holy' ends? Shame upon the cowardly and ungallant action! The presses arrayed against me here with vindictive scorn and persecution, have long since sunk to an ignominious grave; and you that have destroyed The Free South printing press must fall, alike dishonored and condemned.
The stories told about me as having correspondence with Brown at Harper's Ferry, and the officers there having a letter from me to him, are without foundation or truth. I never saw Mr. Brown-never wrote to, or received a line from him in my life, nor knew anything about his movements until the difficulty was published in the newspapers.
Falsehoods have been thrown into circulation here by persons professing the most frantic terror at the 'horrible' thing I was about to do; that I contemplated the capture of the United States Barracks
<c03>
of this place, intending to arm the negroes here (although there are none to arm) and commence war upon the slaveholders in the State; but how any person could be so credulous as to believe such an extravagant story, is alone with the wicked plotters that destroyed my office to conceive.
Some of the mob party seem to be somewhat abashed at finding they were following in the leadership of a man who had gone into the Kentucky Courts to establish a character, and came out without one,-a jury of Kentuckians, against whom he had no objections, deciding that his character was not worth one cent. This they do not like.
It is not true that the citizens of Newport, or any portion of them, outside of the mob faction, sanctions the lawless outrage upon The Free South. It is a slander upon the liberal sentiments of our people, and on their behalf, as a body, I deny that there is any truth in the declaration.
Slaveholders, as well as non-slaveholders, are readers of my paper in Kentucky, and it is not likely that either of these classes desire any portion of the citizens of Newport to be their judges as to what they shall read or not read.
If we, Kentuckians, cannot discuss the merits or demerits of our own institutions upon our own soil and in our own way, there is no use in talking about liberty or law upon Kentucky soil. It is a question that belongs to the South, rather than to the North, and non-slaveholders should be the last men to raise a hand in defence of a system that brings pecuniary want and degradation upon them.
The object of my friends and myself is to organize a Republican party in Kentucky, and to cast our vote for the Republican Presidential candidate in 1860; and to this end it will be seen we had adopted the Republican platform of 1856, and published it in The Free South, October 21st, 1859. We desire nothing but our constitutional rights as free men, and that right we shall ever contend for.
On the first night of attack, a pocket-book containing one hundred and fifty dollars, which I handed to my wife, and which she lost in the confusion, has not been heard of since.
My loss in printing material and damage to the house is about three thousand dollars.
The anonymous letters that have been published, affecting to warn slaveholders of outbreaks, or insurrections about to take place in different parts of the State, are understood as the product of a guilty conscience to show cause for shameful action.
I have transgressed no law of Kentucky, nor do I intend to do so; but I ask protection from lawless violence in the legitimate publication of my paper. I dislike the taking up of arms, even in self-defence; but, for the righteousness of my cause, the dignity of my State, and the honor of my people, I shall maintain my position, and labor, and I ask the friends of true American liberty to aid me. The spirit of freedom and true greatness is beginning to be planted upon Kentucky soil, and it lily becomes the legal authorities to stand aloof, and suffer the freedom of speech and of the press to be trampled under foot, to stifle that liberty which tyrants in all ages have sought to overthrow.
A Mr. -, professedly of -, Commercial College in Cincinnati, is sending out printed circulars to the country press, filled with lies and slander from beginning to end against me. He is a man I never saw, as I know of, but is one that cannot but be despised, even by those who use him as a tool to aid in crushing me. He should first publish his arguments against me at home, and over his own name, instead of Eclotis, to hide his shame. One of his circulars was sent to the Journal, Winchester, Ind., for publication, but the editor, knowing it to be a tissue of lies and slander, sent him a letter, which, if he will publish in Cincinnati, with his lying circular, he will then have his character fairly before the people he is trying to mislead, and will be estimated according to his worth.
I desire my friends, when writing to me, to address ‘Wm. Shreve Bailey,' Covington, Kentucky, instead of Newport. The reason of this is, that the Postmaster at Newport, John Quincy Adams Foster, took an active part in the mob in destroying my printing office; and I am satisfied the Postmaster at Covington, though a political opponent, would scorn to be found in a mob, putting down by violence what the party cannot sustain by principle, viz.: a printing press.
Respectfully and faithfully your friend,
WM. SHREVE BAILEY.

SPEECH OF CASSIUS M. CLAY.
The telegraph has already announced that this bold champion of emancipation recently made a speech at Frankfort, Ky., in defence of the principles of the Republican party. We find in the Cincinnati Commercial of Jan. 11, the following interesting account of this speech:
An announcement, though from mouth to mouth only, that C. M. Clay would speak somewhere in Frankfort to-night, detained a large number of the Democratic State Convention delegates, and filled the streets at an early hour. It was rumored that he would be attacked if he persisted in speaking during the present excitement, but beyond shutting him out of the State House, no indignities were offered. He said: ‘Kentuckians, the profoundest of historians, Gibbon, said, that of the virtues, courage and sincerity are the greatest. You know that I never speak of my courage, and I regard boasting as one of the worst faults of a class of my fellow-citizens; but the circumstances of to-night justify me in alluding to the proverbial courage of Kentuckians. Relying upon that courage of yours, I come here to-night, one against a million, it may be. As I have gone abroad all over this Commonwealth, it has been insinuated that, as John Brown intimidated Virginia, I intended to bully all Kentucky, and for this reason it would be best to silence me altogether. You know courage is a sufficient rebuke to this.
Your women and children have no fears. There is one who should be sacred from publicity; but I am justified in holding up this letter from Cas. Clay's wife, in which she says nothing of my personal safety. This is of small account indeed; but she hopes that to-night I will vindicate the great cause. I deny the charge that a personal conflict was intended by the announcement, that on the 10th of January, I would reply to passages of the inaugural of Gov. Magoffin and the speech of Vice-President Breckinridge. They are brave and honorable men, but they are fallible. Humble as I am,-not so much as allowed the people's hall to speak in,-I am still a citizen, and shall exercise the rights of one. Whatever has been said against me, you believe I think what I speak. I am an Emancipationist. He is not dangerous who avows his sentiments.'
Mr. Clay alluded to the expulsion of John G. Fee and some nineteen others from Madison county, and declared Fee a pure and upright man, though he (Clay) did not agree with him in his assumption of not being amenable to the laws, and had warned him he would not sustain him therein. He (Clay) fought under the Constitution and the laws; but the act of driving Fee out was lawless and unjustifiable. Fee and his associates had preached no new god,
<c04>
but had built saw-mills and school-houses; and tonight the neglected youth of the mountain districts, who had no other teachers and no other friends, as the reports in your State archives attest, condemn their expulsion. Fee had no Sharpe's rifles, had never approved the act of John Brown, but was a peaceable and devoted Christian preacher. Mr. Clay had written these facts to the Madison county papers and to the Cincinnati papers, but the letters had not been allowed to reach their destination in time so disabuse the popular mind, and the most useful teachers and workers in Madison county were driven forth.
Senator Breckinridge has alluded to the position of Senator Seward in terms that require a protest from me. Elsewhere the statesman of New York will vindicate himself; but here in Kentucky, where the press is not free, and liberty of speech not universal, he has a right to expect defence at my hands.' Mr. Clay proceeded to show that by 'higher law ' Seward intended the same reverent acknowledgment of an overruling Providence and the eternal supremacy of divine law, that every statesman and good citizen acknowledged in other terms. Mr. Clay was impressively eloquent in this part. He next proceeded to defend Seward's expression in regard to the 'irrepressible conflict,' and showed that the Representatives of South Carolina and other Slave States, and the editor of the Louisville Courier, to-day so jubilant over Guthrie's triumph, had announced the 'irrepressible conflict' in more offensive terms. There was an 'irrepressible conflict,' and it became his hearers to examine well before they chose their side: there were hundreds in Frankfort to-night, and tens of thousands in Kentucky, who, if they dared to speak their thoughts, would proclaim opposition not only to a slave code in the Territories, but to slavery here at home.
After these opening remarks, Mr. Clay proceeded to an elaborate argument in vindication of the principles of the Republican party against the aspersions of Breckinridge and Magoffin. The scene in the State House yard was striking. Scores of candles, brought by willing hands, partially dispelled the darkness and showed the heavy frame, the white hair, and the flashing eye of Clay, as he stood in relief against the gray pillars of the capitol. A large number of influential slaveholders were present, but the majority were non-slaveholders, and none knew where they came from. His voice rung out so loud and clear, that all the city within three or four squares were hit audience.

From the National Era.
LETTER FROM CASSIUS M. CLAY.
No discreet friend of the Republican cause will, in advance, attempt to prejudice the claims of any possible candidate of the party. Such is not the way of justice and fair play; and, of consequence, not the way of success.
While I have the highest respect for the character of Mr. Bates of Missouri, and would cheerfully support him if nominated by a Republican Convention, I cannot allow that his claims are to be put up as superior to those of the fathers of the party. We allow him an equality-no more. I know not by what authority the 'Republican leaders' at Washington (if such be the truth, which I disbelieve) venture to dictate a choice of candidates to their peers, the great people of the Republican party Convention assembled. Such Congressional attempt is not new in the history of this country, and its success was such, I think, as not to invite a renewal! They will, of course, have such weight in the Convention as their individual worth, intelligence, and public service will entitle them to, and no more. So far as William H. Seward is concerned, I have never been his partizan; but I know nothing in his personal or political life which would not as much entitle him to 'Old-Line Whig' support as Mr. Bates, unless it be his Republicanism. And if that disqualifies him for their support, then I hope that neither he nor any other Republican will ever get it. I trust the Republicans will never commit the gross folly, the crime, and what an eminent statesman thought worse-the blunder-of allowing our enemies to choose either our platform or our leaders.
I have witnessed with the deepest indignation the attempt of Southern bullies of the Slave Democracy to degrade the distinguished Senator of New-York by slander and denunciation, and to frighten, by threats of treason, weak and timid men from his support.
It is natural that tyrants should fear and hate their most potent foe. But I am not yet ready to believe that he will lose the confidence and manly support of a single Republican on that account. So far as the 'irrepressible conflict' between Free and Slave Labor, or between Freedom and Slavery, is concerned, it is so plainly true that I had not supposed that all the habitual impudence and hypocrisy of the Slave propaganda would venture to deny or conceal it! All I care to say on that head is, that, so far as any man of our party is concerned, if he is fool enough not to see it, or coward enough to avow it, he can never have my support for any office. Our fathers, in forming a mixed Government, were not so silly as to suppose that self-government and the despotic principle of Slavery could forever coexist-they therefore looked and prepared for the extinction of Slavery, by their aspirations, their laws, and their Constitution. It is not the fault of the Republicans if the old barbarian relic of the dark ages, Slavery, should refuse to die a quiet death, and be buried decently, but venture upon an 'irrepressible conflict,' where it will be kicked out of the presence of the nations, and not upon a dung-hill! So far as all those boyish threats of dissolution are concerned, upon the contingency of the election of a Republican President, they will perhaps frighten those who only see the lion's skin; but to us, behind the scenes, the ass is too plain for proper stage effect. I know not what others may intend, but for myself, if Mr. Wise, or Mr. Jeff. Davis, or any other man, aspires to play the 'general' in such cause, as some of their friends intimate, and which I am unwilling to believe, they will turn out abler strategists than they have proven themselves statesmen, if they manage to keep their necks out of a halter! In a word the Republicans, when they constitute the numbers the wealth, the intelligence, the worth of the country, will rule the country; and if war is the consequence- inevitable- I say, with Henry, 'Let it come!'
If there is any such intention as is imputed to the National Committee, I am ignorant of it. If they so far forget what is due to the trust confided to them as to play the partisan of any man, or set of men, there is time enough yet to undo their work.
C. M. CLAY.

APPEAL OF THE KENTUCKY EXILES.
TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
The attention of Christians and all lovers of liberty is respectfully called to the following facts and considerations:
We, the undersigned, residents of Berea, Madison County, Ky., on the 23d day of December, 1859, were waited upon by sixty-two of the most
<c05>
wealthy and influential citizens of the county, who informed us that they had been appointed by the people to remove us from the State; and that if we were found within its burden at the expiration of ten days, they should expel us by force.
We were charged with the violation of no law, but told that the spread of Anti-Slavery sentiments (which we held) endangered their institutions. We were engaged as farmers, artisans, teachers, and ministers, maintaining ourselves by our own industry, (two of us are ministers receiving a partial support from the American Missionary Association,) with no heated seal for any 'ism,' but endeavoring quietly to promote the cause of Christ. We believed, and did not hesitate to declare when the occasion demanded, that Slavery was a moral and social evil, which it was the duty of all good men to oppose. We set ourselves against the spirit of caste, and labored to suppress all feelings of hostility between non-slaveholders and slaveholders, between slaves and masters. In all things we sought wisdom from above, and aimed to exercise that wise discretion which is especially needed by those who hold unpopular opinions.
By the testimony of slaveholders, many of whom we reckon among our personal friends and well-wishers, our presence and labors had so changed that part of the county, that it had become as noted for the upright conduct of its inhabitants, as it once had been for horse-racing and intemperance. We had founded a Literary Institution, which was receiving a liberal patronage from all classes.
The settlement at Berea was increasing in numbers and importance, when, at the news of the Harper's Ferry foray, a wonderful panic seized the people of the county, which was increased by printed announcements, that it had been discovered that an insurrection was soon to break out in Kentucky; that a box of Sharp's rifles, directed to one of our number, had been intercepted, and by other declarations equally false, until a perfect torrent of rage was stirred up against our community, already obnoxious because of its influence in favor of freedom. Honorable men, many of them slaveholders, and the mass of people within a few miles of us, opposed this tide, but were unable to diminish its power. Finding themselves unable to check the rage of infuriated men, and that there was no protection for us by law, although we were not charged with the infringement of a single statute, they with perfect unanimity advised us to retire, for a time, before the storm. Thinking it the part of wisdom to yield to the united request of our friends, whose counsels had the greater weight from the fact that our departure would be to their pecuniary disadvantage, and learning from various reliable sources that a rabble, beyond the control of the Committee who waited upon us, were purposing to take the lives of some of us if we remained, we believed it to be our duty, though in mid-winter, to leave the county. Accordingly, we find ourselves to-day, with our wives and little ones, homeless, and separated from the people with whom we hoped to live and die.
Under these circumstances, we feel constrained to address to you a few words. We do not desire to stir up your anger against our persecutors, for we feel confident that they know not what they do; nor do we wish especially to ask your sympathies in our behalf, but rather that you consider your duty as Christians and patriots, to that multitude of other persons who in various ways are the victims of the system of Slavery.
There are still out-spoken Anti-Slavery men and churches in the South, like ourselves, unprotected by law. They, as well as ourselves, have in vain sought the protection of magistrates and courts, and are daily liable to banishment, or as the alternative, to death. Thousands, if not millions, are deprived of the privilege of free speech on the subject of Slavery, because of that incubus which rests upon them by reason of the support given to the system by the Church and State. We ask you, if you care for freedom of speech, or Christ in the person of his poor, to remove this <illegible>, which is fast becoming a burden too heavy to be borne.
It is a humiliating fact that even yet, in the North, some of the largest denominations of Christians are in actual complicity with this system of outrage and injustice. They give to the iniquity position, and bid it God-speed, by ecclesiastical fellowship.
The same is true of many of the benevolent associations. If, all churchs and associations would treat slaveholding as they do other gross immoralities, soon respectable men would cease to defend or practise the iniquity. It would die of disgrace. Albert Barnes has correctly said: 'Slavery could not live a single day outside of the Church, were it not for the fact that it lives in the church.'
Men at the North, then, have something to do with Slavery. They have long given character and support to it by donations and associations. Let them bring forth fruits meet for repentance by using every righteous means for its removal. Let no one remain silent. Christ is in bonds in the person of his poor.
Men in the North as well as in the South can use another potent instrumentality-political action.
Let them repeal every enactment that in any way gives <illegible> support to the system. Slavery is not a natural state of society. It lives only by statutory protection. Let this protection be taken away, and it falls.
Let the Federal Government be put into the hands of tried and true friends of freedom; then Federal offices in the South will be filled with men who will aid the cause of liberty, and give facilities for the spread of truth and the administration of justice.
The prestige of Government will be on the side of Freedom, and the incubus of a Pro-Slavery Administration removed from thousands who now are silent because they see no way of hope. These thousands will then speak out the true impulses of their natures. Their voice will be like the voice of many waters, and their movements, like mountain avalanches, irresistible.
This foreseen fact but increases our desire to return and preach the gospel of love to all, that the people may be saved from violence. In all instances where a gospel of love has been fully proclaimed, slavery has quietly passed away; but wherever this gospel has been rejected, it has gone out in blood.
The call, then, is not for protection of the colored man alone. That would be sufficient to enlist the zeal of all good men. But the call is that you should so act as to give protection to the white men also; men who have gone there from Free States to do good, and to thousands of native citizens who desire protection in the freedom of speech, and the full exercise of their conscientious convictions.
If, then, the lovers of righteousness, North and South, shall at once do their duty ecclesiastically and politically, lost privileges will be secured to us, freedom to the slave, security to the master, and prosperity to all.
JOHN G. FEE, JOHN G. HANSON,
J. A. R. ROGERS, A. G. W. PARKER,
JOHN SMITH, A. H. TONEY,
E. T. HAYES, J. F. BOUGHTON,
SWINELHURST LIFE, C. E. GRIFFIN.
Cincinnati, Jan. 6th, 1860.
<c06>
LEGISLATURE OF OHIO.
HON. MR. MONROE'S REPORT
On the Bill to Prevent the People of Ohio from Invading the Slave States.
The undersigned, a minority of the committee to which was referred Senate bill No. 1, being a bill to prohibit the people of Ohio from engaging in military expeditions against neighboring States, has had the same under consideration, and begs leave respectfully to submit the following

REPORT:
After the most careful reflection, I find myself, for the following reasons, unable to recommend the passage of the bill:
1. The bill is necessary. It is unnecessary, in the first place, because the offence which it proposes to punish with confinement in the Penitentiary for a period of time not exceeding ten years, is an offence which never has existed, does not exist, and never will exist in the state of Ohio. There is no tendency among our people to engage in military expeditions among other States. I have seen no man, I have heard of no man, who proposes anything of the sort. I am not aware that a single human being in the State even suspected of any such purpose. And although, not long since, Gov. Chase, Gov. Dennison, the whole Republican ticket, and the whole Republican party, were charged with being implicated in an invasion of Virginia, I must be permitted to regard this as a piece of political pleasantry, attended with no evil result except some increased alarm to the people of that commonwealth. Ohio would probably be the very last member of the Union to engage in hostile raids against other States. There is no State which has recently endured so many insults from the slave power of the country, without complaining, as Ohio. The fact itself, that with these outrages upon the liberty of our people fresh in memory, and without having uttered one word of indignation against them, we are now engaged in the unnecessary work of discussing a law to prevent our people from organizing military invasions against slaveholding communities; this very fact, I say, affords evidence of a meekness, a humility and a self-abnegation on our part, which must assign us a very high rank in the cultivation of the milder graces, and ought to give an everlasting guaranty to the world that we shall never wage war upon any other State. Undoubtedly two or three persons who were at Harper's Ferry had formerly resided in Ohio, but not one of them went directly from Ohio to engage in the raid; not one or them formed in Ohio his purpose of so doing; and Ohio is no more responsible for their conduct, than is Canada or Virginia or any other territory in which they may have temporarily remained. Let us then attend to the protection of the invaded liberty of our own citizens-to questions of internal economy at home, and defer legislation of this sort until it shall be needed.
In the meantime, should any portion of our citizens find themselves unexpectedly engaged in military operations such as have been mentioned, they will have difficulties enough to encounter. The Governor of Ohio, as the highest peace-officer of the State, would aid in arresting and confining them, as he would any other rioters-a course which Gov. Chase would certainly have pursued, on a recent occasion, had there been anybody to arrest. Or should any such person succeed in escaping from Ohio and alarming some country village in Virginia, there would be no lack of governments to assume jurisdiction of their case, of courts to try or of ropes to hang them. In the affair at Harper's Ferry, two mighty sovereignties contended for the luxury of strangling an old man and his two negro allies-I mean the Federal Government and the State of Virginia-the Federal Government, however, with that facile urbanity which distinguishes its intercourse with slaveholders, soon conceding the business to Virginia, which took care that it should be dispatched with vigor and promptness. Thus we see that citizens of Ohio, of belligerant propensities, have already every facility for being arrested, imprisoned, tried and choked, without our passing a law to give them in addition, ten years confinement in the Penitentiary.
But such a law as the one proposed is not only unnecessary as a law, but it is unnecessary even as a letter of condolence and sympathy-as an assurance of peaceable intentions to the people of Virginia. Such an assurance they have already received in the letter of Gov. Chase to Gov. Wise. Such assurances they have received from every newspaper of the State-whether Republican or Democratic, commercial or religious. It is not necessary, therefore, to express here, in the form of a solemn enactment, those sentiments of loyalty and patriotism which are an excellent thing in their place, but which more commonly get vent in resolutions, platforms, stump speeches and Fourth of July orations.
2. I am further opposed to this bill, not only because it is, in all points of view, unnecessary, but also because, if passed, it will do a positive injury. It will make an impression altogether different from what its friends intend. If we pass this bill, we shall be regarded as assuming that there is a necessity for it in the character of our people. In the Slave States, the natural inference will be that there is a considerable tendency among our citizens to set on foot hostile expeditions against their territories. The slaveholders of Virginia and Kentucky will say, these people have told us, all along that there is no sympathy among them for these armed assaults upon our institutions, but now they have been compelled to admit that there is such sympathy by passing laws for its suppression. The passage of this bill, therefore, will increase rather than allay the alarm of our southern neighbors, and it will injure rather than improve our reputable standing in the great confederacy of which we form a part. I will never, by voting for this bill, virtually proclaim to the whole nation, that the people of Ohio can be restrained from assaulting their neighbors in other States only by laws providing the severest penalties. On the other hand, our own citizens, knowing, very well, that no hostile demonstration among themselves have given occasion for such a bill as this, will be apt to see in it what its author certainly never intended, a piece of gratuitous servility to the slave power. That is a sort of thing of which the people are becoming tired, and the less occasion we give them to charge it upon us as a legislative body, the better it will be for our reputation.
I object again to this bill, because, should it become a law, it will be made the occasion of harassing and persecuting innocent men. Political feeling on the subject of slavery runs high in the State, and may continue to do so for many years. Experience has shown that warm anti-slavery men will be surrounded by those by whom they will be wrongfully suspected and watched. Prejudice, folly, party rancor and personal enmity will torture innocent words or acts into evidences of plotted rebellion or treason. Then should some new John Brown disturb the peace of Virginia, the man who had ever given him a night's lodging, or, for any purpose, had paid him money, or had sold him a gun or a pitch-fork, or had dared, like Gov. Wise, to pronounce him 'brave, honest, and truthful,' would excite suspicion in minds to which suspicion is congenial, and might in
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . .  No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
many counties he persecuted with informations and indictments. There are laws enough already with which to harass anti-slavery men. I will not, by my vote, give another turn to the screw that tortures them.
I find another objection to this bill in the peculiar circumstances in which we are at present placed, in our relations to the Southern States. The past year has been remarkable for the aggressions of slavery upon the rights of the people of Ohio and other free States. A few months since, several of our most intelligent and peaceful citizens, guilty of the violation of no law, State or National, were taken from their homes, shut up in prison during the most unhealthy season of the year, and finally discharged without trial upon a nolle of their indictments. During the year, peaceable inhabitants of our State have been decoyed by falsehood from the scenes of their useful industry, into the hands of violent and armed men, who, scarcely giving time for even the mockery of an investigation, have hurried them into perpetual slavery. Within a few days, thirty-six citizens of Kentucky a part of them natives, and until recently residents of Ohio-persons whom some of us knew and esteemed-were driven from their little property, and compelled to flee for their lives within our borders. They were charged with no offence but that of holding anti-slavery views. The amplest testimony is borne to their good conduct in Kentucky by slaveholders themselves. They interfered in no case with the relation of master and slave. They everywhere inculcated submission to law. Wisely, kindly, nobly, were they laboring to promote the common prosperity. The value of real estate had quadrupled in the neighborhood where they had settled. They built saw-mills, school-houses, churches, established Sunday schools, and preached the Gospel. And yet, the men who had, done this excellent work, with their frail wives and tender little ones, were ordered from their homes in the midst of one of the bleakest Decembers that Kentucky ever saw, by sixty-five armed and mounted men, who informed them that, if they did not leave the State in ten days, they should receive another visit which should be one of war, and not of peace. Applying to Gov. Magoffin for protection for their property and their lives, they were told with the most refined irony, that he could do nothing for them, but they must seek redress in the courts of justice! Citizens of the North residing at the South-mechanics, merchants, artists, teachers, clergymen-men who are contributing in various ways to the natural and intellectual development of the slave States, are now driven from their adopted homes with the grossest indignities, and frequently with cruel bodily tortures. These sufferers are not generally Abolitionists. They are, for the most part, persons who have been in the habit, when visiting us at the North, of apologizing for slavery as a patriarchal institution attended with many comforts and blessings. What effect their recent experiences may have had upon their views of this subject, I cannot say. 
The last N.Y. Independent, one of the most solid and reliable of the religious newspapers, contains the story of an Irishman who had been at work upon the State House at Columbia, South Carolina. He was a conservative man, and it was his boast that he had always voted the Democratic ticket. But happening to say one day, that he thought slavery rather unfavorable to the prosperity of the poor white man, he was seized, insulted, dragged through the mud, imprisoned, tarred and feathered, tarred and cottoned, and whipped by a negro, 30 lashes upon the bare back, every one drawing blood. He admits that his experiences have somewhat modified his political views.
Such are some of the courtesies and amenities to which citizens of the North, and especially of Ohio, have been treated during the past year. They have not produced in us a good frame of mind for apology and explanation. With the mold of the prison still on our limbs, with the cries of our neighbors who have been dragged into slavery even now ringing in our ears, and with the sting of the whip still on our backs, we feel much more inclined to do something to protect our invaded liberties and insulted honor, than to pass laws to punish our persecuted fellow-citizens for offences which they have never thought of committing. Self-respect forbids that we should select this time, the most unsuitable of all, to extend to our Southern neighbors assurances of regard which they do not need, and which, under the circumstances, I fear, will secure for us nothing but contempt.
When the legislatures of Kentucky and Virginia shall manifest the slightest disposition to repair the wrongs which they are daily inflicting upon natives of Ohio in injury to their persons and the destruction of their property, there will be time enough for us to pass laws to protect them from our own peaceable and industrious citizens. If a man kicks me violently on the street for something which his folly or his madness leads him to suppose I have done, I shall not take the moment when I am smarting with the blow, to express my regards and my regrets. Our Southern neighbors have many noble qualities. They have energy, devotion to an idea,-though a bad one,-and courage. We shall stand the higher in their esteem, and shall the sooner come to a good understanding with them, by exhibiting somewhat of these qualities ourselves.
We have thus seen that the bill under consideration is, in all respects, unnecessary; that, if passed, it would produce an erroneous and injurious impression; that it would be used as a means of persecuting innocent men; and that its passage, under existing circumstances, would be inconsistent with a proper self-respect.
I therefore recommend that the bill be not passed. 
JAMES MONROE.

LEEDS YOUNG MEN'S ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting of this Society was held in the Music Hall, on Thursday the 221 ult. and an additional interest was given to the proceedings by the presence of Mr. Frederick Douglass and Miss Remond, a free-born colored lady. Edward Baines, Esq., M. P., presided, and in addition to the names already mentioned, there were also in the orchestra the Rev. Dr. Crofts, Huddersfield; Rev. Dr. Brewer, Leeds; Rev. J. Mather, Joseph Richardson, Esq., W. Armistead, Esq., Joseph Lupton, Esq., Messrs. J. Andrew, W. H. Pullen, Walker, &c. Sir Peter Fairbairn, the Rev. J. Blomefield, and the Rev. S. Hulme, had also been announced amongst the list of speakers, but were unable to be present, though expressing their sympathy with the meeting.
The CHAIRMAN, on rising to open the meeting, was received with loud applause. He said they were met there to renew the expression of their deep disapprobation of the sin and crime of Slavery, wherever it existed. Were he to indulge merely in his own wishes, or to consult merely their gratification, he should at once call upon Mr. Douglass and Miss Remond to address them; but they must remember the special object for which they were assembled, namely, as far as they could to discharge the duty which they owed to those on the other side of the Atlantic, to exercise some influence, as a meeting of Englishmen assembled in this large and important borough, upon the moral sense, opinions, and convictions of the inhabitants of the United States. They must not, therefore, merely consult their own feelings and wishes, but express their opinions upon this subject, in order that they might go across the Atlantic, and produce whatever influence they might be entitled to there.
After Frederick Douglass and several prominent gentlemen had spoken with great earnestness and ability-
Miss Remond then addressed the meeting in remarks characterized by great impressiveness and eloquence. She said she stood there to represent a race deprived of every privilege, and even of hope. The American law had declared that black men and women had no rights which the white man was bound to respect. To her, that was a solemn and a sad hour. Every letter she received from across the Atlantic brought her tidings of the excitement rocking that land from its centre to its circumference, and she was constantly told-ï¿½Old John Brown sleeps to night in a martyr's grave.' She had no word of censure for him, or for the means which he took to carry out his great idea. She had the honor of being identified with the ultra, the fanatical, the Garrisonian abolitionists of America, and having watched them from childhood's hour, she thought they now occupied a more sublime position than they had ever before realized. What was the condition of America, enfolding within her warmest sympathies and encircling by her strong influence a system so foul and hideous that it called forth the execrations of the civilized world? Turn where they would, whether they regarded the legislative, the executive, the judicial, the political, or the religious opinions of that land, they found that, so far as the
<c02>
majority was concerned, they were wedded to Slavery. American politics have sunk to a depth of degradation which she could not describe, and all the best men in America, with few exceptions, were outside the political arena. Even the Republican party had never dared to go beyond seeking to prevent the extension of Slavery, and they had not yet laid the axe at the root of the tree. Every word of sympathy from English lips would tell in favor of the slave, and she asked them to send their moral protest across the Atlantic against the obligarchy which was crushing her brethren and sisters, and reducing them to the lowest degradation. She referred to the support given to Slavery by the religious and moral sentiment of America, and asserted that if this sentiment was really and truly opposed to Slavery, that curse would go down at once. The clergymen of the States did more to carry out the Fugitive-Slave Law than any other portion of the community, and as a body they had much to answer for in this respect. Miss Remond concluded by an eloquent tribute to the memory of John Brown.

From the N. Y. Independent.
AN EXILE FROM ALABAMA.
Every day fresh instances of banishment are occurring in all parts of the South. Northern men are coming away in armies-driven out of sixteen States, and made exiles in their own country. A purser on one of the Southern Steamers which arrived a few days ago in this city said,ï¿½ We are having crowds of passengers, for we are bringing home all the abolitionists.' The men who are driven away are not generally abolitionists until they become so after their expulsion. A peaceable workman in South Carolina, who never has had a thought about slavery until a mob tars and feathers him, and sends him to New York, becomes very naturally a strong abolitionist by the time be reaches Sandy Hook. In this way, South Carolina is now doing more to make genuine anti-slavery men than all the North together!
Since our last issue, we have been called upon at our office by a fresh exile, who was recently driven away, in a very elegant and polite style, from a very aristocratic circle of society in Alabama. The manner of the expulsion was so dainty and chivalrous that we cannot forbear to relate the circumstances.
Dr. Meigs Case, an intelligent and educated gentleman, formerly of Otsego county, in this State, went to Salem, Alabama, in September last, to take charge of the Alabama Female College. This institution, which had formerly been prosperous, had for some years past been running down under the inefficient management of Southern teachers. Dr. Case, on arriving at Salem, found himself welcomed by the most intelligent part of the community, who said to him, ï¿½We have to look to the North for teachers, for we never yet have found a Southern man who was not too lazy to teach a school!ï¿½ Dr. C. found that the oldï¿½ field-school,' or theï¿½ ten-hourï¿½ system was in vogue in that town, as in many other parts of the State. According to this system, the scholars and teachers go to school at daylight, and stay all day in or around the school-buildings. Each scholar recites, not in a class with others, but by himself. After his lesson is over, he roams about the grounds and indulges himself in a pleasing variety of idle amusements. This constitutes, in Alabama,ï¿½ a day's schooling.'
Dr. C, after receiving assurances of aid from the chief citizens of the place, agreed, to undertake the management of the institution. He immediately began making arrangements for the thorough reorganization of the establishment. His design was to begin the first term with the beginning of the New Year. To this end, he wrote to the North, and engaged the services of assistant teachers, ordered from Northern publishers the necessary school-books, and sent for other members of his family. But while the teachers, the books, and the family were just on the point of starting for the South, he was waited on by aï¿½ Committee on the safety of the Union,' who politely informed him that public opinion, during the last few months, had undergone such remarkable changes, that it was now no longer expedient to' permit the residence of a Northern man in a Southern community. The time had come, they said, when Southern men must be watchful of their institutions, and must rid themselves promptly of all persons whose influence was likely to be cast, in however faint a degree, against the system of slavery. Dr. C. had never made any expression of views on either side of the question; but the fact that he was a Northern man was a sufficient pretext for his banishment. The gentlemen who had given him the most cordial welcome to the place were now the most active in procuring his summary dismissal. They stated, with true chivalric politeness, that they regretted to compel him to leave, but apologized by adding that the state of the times demanded prompt expulsion. They concluded their interview by urging him to quit the place at once, intimating that they could not be responsible for his safety if he remained longer than twenty-four hours. A leading physician in the town, who had professed great friendship for Dr. Case, said to him, in parting,ï¿½ If you had been introduced to our citizens by the Governor of the State, and were as stanch a Democrat as any in Alabama, you still could not be sustained amid the excitement that now pervades all classes of the community.'
At this time a bill was before the lower house of the Legislature, entailing a fine of $500 on any school commissioner who should give a certificate of qualification to any Northern man who had not resided ten years within the State, and who was, moreover, not an owner of slave property! 
Dr. Case, perceiving that to attempt to carry out his projected enterprise would not only be useless but hazardous, determined to take the most prudent course, which was to leave the State within the required time. He is now in this city, where he is in negotiation with several institutions of learning from which he has had application since his return.
If Southern men shall succeed in banishing all Northern teachers, the next generation of the chivalry will scarcely know how to read and write.

From the Chester County Times.
IS THE UNION OF THESE STATES PRACTICALLY DISSOLVED? 
That is a question for our debating schools. 
Let it be considered. The Constitution declares thatï¿½ the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States. And that the freedom of speech or of the press shall not be abridged; and that the people, in their persons, houses, papers and effects, shall be secure.'
In all the slave States, a perfect despotism reigns. Speech is not free, the press is not free. No Northern man can go South, and be free to utter his thoughts, much less write a word against slavery. He is at once mobbed, and by violence driven away.
Persons and papers are not secure. Every petty postmaster through all the South is constituted a spy, and a grand legislator, to rifle the mails and sort out papers and letters which he may think incendiary, and destroy them! Passports are now actually demanded for a Northern man to travel South free from insult, and a personal surveillance worse than that of the Police minions of AUSTRIAN TYRANNY.
In 1856 no citizen in a Southern State dare avow his preference for Fremont for President. And now no person is free to avow his preference for the Republican party. If he does, he is denounced as an Abolitionist, and ordered to leave by a mob. The slaveholding oligarchy exercise a terrible despotism which strikes down all freedom of thought, of the press, of the person, and all security to his private correspondence. What Union can there be with such a people, who, in defiance of all constitutional right, strangle liberty and uphold a despotism worse than is to be found under the most despotic government in Europe? Let our debaters discuss it.
O. P. Q.
THEY DON'T THANK YOU FOR IT. The New Orleans Delta thus discourses about Union Meetings at the North:
ï¿½Here is a fact-a great fact-a fact worth studying about. And are the people of the South to be cajoled into a happy security, because a few hundred merchants, anxious to retain their Southern trade, have, by lavish expenditure of money and other needful appliances, got together a large public meeting, and passed divers and sundry decent resolutions? 
We hope not. 
ï¿½With such indisputable facts as these before them, we doubt whether the sensible and intelligent and reflecting among the Southern people will care much about the grand ï¿½Union meetingsï¿½ lately held in the cities named. Powerless patriotism is of no earthly value, and when the chances are that the powerless patriotism is stimulated by a selfish motive-by a desire to retain an endangered trade, it becomes-well, no matter what, as we are not in the habit of using harsh phrases.'
<c03>
The liberator.
No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JANUARY 27, 1860.
REMEMBER THE TERMS. 
To our Subscribers. Those of our subscribers who have not paid for the current year,-that is, from January 1st, 1859, to January 1st, 1860,-are reminded of the standing rule by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1st, 1860, unless payment for the same be previously sent in.
The Financial Committee, in calling attention to the above standing rule, would also ask every subscriber, for the sake of the cause, as well as for the sake of the paper, to do what in him lies to extend the circulation of the Liberator, at least to the extent of procuring each one an additional name for our list.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Jan. 26th and 27th. The day meetings (morning and afternoon) will be held in the MEIONAON, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M. The evening meetings will be held in the TREMONT TEMPLE, commencing at 7.
Among the speakers confidently expected to be present are the following: 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, C. C. BURLEIGH, CHARLES L. REMOND, WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. FOSS, THEODORE TILTON, Esq., of New York, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, T. W. HIGGINSON, of Worcester, Rev. U. M. FISX, of Taunton, Rev. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAM, Dr. ROCK. 
In behalf of the Board of Managers, 
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

JUSTICE TO JOHN BROWN. 
Our friend John G. Whittier (see his letter on our last page) wholly misapprehends the point of our criticism, respecting his poetical effusion upon Brown of Osawatomie,' as published in the New York Independent. We did not mean to imply that he had departed from his peace principles, in the various extracts we made from his soul-stirring praductions; but only that, in his references to Bunker Hill, and Lexington, and Yorktown, &c. &c, he recognized whatever was noble in the spirit and conduct of our revolutionary fathers, without passing any condemnation upon them in juxtaposition with his commendations, as in the case of John Brown. We find no such phrases asï¿½ the rash and bloody hand,' ï¿½the guilty means,' the folly that seeks through evil good,' the raid of midnight terror,'ï¿½ the outlaw's pride of daring,' &c, but thrilling appeals in the loftiest etrains of heroic appreciation-
'By every shrine of patriot blood,
From Moultrie's wall and Jasper's well;
By storied hill and hallowed grot,
By mossy wood and marshy glen, 
Whenes rang of old the rifle-shot 
And hurrying shout of Marion's men; 
And by each spot of haunted ground. 
Where Freedom weeps her children's fall-
By Plymouthï¿½s Rock, and Bunker's mound-
By Griswold's stained and shattered wall-
By Warren's ghost-by Langdon's shade-
By all the memories of our dead!'
What we desired to suggest to our friend Whittier,-to whom the cause of impartial liberty is so immensely indebted for his efforts in its behalf,-was, that, in every point of view, Harper's Ferry deserves as honorable a reference in song asï¿½ Moultrie's wall' and Jasper's well,' or as Eutauï¿½s haunted wood' andï¿½ Bunker's mound'-
ï¿½Where rolled the storm of Freedom's war!ï¿½ 
and that John Brown, in perilling-ay, and in losing his life to deliver the slaves of Virginia from their thraldom, ought (to say the least) to take rank with ï¿½ Warren's ghost and Langdon's shade.' That's all!

CONVENTIONS IN NEW YORK.
A series of Anti-Slavery Conventions is now in progress in the State of New York. They are attended by AARON M. POWELL and SUSAN B.ANTHONY, of New York, PARKER PILLSBURY, of New Hampshire, and MARIUS R. ROBINSON, of Ohio, all able, eloquent, and faithful advocates of the cause. The first convention was held at Lockport, Jan. 5th and 6th, Rev. Mr. Judson presiding. A correspondent says, ï¿½The people listen with an unusually thoughtful attention, and with more hearty expressions of approval than I have before known, in response to the most ultra disunion sentiments of the speakers.'
The second convention was held in Buffalo, January 10th and 11th. It opened with a meeting of four hundred persons, and continued to be well attended to the close. And this, notwithstanding the Express, the Republican organ, had thrown all the obstacles it could in the way of the convention, and on Wednesday morning gave a very discouraging and mendacious notice of the first day's meetings. The results were highly auspicious for the progress of the cause.
The third convention was in Rochester, and was also, as we learn, well attended and successful.
The fourth and fifth conventions, at Auburn and Utica, are well spoken of by our correspondent A. M. Powell. From other sources, also, we hear glowing accounts of the bold and eloquent utterances of the, speakers, and of the very deep and protracted attention of the audiences.
The sixth convention,-and latest of which we have had any report,-was held in Syracuse. We learn that Messrs. May, Loguen, and others of that city, say that so powerful and stirring a meeting, on the subject of slavery, has not been held in Syracuse for many years. At the closing meeting, the large Hall was filled with a very intelligent and attentive audience till nearly eleven o'clock.
From various sources we learn that Messrs. Pillsbury, Robinson and Powell have most ably spoken.
ALBANY, THE CITY OF CONVENTIONS. It will be seen by the advertisements of the New York State A. S. Society, and Woman's Rights Conventions, that the first week of February is to be, most decidedly, a week of Conventions in ALBANY.
The strong array of the names of our very best speakers gives promise of a rare treat to all who shall attend.
Mr. Robinson, Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Gage and Mrs. Cutler, though not widely known here in the East, are, all of them, able speakers. Phillips, Pillsbury, Gibbs, Powell, Antoinette Brown, &c. need no word from us. 
For the benefit of our country friends we would' say, that in addition to speaking at both the Anti-Slavery and Woman's Rights Conventions, Mr. Phillips is to give his lecture on ï¿½Toussiant 1ï¿½Ouverture,ï¿½ before the Young Men's Association, on Thursday evening, Feb. 2d.
Is it not a ï¿½golden' week?
NOTICE. The Committee on Federal Relations, of the Legislature of Massachusetts, have appointed Wednesday, Feb. 8th, at 10 o'clock, A. M., as the time for hearing the Petitioners for a Law prohibiting Slave-Hunting within the borders of Massachusetts.
Let every effort be made to get all the petitions in before that time. 
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER-NO. OCXVII-for January, 1860, made its appearance promptly. The following is its table of contents:-1. The Women of Homer. 2. The Dark Places in the Divine Providence. 3. The Study of Nature. 4. Pestaloxzi. 6. Slavery in the Territories. 6. The Messiah of the Jews. 7. Novels of 1859. 8. Review of Current Literature. New Publications received.
<c04>
NEW PULBLICATIONS.
CORRESPONNDENCE BETWEEN LYDIA MARIA CHILD AND GOV. WISE AND MRS.MASON,OF VIRGINIA. New York: Published by the American Anti-Slavery Society. 1860.
This Correspondence has already attracted the attention of the country by the publicity which has been given to it through the press; and the verdict, as between the parties concerned, has been unanimously, that Mrs. Child has ï¿½pulverised' Governor Wise, who is none the less foolish on account of his name, and thoroughlyï¿½ used up' Mrs. Mason, whose assurance is equalled only by her folly. There are thousands of persons who will be glad to get this neatly printed tract; and they can do so very easily, as it is to be obtained at the Anti-Slavery offices in New York and Boston, at the low rate of five cents a copy, fifty cents a dozen, or three dollars and a half by the hundred. We wish a copy of it could find an entrance into every household throughout the North; for it would do much towards effecting that change in public sentiment on the subject of slavery, which will work the overthrow of the slave system by the majesty of moral power, without the aid of invasion or insurrection.
The following letters are contained in this correspondence:-1. Letter of Mrs. Child to Gov. Wise, asking leave to perform a mission of humanity in behalf of the wounded Brown. 2. Reply of Gov. Wise,-an attempt at civility, but an unsuccessful one, and intimating that, while he would do his best to protect Mrs. C., she had better not make the experiment. 3. Mrs. Child's rejoinder. 4. Explanatory letter of Mrs. Child to the Editor of the New York Tribune. 5. Mrs. Child to John Brown. 6. Reply of John Brown. 7. Mrs. Mason to Mrs. Child. 8. Reply of Mrs. Child.
These letters furnish texts for a volume of comments. The first, by Mrs. Child, was written without the slightest idea of its getting into print, or drawing upon herself any public observation or personal criticism.ï¿½ My proposal,' she says,ï¿½ to go and nurse that brave and generous old man, who so willingly gives his life a sacrifice for God's oppressed poor, originated in a very simple and unmeritorious impulse of kindness.ï¿½ Of course, at that time, she was not aware that Mrs. Brown was living, upon whom the care of the suffering martyr would naturally devolve. She frankly tells Gov. Wise that she has beenï¿½ for years an uncompromising abolitionist'; and that, while she is a believer in peace principles, she also believes that theï¿½ enslaved every where are best entitled to take up the sword to achieve their freedom, if fighting be justified by our religion'; but she pledges her word of honor,
'which was never broken,' that she will use the permission asked for' solely and simply for the purpose of nursing the prisoner, and for no other purpose what soever.'
For this proffered act of Christian kindness on the part of this gifted and noble woman, she has been ridiculed and vilified in the most shameful manner, not only by the Southern press generally, but by many Northern journals, ('Democratic,' of course,) animated by a like fiendish spirit. See one of these malignant articles in theï¿½ Refuge of Oppression' this week, from the Worcester Bay State-the author of which reveals himself as a blackguard of no common stamp. Besides all this, Mrs. Child has had letters sent to her from all parts of the South, couched in the most indecent, profane and abusive language,-all indicating how frightful is the demoralization engendered by the slave system, in the sphere of which all virtue dies and all manhood disappears, and the overthrow of which must be speedily effected, or our nation is doomed.
NEGRO SLAVERY UNJUSTIFIABLE. A Discourse (preached in 1802) by the late Rev. Alexander McLeod, D. D., Pastor of the First Reformed Presbyterian Church, New York. Tenth Edition. New York: Published by Alexander McLeod, 85 Broad and 43 South William Street. 1860.
This is a remarkable discourse-first, on account of its moral force and logical reasoning-and next, with reference to its uncompromising character, and the early period at which it was delivered, nearly sixty years ago. Its teachings were never more applicable, and never more needed, than at the present time, whenï¿½ the sum of all villaniesï¿½ is now audaciously and impiously defended and gloried in by the whole body of Southern men-stealers, ï¿½ whose damnation is just,' and for whom there is nothing in the future but 'a fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation.' Dr. McLeod lays down, and sustains with consummate ability, the following proposition:-'The practice of buying, HOLDING, or selling our unoffending fellow-creatures as slaves is IMMORAL.' It isï¿½ an attempt to reduce a moral agent to a mere machine, whose motions are to be regulated by external force.' It is ï¿½opposed to the general tenor of the Sacred Scriptures.' This proposition is afterward weakened by the qualifying phrase,ï¿½ To hold any of our fellow-men in PERPETUAL slavery is sinful'-as if it were a question of time, and not a malum in se! But Dr. McLeod, by that phrase, does not apparently mean to connive at individual slaveholding as such for an hour, but only to assert the authority of government as against heinous transgressors. Thus, he says-'A man, by the abuse of his powers, to the injury of society, may. deserve slavery, in the fullest sense of the word, in order that his punishment may be a sanction to the law-may be an example to others-and may compensate, as much as possible, for the injuries done to society.' Butï¿½ slavery, in the fullest sense of the word,' Dr. McLeod being witness,ï¿½ is an attempt to reduce a moral agent to a mere machine,' and therefore outrages all his faculties and powers. What body of men, or what government, on any pretence, has a right to perpetrate such a deed? With this exception, this discourse is worthy of all acceptation. We shall make some extracts from it hereafter.
A SERMON ON THEï¿½IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.' Preached by Rev. N. A. Staples, on Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 24th, 1859, and published by request. Milwaukee: Strickland & Co., 1859.
We are truly gratified at the increasing number of able, eloquent and cogent sermons in opposition to the great distinguishing sin of our land, because it is a sure indication of a growing and wide-spread sentiment at the North, favorable to the cause of universal emancipation. Mr. Staples is an acute reasoner and an earnest advocate. As a specimen of his sermon, we subjoin the following extract:-
ï¿½Slavery is now called a ï¿½Divine Institution"! It is now thought to be good and beautiful in itself. ï¿½Now," says the Richmond Enquirer,ï¿½ all thinking men in the South are persuaded that Slavery is the normal condition of the Negro; that it is justified by the sanction of God's revealed, as well as natural law; that it is an instrument of Providence in working out the material and moral development of Civilization; and that it is a wise, salutary, and beneficial institution of Christian (?) society."
These great discoveries, it declares, are the fruits of abolition agitation! How grateful Virginia ought to feel to the abolitionists! What a convenient blessing to find out that she has been piously serving God all this time, in holding slaves, whereas she had only made up her mind to hold slaves ï¿½whether or noï¿½! Perhaps it is in gratitude to the abolitionists, for these favors received, that she has set apart the 2d day of December next, for the purpose of solemnly enrolling among hero martyrs the name of John Brown!
This great change in the defence of Slavery has imposed new duties upon its votaries. Slavery is now one of the Sacraments of American Christianity. It is not only to be tolerated, but it must be loved, as the normal condition of the descendants of Ham, and as being in full harmony with their relation to the Father of us all! For if it is such a blessing, then it must be a Christian duty to extend it to all the posterity of Ham. We must open the slave trade, and take up contributions in our churches on communion days, not to send out missionaries, but to fit out slave ships, and bid them catch, buy or steal as many of the sons of Ham as can be crowded into the ï¿½middle passage." And not only so, but the poor, benighted
older than Satan, nor has it figured more extensively in history, yet neither age nor service has made him divine, nor secured him from a final doom!'
<c05>
colored men and women who have escaped from their normal condition, or never found it-all these should be sent back into their providential position of Slavery!
Yes, we must, as far as it is possible, become slaveholders ourselves, upon the same principle that we should become members of Churches, Bible Societies, and benevolent fraternities, so as to discharge all our Christian duties. This is sober logic. If we admit the ï¿½divinenessï¿½ of Slavery, we thereby enforce the duty of doing all in our power to extend it. The South is right here.
But why is Slavery called divine? I have already shown that it is not because it makes man divine; not because it ennobles man, and side him in becoming more like the Deity,-for its tendency is the very opposite-to make him more and more like a brute. By what reasoning, then, is this blasphemy justified? It is called divine: 1st. By that convenient philosophy which says that whatever is, is divine. Slavery is; therefore, Slavery is divine. Stripped of all its false coverings, this style of argument is arrowed into that syllogism. But that spoils itself in this case, by proving a great deal too much. Whatever is, is divine, Murder is; therefore, murder is divine! War, drunkenness, licentiousness, adultery, theft, are; therefore, they are divine. Or worse, yet: Whatever is, is divine. Abolitionism is; therefore, Abolitionism is divine.
This argument is good for nothing, therefore, towards proving the divinity of Slavery; for it serves equally well to prove the divinity of the devil-which about the same thing. It is to no purpose that the objector repeats this old plea: Slavery always has ten permitted; it is one of the oldest of institutions; it always will be permitted, and it is therefore divine, and there is no use in trying to remove it. I hold him to this fact: that Slavery is not older than Satan, nor has it figured more extensively in history, yet neither age nor service has made him divine, nor secured him from a final doom!'
MAN BETTER THAN A SHEEP. A Sermon preached Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 24th 1859, by Joshua Young, Minister of the Unitarian Church, Burlington, Vt. Published by request. Burlington: E. A. Fuller, Bookseller and Stationer. 
The author of this excellent discourse is the worthyï¿½ minister who travelled more than forty miles, under circumstances of considerable peril and difficulty, to be present at the burial of the body of John Brown at North Elba, and who, by his remarks, added much to the impressiveness of the occasion.
In this discourse, he takes rational, and we believe scriptural views of the Sabbath question, such as were entertained by Luther, Calvin, Belsham, Bunyan, Roger Williams, Whitby, Paley, &c., &c. We have room but for a single paragraph, but shall try to publish it entire ere long:-
'The Sabbath was made for Man, and not Man for he Sabbath: therefore the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath.
'Behold, my friends, the greatness that Jesus asserted for man! Man is notï¿½ a secondary appendage to this system of things, but its centre and prime object." He is Lord of the Sabbath. He is Lord of any Institution, or Constitution, or Government, or State. What man makes, man can unmake. He is Lord of all this lower world, and heir to heaven.ï¿½ Jesus struck not at a day, but at a principle." He aimed his blow not at some mere over-scrupulous observance, but at a false and mischievous Idea. There is no intrinsic sacredness in any institution. All the sacredness there is, is in the nature of Man, whose necessities the institution is ordained to serve, and has in itself no sanctity at all, save by virtue of its accordance with that nature.'
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE BEFORE THE NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLEGE-delivered at the opening of the Term of 1859-60, by MABIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D., Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children.
A very sensible, instructive lecture, showing the progress of medical science, and the necessity of the highest qualifications in the physician, by one who, by her medical proficiency and noble perseverance in her broad sphere of humanity, as well as her many fine qualities, is deserving of warm commendation. We congratulate the Female Medical College upon her connection with it, not doubting that its usefulness and reputation will thereby be enhanced. In concluding her lecture, she says-
'Conscientiousness is, perhaps, the most important virtue of the physician, and also for the student. Before commencing, the student as well as the practitioner should stop, and think, and ask whether his reasoning or his actions about the subject could bear the closest examination before his conscience. To become a physician is a great undertaking: it is not to be compared with any other business, nor with any other profession. The doctor of divinity who administers to the soul, the doctor of laws who cures the real estate, may have an influence upon the lives of many, but it is only indirectly: the doctor of medicine has the same indirect influence, but also the direct.'

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT, COMMEMOBATIVE OF THE WORTH AND SERVICE OF JOHN BROWN, OF OSAWATOMIE.
This is a full report of the speeches made and the resolutions adopted by the citizens of Cleveland, at a meeting held in the Melodeon, on the evening of the day on which John Brown was sacrificed by the Commonwealth of Virginia; together with a Sermon preached by Rev. A. Crooks, on Sunday, Dec. 4-the whole making a pamphlet of 62 pages.
Pains should be taken to circulate this valuable pamphlet extensively at the West. Its motto is peculiarly well chosen, taken from the Liberty Pole in Rockford, which was dressed in mourning, with the national flag at half mast:-
'When our citizens are hanged for attempting to carry out the principles of the Declaration of Independence, and the freedom of speech at the Capital of the Republic is suppressed, it is mete that the people should mourn.'
We can only briefly state what was done at Cleveland, on the day alluded to. The bell of the Second Baptist Church was tolled from half past 10 to 11 o'clock; the bells of all the other churches were silent. Across Superior street, from the Bennet House to Rouse' s Block, was stretched a banner, deeply bordered with black, with the words of Brown, ï¿½I do not think I can better honor the cause I love than to die for it.' Several places of business in the city were closed during the day. Melodeon Hall was draped in mourning for the meeting held there in the evening. The stage was hung with heavy folds of crape, caught up with white rosettes. Around the gallery were folds and festoons of crape, with white rosettes. Festoons of crape hung from the walls, the girders, and the chandeliers, while the pillars were wound with the insignia of mourning. 
Over the centre of the stage hung a large and fine photograph of the Hero of Harper's Ferry, in gilt frame encircled with a wreath. Above this was the motto,-
'AMERICUS HUMANIS GENERIS.'
On the left of the picture was,-' JOHN BROWN, the Hero of 1859,' and on the right-' He being dead, yet speaketh.' Still further to the right were the following: ï¿½The end crowns the work'-'If I had interfered in behalf of the great, the wealthy and the wise, no one would have blamed me.'-John Brown to the Court of Virginia:-and on the left were the following:ï¿½ Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them'-' His noble spirit makes despots quail, and Freedom triumphs.' 
The whole was arranged with fine effect, and showed that the ladies had been in no wise inattentive.
The number of persons present, and the character of the meeting, are stated as follows by the Cleveland Morning Leader.-
ï¿½As early as half-past six o'clock, the dense throng crowding into the Melodeon testified to the universal interest felt in the nature and objects of the meeting and at seven o'clock there was not a vacant seat in the hall, and the standing-places were all occupied. There were not less than 1400 persons in the hail, about one-third of whom were ladies. The strictest attention was given to the exercises throughout-deep, earnest attention.'
J. H. W. TOOHET called the meeting to order, and introduced the Rev. Mr. BREWSTER, of the Wesleyan Church, who read the following passages of Seripture Epistle of James, 5:1st to 18. First Timothy, 4: 10th to 18th. First Corinthians, 15: 19th to 34th.
<c06>
Prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. Crooks. Mr. J. H. W. Toohey presented the following Resolutions:-
Whereas, The ï¿½peculiar institution' has this day made strikingly manifest its baneful influence upon the ï¿½rights of man,' by inflicting the John Brown, of Osawatomie, for a conscientious observance of the law of brotherhood, as inculcated by Jesus Christ, and the law of freedom as taught by Thomas Jefferson:
Resolved, That the system of negro slavery, as it now exists in some of the States of the American Confederacy, is but the ï¿½experiment of despotism,' which lives upon concessions, and becomes lusty upon conciliations and compromises. It is, in the words of Wesley, ï¿½the sum of all villanies,' and can only be subdued by giving it, in the Southern parlance, ï¿½war to the knife, with the knife to the hilt.'
Resolved, That the State of Virginie, under the lead of Henry A. Wise, is a contemptible caricature of the ï¿½Old Dominion' in the days of George Washington and George Mason. She was once aptly called ï¿½The Mother of Presidents.' She may now, with equal propriety, be termed ï¿½The Mother of Slaves.' She is afflicted with frightful visions of armed invaders, and with a luxuriantly guilty conscience, her chivalry flee when pursued by shadows. They are ready to cry out with the ï¿½Humpback'-
'By the Apostle Paul, shadows to-night
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard,
Then could the substance of ten thousand soldiers,
Armed in proof.' 
Resolved, That, for their conduct in the Harper's Ferry war, whenï¿½ one man chased a thousand.' and in the sequel to that war, whenï¿½ ten thousand' put the ï¿½one man' to death, the spurs should be hacked from the heels of the chivalry of Virginia; the bearings on their State Shield reversed; and, instead of the prostrate despot with his broken manacles, and the spirit-stirring motto, ï¿½Sic Semper Tyrannis,' their heraldic devices should be fetters, handcuffs and bowstrings, with a ï¿½Son of Liberty' on a gibbet, bearing the significant inscription,-'Degeneres Animos Timor Arquit.'
Resolved, That it was in exact keeping with the character and conduct of the citizens of South Carolina, who had furnished a bully to beat down Freedom's Champion in the Senate Chamber, to furnish a halter to hang Freedom's Champion at Harper's Ferry. The People of the North have ï¿½food for reflection.'
Resolved, that we fully agree in sentiment with those fathers of the Republic, who, before the adoption of the Constitution, and while that instrument was undergoing examination, patriotically exclaimed, ï¿½However desirable a union of these States may be, the preservation of our liberties is still more desirable.' We have, by force of circumstances, become convinced that the ï¿½irrepressible conflictï¿½ is upon us, and that it will never terminate until ï¿½Freedom or Slavery go to the wall.' In such a contest, and under such a dire necessity, we say, ï¿½without fear and without reproach,' let Freedom stand, though the Union be dissolved!
We further say, that any religion that sanctions or apologizes for a government that authorizes human Slavery and legalizes murder, is barbarous in spirit, evil in tendency, and in virtual fellowship with the ï¿½sum of all villanies.'
Resolved, That John Brown, who, in his life, was a thorn in the side of the oppressor, has, in his death, become to the Slave Power ï¿½more terrible than an army with banners.' His eulogy is best spoken by his executioner-'He possesses the greatest integrity, truthfulness and courage that I ever met.'
Resolved, That, however much we mat lament the death of the devoted Brown, we are satisfied that his execution will bring confusion upon his enemies, and do more to overthrow the bulwarks of Slavery than a long life of philanthropic deeds, with a peaceful exit. We horror his memory! Posterity will give him a monument as indestructible as their aspirations for FREEDOM.
Judge Tilden moved that the Resolutions be severally read and acted upon. In accordance with this motion, the first resolution was read, and carried without dissention.
The second was carried with one dissenting vote.
The third resolution was carried with the dissent of two or three votes in the gallery.
The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth resolutions were adopted by votes equally unanimous.
A. G. Riddle, Esq., was then elected Chairman for the evening.
The meeting was then tersely and eloquently addressed by Judge Spaulding, Judge Tilden, Rev. W. H. Brewster, C. H. Language, J. W. H. Toohey, Mr. Riddle, and Rev. James C. White.

THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT IN AUBURN.
DEAR LIBERATOR:
Three of the New York Conventions you have advertised have been successfully held,-at Lockport, Buffalo and Auburn. The sessions of these Conventions have been well attended, some of them crowded. At Auburn, the intelligent audiences received the most radical views, with, apparently, a thoughtful earnestness in harmony with the importance of the cause and its principles. One feature of this Convention I wish could be more common. Its officers were competent,-and women. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Stanton, of Seneca Falls, discharged the duties of Secretary. The quiet, earnest, immovable fidelity to the slave-to principle, which characterized the Convention, seemed to me not more the result of the speeches delivered, than of that silent, yet, to the audience, appreciative moral power which emanated from the women of the platform and the audience. Their words were few-too few-yet were they all words fitly spoken. As a presiding officer, Mrs. Wright would give high character to any deliberative body.
The papers of Auburn treated the Convention in a manner which contrasts honorably with that of the Republican press of Buffalo, which, in addition to its misrepresentation and abuse, added extortion, for the little advertising service it rendered. Both of the daily papers of Auburn published the resolutions, which were of the most uncompromising character and with their forcible diction, terse logic, and clear moral truth, went straight to the consciences of those who heard; and no more valuable moments of the Convention were spent than in their reading, which was repeatedly called for.
The impudent proposition of Government Letcher to sent ï¿½Virginia Statesmen'-their hands reeking with the fresh blood of Northern citizens-to tamper with Northern legislation, gave rise to some earnest words, and awakened indignation, alike in speakers and hearers.
As we were walking to the depot, after the close of the Convention, a Democrat who had been a constant attendant thereon, crossed over the street to salute us, and to say, that-'Long enough he with other Northern Democrats had combined with slaveholders to crush out freedom. The party was doing nothing else. They were sick of it. It was now high time for them to join the Abolitionists, and crush out the slaveholders.'
Such declarations, to which we frequently listen, would afford a significant hint to the Republicans party, but its seems too dull to heed it. If, now it would make a palpable, real issue with the Democrats, it might make thousands of converts from their ranks. But it will not do it, unless the Washington Investigating Committee conclude to follow Bennett's programme, and hand all the Republican candidates for the Presidency. Like Greeley, the party will probably be entirely ï¿½satisfied' with John Bell, the Tennessee slaveholder; and, if so, it with deserve defeat, and a Whig death. For myself, I must confess that the contemplation of such an event awakens in me no spirit of prayer that justice should be either averted or delayed. Honest Democrats who prepare to leave their party, do it that they may advance to a better. Certainly they cannot be expected to stultify themselves by affirming any practical difference, in favor of freedom, between Bell and Buchanan. And, as an abolitionist, I cannot see that it would be any more disagreeable to be hung by Marshal Rynders than by Marshal Tom Corwin, the volunteer headsman; for it is not at all likely that, in case of Bell's Republican success, the largest toadies that hop in a puddle can hope for any higher reward than the U. S. Marshalship 
Yours, H. R. ROBINSON.
JANUARY 27.
THE LIBERATOR.
15
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ANTI-SLAVERY RESOLUTIONS.
‘IN PLAIN ENGLISH.’
The following constitute the series of Resolutions discussed at the recent Anti-Slavery Conventions held at Buffalo, Auburn, Utica, &c., at which Parker Pillsbury, Marius R. Robinson, Aaron M. Powell, and Susan B. Anthony were present. Let the nation ponder them well!
Resolved, That the American slave system is ‘the sam of all villanies’-a compound of all cruelties and crimes, robbery, adultery, piracy and murder, and Whatever else is impure, unholy and accursed.
Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, have no rights which any human being is bound to respect, not even to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness-but, while remaining in purpose and practice slave-holders, they should be regarded as criminals and outlaws against humanity, whom Gen. Lafayette. Capt. John Brown, or any other righteous deliverer who believes in forcible resistance to tyrants, may lawfully and justly compel to release their prey.
Resolved, That our governmental union with such slaveholders is a sin and a crime, an atheistic rebellion against every principle of justice, and every law of nature and of God: which no possible circumstances could have warranted in its formation, and surely no conceivable conditions justify in its longer continuance.
Resolved, That the first threat of disunion from the South should have been hailed with general joy by all the friends of the enslaved, inasmuch as the only assurance for the continuance of slavery is in the support it derives from the Union and alliance with the North
Resolved, That the so-called governments of the slave States are but organized bands of thieves and robbers, living by plunder and piracy on the avails of unpaid and unpitied toil; therefore,
Resolved, That it is the solemn and imperious duty of the Senators and Representatives of the non-slave-holding States and Territories to return at once to their respective constituencies, and to take immediate measures for the formation of a New Northern Republic, which shall indeed be Free; an asylum for the oppressed of all nations; uncursed by the presence of slaveholders, unstained by the blood of slaves.
Resolved, That the Church of the slaveholding States, that permits and practises the breeding, buying and selling of God’s own image like cattle, the trampling down of marriage and the whole family relation, forbidding its own Bible and all other books to the enslaved, is most emphatically the ‘Synagogue of Satan’; and every church and minister in the North who does not so regard and treat it, is false to the Christian name and trust, and therefore unworthy of countenance, fellowship or support.
Resolved, That, cheered and encouraged by the experiences of the last year, in our efforts to secure the enactment of a Personal Liberty Law, to protect our State from the presence and ravages of the slavehunter and kidnapper, we will persevere in petitioning the Legislature, until our object, at once so just and needful, shall be accomplished.
Whereas, by recent disclosures of the Postmaster General, Northern newspapers have, in several instances, been excluded from the mails and post-offices of the slave States, on the charge of publishing and circulating ‘abolition sentiments,’ dangerous to the security of slavery and the general safety; therefore,
Resolved, That we congratulate the friends of the enslaved everywhere, that in the New York Herald they have found a safe and zealous medium for the transmission throughout the South of the most powerful and eloquent utterances against the slave system, of Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Theodore Parker, Dr. Cheever, and many other champions of liberty in both hemispheres.
Resolved, That the thanks of the American Abolitionists generally are due to James Gordon Bennett, Esq., for so earnestly espousing their cause in this hour of their trial and persecution by the Government. How can we refrain from expressing our admiration at the almost superhuman skill with which he is able to freight his columns, week after week, with what are called the ‘ most treasonable, murderous, incendiary, inflammatory and insurrectionary doctrines,’ and pour them all over the South, as if they were sermons on the ‘Fall of Man,’ by our safest and soundest Doctors of Divinity, or the publications of the American Tract Society.
Resolved, That whatever other public journal shall be proscribed, we trust the New York Herald will be allowed the most uninterrupted circulation possible throughout the Slave States, carrying, as it does, all the arguments of Helper against slavery—all imaginary encouragement to the slaves to rebel against their tyrant masters, in the spirit of our own Revolution of 1776; and assuring them at the same time, (though in that assurance we are compelled to differ from this most veracious journal,) that the North is filled with men like General Lafayette and Captain John Brown, anxiously and impatiently waiting to come to their rescue.
Resolved, That we have read without surprise the Message of Governor Letcher, of Virginia, to the Legislature of that State, in which he insolently and Insultingly recommends that ‘two most experienced statesmen be appointed to visit the Legislatures of those States which have passed laws to obstruct the execution of the Fugitive Slave Act, and insist, in the name of Virginia, upon their unconditional repeal.’
Resolved, That we trust our Legislature will deem such a threat, from such a source, a strong reason for hastening the enactment of a law which will preserve the State of New York effectually and forever from the prowling ravages of the kidnapper and slavehunter.
Resolved, That when Thomas Jefferson declared that
‘Nothing is more certainly written in the book of fate, than that the slaves are to be free; nor is it less certain that the two forms of society cannot be perpetuated under the same government’;—
And Henry Clay, that
‘Until universal darkness shall prevail, it will be impossible to repress the sympathies and the efforts of freemen in behalf of the unhappy portion of our race who are doomed to bondage’;-
And the Richmond Enquirer, that
‘The two opposite and conflicting forms of society cannot, among civilized men, coexist and endure. The one must give way, and cease to exist—the other become universal’;
And William H. Seward, that 
‘The collision between the two systems of labor in the United States is an “irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces” -they did but echo the voice and decree of the Eternal God, that between Slavery and Liberty there can be and shall be no concord; but everlasting separation, wide as the difference between heaven and hell.
Resolved, That the Democratic party, in denying that doctrine, only asserts its own daring depravity and downright atheism-and the Republican party, whenever it shrinks from it, in a loyal homage rendered to Slavery under the demands of the Constitution, and especially when it selects its most compromising and conservative men as candidates for office, on the ground of availability, and in deference to their slave-breeding allies at the South, proves itself also unequal to the great conflict of the age, incapable of <Illegible> or contesting the great struggle for freedom, and, consequently, like the Democratic party, utterly unworthy of support.
Resolved, That we rejoice in the discovery at last made by the South, that even their Northern Democratic allies, with all their Union-saving and other demonstrations, are wearied with Slavery, and disgusted with their degrading service of it; and we beg to assure Senator Iverson, of Georgia, (as well as others who have spoken like him,) that when he de-
<c02>
clared the Northern Democracy to be ‘fundamentally wrong on the great principle of slavery,’ that, with the Black Republican party, ‘they denounce it as a great moral wrong and social evil,’ that ‘not a single Democratic Senator from the North recognizes the right of the Southern people to their slave,’ he does but justice in those declarations to that growing abhorrence of slavery, among the sober and reflecting of all classes and parties, which will ere long hurl it to destruction, at whatever cost to Constitution or Union.

LETTER FROM REV. HIRAM WILSON.
Et. CATHARINES, C. W. Jan. 19, 1860.
RESPECTED FRIEND,
Wm. L. GARRISON,-It affords me sincere pleasure to be able to inform you that the interest, felt in this quarter in favor of wronged and crushed humanity, is increasing. Fugitives from the land of slavery and barbarism are coming to us occasionally. Their presence is well adapted to remind us of the horrible prison-house from which they have fled, and to excite fresh and lively sympathy in favor of the millions left behind, in the place of torments.
On Saturday, the 15th inst., a well-appearing young man came, who made the sub-marine passage, recently, from Norfolk, Va., to New York, and was amusingly noticed by the Tribune as hailing from New Hampshire, when questioned at the Police Court. He was here long enough to rejoice in the dawn of British freedom, to enjoy ample hospitality, and spend a Sabbath; since which he has gone to Toronto, in hope of finding some of his old companions in tribulation. Within the last twenty-four years. I have had the unspeakable satisfaction of taking by the hand some thousands of this class, and of ministering to their wants. With few exceptions, they constitute a vigorous and highly useful element of the Canadian population, and are getting on encouragingly. Contradictory statements have been made respecting them. The pro-slavery version is, that they are miserably poor and wretched, because lazy and vicious. Partial observers have represented them as a people virtuous, vigorous, industrious, prosperous all,-quite independent, and in need of no aid or sympathy! Truth says, they are a people, in respect to character and condition, good, bad and indifferent.
It is certain that they have been educated in the South, in a very bad school, in view of which it is matter of pleasing wonderment that there is so much of industry, integrity, intelligence and manliness as is found among them.  While large numbers of them become useful and worthy citizens, and are respected for their manly virtues, others are vicious, indolent and ungrateful. It would be strange if it were otherwise.   Though less provident  than  industrious, they are generally very capable of taking care of themselves, as is well proved by the large rewards offered by slave-hunters to induce their arrest, when escaping, and return again to slavery.  If capable of being profitable to slave masters in the South, it follows that they are capable of being profitable to themselves in the North.  There is much to be done, however, to elevate them in the scale of being to that position which they ought, as a people, to occupy; and yet their present condition, social, civil, intellectual and moral, is a paradise compared with slavery.
The barbarous and fiendish severity of the Slave Power, as manifested in the executions of the illustrious and noble-hearted John Brown and his brave comrades, has convulsed the nation to its extremities, and kindled up fires all over the land that will never go out till the revolting system of slavery shall be no more.
It is evident that the ‘irrepressible conflict’ is waxing more and more virulent, and it is amusingly wonderful that Helper is getting so much help from slaveholders in the way of giving publicity to his book.  They surely do not intend doing the cause of freedom such signal service, but there is a Divinity that sees the end from the beginning, and can turn even the wrath of man to good account, in bringing to pass his gracious designs in the deliverance of the enslaved, and the elevation of the lowly.  An omnipotent hand of matchless skill, that ‘doeth all things well,’ will, in due time, and with absolute certainty, adjust everything that relates to human affairs; but woe to those selfish, self-conceited and self-stultified mortals,  whether in or out of Congress, who undertake to thwart the benevolent anti-slavery designs of the Almighty!
How significant were those ominous words of Thos. Jefferson, uttered in view of the awful wrong and sin of slavery!-‘I tremble for my country, when I remember that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep forever.’ For one, I believe in the principle of retributive justice, which must, sooner or later, be developed, and cannot possibly be averted but by timely and sincere repentance, and the putting away of sin and crime. Sometimes the retribution quickly follows the commission of crime. For instance, one of the greatest crimes ever committed  in Boston against God or man was the giving up of Sims to the slave-hunter to be borne away upon the Acorn to a southern hell, (i. e., place of torment)-and what followed? Why, forty-eight hours had not elapsed till the wrath of Heaven seemed to lower upon the whole New England coast, which was then swept with such an awful storm as was seldom ever known. Just mark the rapid retribution that overtook the brutal assailant of Sumner! In his case, a coroner’s jury might have brought in a verdict of death by ‘visitation of God’!
The Harper’s Ferry affair was a legitimate sequence to the reign of barbarism and federative despotism in Kansas. It had the effect to strike terror to the heart of the South.
Although they style it John Brown’s raid,
It made Virginia sore afraid.
How conscious of guilt, and how void of peace, is the whole South! ‘There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.’ The fearful condition of things now prevalent in the Slave States-the frightful trepidation of the guilty oppressor, and the rapid succession of flagrant outrages upon the innocent, but recently chronicled-the painful suspense which stupifies with horror, and asks, what <illegible>-the dreadful forebodings of coming wrath-the conscious insecurity to person or property-the mad call of the South for dissolution-the folly and confusion which pervade the national councils,-these are all, apparently, the beginning of sorrows.
I hope that the approaching anniversary meetings in Boston, in behalf of the slave, may exceed in interest all that have ever been held.
Please accept my sincere thanks for the Liberator, and my best wishes for your success in promoting the cause of universal freedom.
Very respectfully,
Yours in the cause of philanthropy,
HIRAM WILSON.

THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC AND POLITICAL REGISTER FOR. 1860.  H. Greeley & Co., New York.
This is both a closely and neatly printed pamphlet of 80 pages, crowded with useful and valuable information on a great variety of subjects, both with special reference to governmental affairs, the political classification of Congress, rates of postage domestic and foreign, lands for the landless, the foreign slave trade, a historical sketch of Kansas, the late war in Italy, governments of Europe, election returns of the various States carefully compiled, popular vote for President in 1848, 1852 and 1856, list of States, Capitals, Governors, Times of Legislative Meetings, Holding of Elections, &c.  The labor of preparing such an Almanac must be very great; and afforded as it is at the low price of 13 cents single, $1 per dozen, or $7 per hundred, it ought to have a very large circulation in all parts of the country, always excepting the southern portion of it.
<c03>
WHAT IS ABOUTIONISM? WHO ARE ABOLITIONISTS?
MR. EDITOR: We had the pleasure, last evening, of participating in the discussion of the question,- by the ‘Mercantile Library Association’ of this city -’Has Garrisonian Abolitionism been of any practical service to the cause of freedom ?’
Will you allow us space for a brief criticism upon the form of the question, for the purpose of enlightening the minds of the gentlemen who tried to sustain the negative, upon a fundamental principle involved, and, at the same time, answering the question which we have placed at the head of this communication?
It is very palpable that the question supposes the existence of more than one kind of Abolitionism, and that yours, sir, is one (and a peculiar kind) among the varieties. Now, the criticism which we wish to submit is this, viz.: that there is-contrary to what is assumed by the form of the question-only one kind of abolitionism, and that is the kind which proposes to abolish slavery. From this as a premise, (and who can show that this is not correct, and the only one based on a sound philosophy?) we insist upon it that Garrisonian Abolitionism is the only Abolitionism existing in this country, inasmuch as it proposes the only principles, which, acted upon, will overthrow or abolish that gigantic system of wrong which is the bane of every good, whether in Church or State, wherever it is permitted to exist?
It is admitted by every one, that the Democrats do not intend nor wish to abolish slavery; hence, Democracy is not Abolitionism.
It is equally clear that the American party does not intend to touch slavery with so much as one of its fingers, where it exists under the sanction of law; hence, Americanism is not Abolitionism.
And it is no less palpable that the Republican party has never intended to interfere with slavery in the Slave States of this Union. It has always, and every where, emphatically disavowed any such design; hence, Republicanism is not Abolitionism.
Now, what other party is there which has any claim, either pretended or real, to be regarded as Abolition? There is none, dear sir, as every intelligent man and woman is aware, except that which is known as the Garrisonian; and that is the only one which has ever enunciated, and still continues to do so, principles which will purge this country of its greatest curse, and make it what it boasts it is, (but never has been) ‘the land of the free, and the home of the brave.’ Hence, Garrisonian Abolitionism is the only Abolitionism, proper, there is in the country. That it is, alone, which proposes to cure the sick, by eradicating or abolishing the disease from the system of which it is fast working the death, while every other mode of treating the patient proposes either to let him entirely alone,-keeping the windows darkened, and the doors all closed, to prevent the light of freedom shining upon his benighted mind, and its life-giving air fanning his feverish brow, (see ‘Americanism’ or ‘Republicanism,’) or to add to his anguish, and hasten his demise, by the repeated administration of the most fatal potations, in the guise of medicine, ‘ to save the Union.’ See ‘popular Democracy.’
Hence, we answer the questions which we have placed as the ‘caption’ of this communication, by asserting, without fear of successful contradiction, that there is no Abolitionism in this country, except what is embodied in the fundamental principles advocated by Mr. Garrison and his associates; and he only is an Abolitionist, who practically endorses those principles. Should any one feel like taking issue with us upon what we here assert, we shall cheerfully meet the attack whenever the enemy shall have fairly opened fire upon us. Yours, for the Truth,
BOSTON, Jan. 17th, 1860. JUSTITIA.

FUNERAL OF COPPOCK.
SALEM, (Ohio,) Dec. 31st, 1859.
Mr DEAR FRIEND,-I have just returned from the second sepulture of that noble martyr, EDWIN COPPOCK. His body was removed from New Garden to Salem, and interred in the Salem cemetery on the 30th instant-(Mr. JACOB HEATON, to whom it belongs, generously giving a beautiful lot). An immense crowd of people were present. He was buried in a grave eight feet deep. The strong metallic coffin in which his manly form was placed, was put within a thick oaken box, and the lid spiked down with strong spikes; and then, on top of that, were placed some eight heavy boulders, as mute guardians of his sleeping dust. As if predestined in the annals of eternity, they were borne by the mighty icebergs from the extreme north, and dropped down in that precise place, ages back, to be strong and silent sentinels in guarding the grave of the youthful martyr. Never, while memory holds a place in my soul, shall I forget that scene. It was a spectacle I would to God the entire North had witnessed. I feel assured they would have returned from it sadder and better men.
I am certain the oath of young Hannibal and the terrible devotion of Virginius would have been-‘Resolved,  ETERNAL HOSTILITY TO  SLAVERY—the monster devoted to the infernal gods.’ His youthful form, as it lay there stiffened in death-his hands white as Parian marble-his face blackened by the hangman’s halter-his mute tongue and still lips, were more eloquent than living ones could be, though touched by live coals from off the altar of Heaven. He is truly a martyr, immolated to appease the horrible dragon of slavery-in his youthful prime, without spot or blemish.
Shall these things longer continue? Shall wrong ever be on the throne, and right always on the scaffold? Shall the vilest villains rule, and the most worthy be slain? God forbid! There is such a thing as nations filling up the cup of their iniquity. More pertinently and powerfully would the prophetic Jesus exclaim, if he were here now, of this slave-cursed land, ‘The cup of your iniquity is full. Upon you shall come all the righteous blood shed-from the blood of the innocent victims slain in the cotton fields, to the blood of John Brown, Edwin Coppock, and his fellow-martyrs, whom ye hung at Charlestown. Ye serpents, ye vipers, how shall ye escape the damnation of hell?’
Thine for the downfall of tyrants, and the redemption of the slave, JOHN GORDON.
[The publication of the above letter has been accidentally delayed.]-Ed. Lib.

NEW YORK, Jan. 19.-(Herald Washington correspondence.)-Mr. Arny, of Kansas, was examined at length before the Harper’s Ferry Inquisition Committee. His testimony mainly related to occurrences which took place in Kansas during the border troubles. With regard to John Brown’s movements in 1858, Arny says that he (Brown) proposed to locate somewhere and run off slaves from the South, so as to make that kind of property insecure. Arny testified that he opposed this mode of interference with slavery. Brown said he disliked the ‘do nothing’ policy of the Abolitionists East, and said they never would effect anything by their milk and water principles.
As to the Republicans, Brown thought they were of no account, for they were opposed to carrying the war into Africa. They were opposed to meddling with slavery in the States where it existed. Brown said his doctrine was to free the slave by the sword. Arny wanted to know how he reconciled that with his Quaker peace principles which he held when he first knew him more than twenty years ago. Brown said that the aggressions of slavery, the murders and robberies perpetrated upon himself and members of his family, and violations of law by Atchison and others in Kansas from 1853 to that time, had convinced him that peace was an empty word, and he repeated his dislike to the Republican party and the Abolitionists, saying they were cravens; that they had refused to assist him. Arny testified that he declined to have anything further to do with his operations. Mr. Arny declined giving the names of persons in Massachusetts who are supposed to have had control of the rifles, as he could not state definitely who purchased them without referring to his books in Kansas, which the Committee would not give him time to procure.
As Arny was in Cincinnati just previous to the receipt of the letter written to Secretary Floyd, an-
<c04>
nouncing the intention to invade Virginia, it is supposed by some persons that he was the author of it.One thing is considered certain, that the persistent representations to President Pierce in 1856 by Arny, Hyatt, Gen. Pomeroy and others, of the danger of civil war growing out of the invasion of Kansas by Missourians, which invasion received the countenance of the Federal authorities of the Territory, induced the President to appoint Gov. Geary, who restored peace to a considerable extent in the West, and saved the country from a bloody contest 
NEW YORK, Jan. 22.-(From the New York Her-old’s correspondent.)-Mr. Realf has been before the Senate Brown Raid Investigating Committee to-day. He testified that Senator Wilson wrote a letter to Dr. Howe in 1857 or 1858, stating that he learned from Col. Forbes that Brown was about to make a raid into some of the Southern States for the purpose of liberating slaves, and that he would use money furnished him by parties in Massachusetts, for his Kansas work, to aid him in his new project, and that in his (Wilson’s) opinion it was madness in Brown to attempt such a thing, and that he (Howe) must withdraw all means furnished him or intended to be furnished him for services in Kansas, if they were to be misapplied in the manner indicated by Forbes.
Realf testified that Howe sent a copy of Wilson’s letter to Brown, informing the latter that the arms and money which had been furnished him for the protection of the settlers of Kansas would be withdrawn, in consequence of the revelations made by Forbes, through Wilson; that Brown became enraged, and abandoned his plan for awhile; but some time subsequently pursued some pro-slavery men into Missouri, and carried back with him several slaves.
Senator Wilson was notified to-day by Senator Mason, that Realf had alluded to him in his testimony, and that he could be present on Monday and read the testimony of Realf, concerning his (Wilson’s) correspondence with Howe, and make such explanation as he pleased. B. B. Newton, a member of the National Kansas Aid Committee, referred to in Arny’s testimony, arrived here to-day, and will be the next witness after Realf and Wilson. Realf will not implicate any member of the Republican party in New England, although there are persons who belong to other organizations who may be slightly compromised.
NEW YORK, Jan. 24.
No testimony has been given before the Committee of Investigation in any way implicating Republicans with John Brown’s raid. Mr. Realf states emphatically that the movement was known to but few persons, as Brown was a secretive man and kept his own counsels.  None who accompanied him to Harper’s Ferry but Kagi, was informed of the plan, which did not contemplate insurrection, but running off negroes. He says, also, that Brown and those in his confidence were radical abolitionists, who denounced the Republicans.  When Senator Wilson made his speech in Lawrence, they assailed him for failing to approach their standard of duty.  Mr. Wilson appeared before the committee, and stated he had written to Dr. Howe of Boston for the original letter which had been referred to by Realf.
That letter was written in May, 1858, and substantially tells Dr. Howe that information has reached him to the effect that Brown intended using arms furnished him for Kansas, by the Massachusetts Aid Society, in a manner not contemplated, and advises that they should be withdrawn from him.  Mr. Blair of Collinsville, Ct.,  who manufactured  the  pikes which figured at Harper’s Ferry, states that they were ordered during the Kansas troubles, as weapons of protection.  Mr. Callender, Cashier of the Bank at Hartford, proves that Brown had funds  there which were drawn to furnish supplies for Kansas. Neither had the remotest idea of the movement in Virginia till it was published.- Tribune’s Correspondent.
Realf concluded his testimony before the committee to-day. It was a detailed account of the Brown Provisional Government in Canada, which has already been published. He testified that he went to England in 1858, and knew nothing about Brown’s operations after that time. He was requested to examine certain letters found in Brown’s bag to see if he could identify them, but testified that he knew nothing about Brown’s corespondence, or the authorship of the letters. It is evident that some members of the committee have been disappointed in Realf’s testimony, he having testified that he knew nothing of any importance that was not before in evidence.
Mr. B. B. Newton, the member of the National Kansas Committee, and previously the leader of a colony at Mapleton, Bourbon Co., Kansas, confirmed the testimony of Mr. Arny concerning the refusal of the National Committee to furnish arms to Brown in 1857. When he commenced testifying in relation to the invasion of Kansas by armed bodies of men, he was stopped.-Herald’s Correspondent.
THE SENATE INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.-Dr. Howe and Others Summoned. A summons for Dr. S. G. Howe to appear before the Harper’s Ferry Investigation Committee, at Washington, was yesterday left at the residence of that gentleman. Dr. Howe had just left for Canada, to fulfil an engagement for an exhibition by the blind pupils of the Perkins Asylum.
James Jackson, an uncle of J. Merriam, to whom, as it appeared by certain documents, he had sent money, was also yesterday summoned before the same committee.
F. E. Sanborn, of Concord, Mass., has also been summoned to Washington to testify before the committee.

A DOUBLE CATASTROPHE IN MEMPHIS.-A Negro Market and a Newspaper Office in Ruins. On the 13th inst. the negro mart of Messrs. Forest, Jones & Co.,in Memphis, Tenn., fell, burying beneath its ruins ‘six valuable negro men,’ as the Bulletin expresses it. Soon after this casualty, the ruins caught fire. Fortunately it was soon extinguished, and the negroes were exhumed, when it was found that two of them, valued at $1800 each, were killed. The building was of brick, three stories in height, and cost, when first erected, $4000. Had not the fire been put out, bills of sale of negroes, amounting in the aggregate to $400,000, would have been destroyed.
Almost simultaneously with this disaster, the walls of a new building in process of erection for the Appeal fell, part of them crushing a one story brick structure, and seriously injuring the machinery and steam press recently purchased and stored there by the proprietor of that newspaper. Three persons were in the main building when it fell, but only one of them, a carpenter, was buried in the debris. He was rescued, eventually, with but slight injuries.
The total loss of the publishers of the Appeal will amount to $4000-the injury to the building, which was of brick, and three stories in height, being estimated at $3000, and that to the machinery at $1000.

SERIOUS RAILROAD ACCIDENT.-A Bride Killed and Twelve Persons Injured. A collision occurred on the Hudson River Railroad on the 18th inst., between the afternoon express train from Albany and the Sing Sing train, both going one way.  The rear of the express train was smashed. Ten or twelve passengers were more or less injured, and one, Mrs. Thomas W. Field, was killed. Mrs. Field, late Miss Anna Tuttle, late principal of one of the public schools in Brooklyn, was married only the day before, at her sister’s house, in Kingston, Ulster county, and had just started on her bridal tour to the South. Mr. James Horton, who was conversing with Mrs. Field at the moment of the accident, was thrown over the bank into the river, falling on the ice. He was but slightly injured. Bishop McClosky of Albany is among the seriously injured. Eight of the injured were left at Tarrytown, and the remainder brought to New York. Of the latter, Mrs. Thompson, wife of the publisher of the Bank Note List, had both her legs broken. Mrs. Shirwer, of Wellett street, had her head badly hurt. Mr. Dell Irwin, of Fulton street, was badly injured. Mrs. Irwin, wife of above, slightly hurt.  Mrs. Killey of Troy, was seriously injured in the breast.

A VIRGINIA DEMONSTRATION. Mr. Merringer was escorted to the Capitol by the military, the National and Virginian flags waving over the building. He spoke four hours to an immense crowd. He described the steady inroads of the North upon the rights of the South, and the rise and progress of abolitionism. He drew a dreary picture of their present relations with the North, and showed that the guarantees of the Constitution were powerless to protect the South. The South must make a demand for new guarantees if the Union is to be preserved, or else make concession after concession, till they lose all influence and right in the confederacy. He urged a Convention of the Southern States to consider their relations with the North. Mr. Merringer was listened to with intense interest throughout his long discourse.

Gerrit Smith, says the New York Tribune, though weak, is perfectly sane; talks freely on all the great events which have transpired; sleeps well, and has a good appetite; rides and walks every day, but avoids reading and writing, and does not receive company at present, because his strength is not equal to it. He is, however, round the village as usual, ministering to the wants of the sick and poor. His temporary alienation of mind, his physicians declare to have been caused solely by physical disease, in which acute dyspepsia was most apparent, and his complete restoration to full vigor of mind and body is considered a certainty.
<c05>
LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
This highly interesting work is now out of press, and in rapid circulation. The enterprising publishers Messrs. Thayer & Eldridge, have taken unwearied pains to get up a good book, both in its <illegible>assistants;-among them, Mr. Wm. C. Nell, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill; Mrs. Sarah A. Taylor. Intelligence Office, 140 Cambridge street; Mr. Jackson Neal, 12 Groton street; and George Coffins, 13 South Cedar street, who will call on the citizens in
general. JOHN W. LEWIS,
Agent for Publishers in Suffolk Country Boston, Jan, 20, 1860.

ABINGTON ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR AND LEVEE.
The Anti-Slavery friends of Abington and vicinity will hold a Fair and Levee at Union Hall, North Abington, on the afternoon and evening of Tuesday, January 31st, when they will offer for sale a variety of useful and fancy articles, together with refreshments, and sundry amusements to render the occasion pleasant and profitable to those who may favor them with their presence.
In the course of the evening there will be speaking by W. L. GARRISON and others, interspersed with vocal and instrumental music.
On Wednesday evening, February 1st, there will be a Social Dancing Party, commencing at 7 1-2 o’clock, for which good music has been engaged.
Tickets for admission to the Fair and Levee, 25 cts; for the Dance, 50 ets. All are invited to attend. North Abington, Jan. 17, 1860.

THE  IRREPRESSIBLE  CONFLICT
IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
A series of Anti-Slavery Conventions will be held in the State of New York, as follows:- Troy. Friday, Jan. 27.
Easton, Saturday and Sunday, “28, 29.
The Conventions will be addressed by Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Marius R. Robinson, Susan B. Anthony, and others.
The sessions will commence at 2 and 7 o’clock, of each day.
NEW YORK  STATE  ANNUAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION  will be held in Association Hall, Albany, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 31st and Feb. 1st and 2d.
Speakers-Wendell  Phillips,  Parker  Pillsbury, Marius R. Robinson, Leonard Gibbs, Aaron M. Powell, Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones, Susan B. Anthony, and others.
Convention to commence at half-past 7 o’clock, Tuesday P. M.
Let every county in the State be represented, This, surely, is the hour for the friends of Freedom to rally at the Capital, that our rulers may feel the united voice of the Empire State for a PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW

NEW YORK STATE WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION will be  held in  Association  Hall, Albany, Feb. 3d and 4th, commencing at half-past 2 o’clock, Friday P. M.
Addresses by Wendell Phillips, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Mrs. Lucy Cutler, J. Elizabeth Jones, Frances D. Gage, and others.

ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in Buxton’s New Hall at SOUTH WEARE, N. H., on Sun day next, Jan. 29th; also, on Monday evening, 30th; and in that neighborhood, during the week.
WM. WELLS BROWN intends spending a week in Western Massachusetts, and will lecture at Northampton, Florence, Cummington, and some of the surrounding towns.
MR. and MRS. Charles Spear will preach in Boylston  Hull next  Sunday evening, at 7 o’clock. Subject: The Parlor and the Dungeon.
The friends of Geo. W. Caleff (so say the dailies) are about giving him a benefit in the Meionaon, Tremont Temple. Gilmore’s Band (seven pieces) is to assist. Eminent speakers. To take place February 1st.
THE PETITIONS. Our friends, to whose care the petitions were committed, are requested to forward them to the Legislature as soon as the work of obtaining signatures can be completed. There must be no delay.
Give the petition to your representative in the Legislature; or, if preferred, send it to the care of SAMUEL MAY, JR., 21 Cornhill, 
Boston.
30,000 COPIES
SOLD IN ADVENCE OF PUBLICATION.
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the Family.
THE LIFE OF 
CAPT. JOHN. BROWN,
BY JAMES REDPATE.
With on Auto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegent volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with a 
MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIF
OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN.
A large per centage on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may by the following letters:-
Extract form a letter of Mary A. Brown, widow of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELEA, December, 1859,
MESSRS, TEAYER & EKDRUDGER:
DEAR FRIENDO-I am satisfied that Mr. Redpath is THE man to write the life of my beloved husband, as he was personally acquainted with him, and I think will do him justice. I think that the <illegible> is a very good one.
Yours respectfully, MARY A. BROWN.
Letter form salmon Brown, son of Capt. John Brown,
NORTH ELBA, December, 1959.
Dear Sirs-I was somewhat acquainted with James Redpath in Kansas. I am also familiar with his writings, and I consider him an able biographer, and THE MAN ABOVE ALL OTHERS to write the life of my beloved father. I believe him to be a man of undoubted veracity, and fully believe he will do justice to the work he has undertaken. Yours, respectfully,
SALMON BROWN.
Copies of this book will be furnished to any address, postage paid, oa on the remittance of $1, and 21 cents in sumps.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116, Washington street, Boston.
Jan. 20. tf

HELPER’S IMPENDING CRISIS.
A LIVE BOOK.
50,000 Copies have been Sold.
NOW IS THE TIME!
THIS is the work that is creating so much excitement IN CONGRESS. Large 12 mo. volume, 420 pages, cloth. Price, $1.00. Octavo edition, paper covers, 50 cents.
For sale by <illegible> and News Agents every where.
Single copies sent to any address, postpaid, on receipt of price. Address
A. B. BURDICK, Publisher;
D23 3t No. 145 Nassau st., New York.
<c06>
Scrofula, or King’s Evil,
is a constitutional disease, a corruption of the blood, by which this fluid becomes vitiated, weak, and poor. Being in the circulation, it pervades the whole body, and may burst out in disease on any part of it. No organ is free from its attacks, nor is there one which it may not destroy. The scrofulous taint is variously caused by mercurial disease, low living, disordered or unhealthy food, impure air, filth and filthy habits, the depressing <illegible>, and, above all, by the venereal infection. Whatever be its origin, it is hereditary in the constitution, descending “from parents to children unto the third and fourth generation;” indeed, it seems to be the rod of Him who says, “ I will visit the iniquities of the fathers upon their children.”
Its effects commence by deposition from the blood of corrupt or ulcerous matter, which, in the lungs, liver, and internal organs, is termed tubercles; in the glands, swellings; and on the surface, eruptions or sores. This foul corruption, which genders in the blood, depresses the energies of life, so that scrofulous constitutions not only suffer from scrofulous complaints, but they have far less power to withstand the attacks of other diseases; consequently, vast numbers perish by disorders which, although not scrofulous in their nature, are still rendered fatal by this taint in the system. Most of the consumption which decimates the human family has its origin directly in this scrofulous contamination; and many destructive diseases of the liver, kidneys, brain, and, indeed, of all the organs, arise from or are aggravated by the same cause.
One quarter of all our people are scrofulous; their persons are invaded by this lurking infection, and their health is undermined by it. To cleanse it from the system we must renovate the blood by an alterative medicine, and invigorate it by healthy food and exercise. Such a medicine we supply in
AYER’S
Compound Extract of Sarsaparilla,
the most effectual remedy which the medical skill of our times can devise for this every where prevailing and fatal malady. It is combined from the most active remedials that have been discovered for the expurgation of this foul disorder from the blood, and the rescue of the system from its destructive consequences. Hence it should be employed for the cure of not only scrofula, but also those other affections which arise from it, such as ERUPTIVE and SKIN DISEASES, ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, ROSN, or ERYSILPELAS, PIMPLES, PUSTULES, BLOTCHES, BLAINS and BOILS, TUMORS, TETTER and SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM,SYPHILITIC and MERCURIAL DISEASES, DROPSY,DYSPEPSIA, DEBILITY, and, indeed, ALL COMPLAINTS ARISING FROM VILIATED OR IMPURE BLOOD. The popular belief in “impurity of the blood” is founded in truth, for scrofula is a degeneration of the blood. The particular purpose and virtue of this Sarsaparilla is to purify and regenerate this vital fluid, without which sound health is impossible in constitutions.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR ALL THE PURPOSES OF A FAMILY PHYSIO, are so composed that disease within the range of their action can rarely withstand or evade them.  Their penetrating properties search, and cleanse, and invigorate every portion of the human organism, correcting its diseased action, and restoring its healthy vitalities. As a consequence of these properties, the invalid who is bowed down with pain or physical debility is astonished to find his health or energy restored by a remedy at once so simple and inviting.
Not only do they cure the every-day complaints of every body, but also many formidable and dangerous diseases. The agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis my American Almanac, containing certificates of their cures and directions for their use in the following complaints: Costiveness, Heartburn, <illegible>, arising from disordered stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Pain in and Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Jaundice, and other kindred complaints, arising from a low state of the body or obstruotion of its functions.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, FOR THE RAPID CURE OF Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
So wide is the field of its usefulness and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other medicine of its kind is too apparent to escape observation, and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL. MASS.
THEODORE METCALF & CO., Boston
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m
CARPETING.
‘All the Year Round.’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit. Sept. 16

CHARLES HAZELTINE,
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman’s, 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post-Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
Nov. 4. 6m
Resistance to Slaveholders!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, entitled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION;
OR,
<illegible> to Slaveholders the Right and Duty of the Southern Slave and Northern Freemen.
BY HUNRY C. WRIGHT.
“RESISTANCE TO <illegible> IS <illegible> TO GOD.”
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Bela Marsh’s 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the Liberator office, 21 Cornhill.
Boston, Jan. 11.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE OF CURTON.
God help the man who cannot think a thought!
Or whose thought-making patent has been bought
By gold or favor to do others' work;
Whose soul in Custom's rigorous cord is bound,
Whose downcast eyes demurely trace the sound
The orthodox majority have broke;
Who dares not look into Truth's shining face,
For fear she dazzle out unseemly tears,
And make him stumble from the public grace,
And stand convicted:’ Slave these many years!'
By whom Devotion's high enthusiasm,
That throws itself into the yawing chasm
To save another, is but looked upon
With bland abhorrence, or with polite scorn;—
Who, if he raise the fallen, acts as though
He stretched a pole to keep himself unsoiled;
And hesitates to aid a drowning friend,
Lest the calm waters of the lake be roiled.
Sure, a swift whirlwind from God's wrathful eyes
Will sometime shake his curs'd proprieties!
M. A. T.

For the Liberator.
WEBSTER'S STATUE.
American, thou wilt not have
An aristocracy of Birth,
Like Europe; but thou mayest have
An aristocracy of Worth.
Displace that statue which recals
That dark page on thy statue book;
Freedom and Justice it appals—
Love bows the head, and will not look,
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.

From the Halifax Sun.
THE DRAGON AND THE KNIGHT.
SUGGESTED BY THE LATE TRAGEDY IN VIRGINIA.
In regions by the sunset bounded,
A lovely Land of Promise lay,
But by an atmosphere surrounded
That shut the light of Heaven away.
For there a Dragon held dominion,
And filled the air with poisoning breath,
Darkened the land with shadowing pinion,
And doomed it to a living death.
For with demonist cunning dire,
It spared the bodies of its prey;
It left the human form entire,
And sucked instead the soul away.
More pitiless than cruel Circe,
Who, by a less malignant art,
Transforming men to beasts, in mercy
Still left them the diviner part—
This subtle monster, unsuspected,
Sacked by degrees the sacred shrine,
And with its beastliness infected
And filled the human form divine.
Though by a vile abuse of power,
Which, ah! the strong not always scorn,
The weak were given it to devour,
The unprotected and forlorn.
As evil deeds upon the doer
Recoil inevitably true,
The cruel cateress, self-secure,
Became th’ unconscious victims too.
Their souls fell into brute confusion,
They could not tell the false from true,
And the ‘peculiar institution’
At last unto an idol grew.
They made to it their yearly offerings,
They fattened on its baleful breath,
They wore its mark upon their foreheads,
And hunted heretics to death.
Yet by the nation's boundary Norward,
Beyond the pestilential air,
An uncontaminate few were forward
A loftier worship to declare.
The monster, all his might uprearing,
Hissed its foul venom forth in vain,
They still possessed their souls unfearing,
Of the sick land the only sane.
But one man, fired with indignation,
No words, but deeds alone could tell,
And of a progress grown impatient,
So almost imperceptible—
Armed by a pure life of probation
Against the all-pervading taint,
Long used to self-renunciation,
With heart of hero, soul of saint—
The monster fearlessly confronted,
Obedient to a heavily call,
Almost alone, and all undaunted,
Resolved that it or he should fall.
All pale and paralyzed with terror,
Back fell the multitude amazed,
And never having known a hero,
With stare unrecognizing gazed.
The manhood from his fallen brothers
Departed, nerved his every limb;
The soul that had gone out from others,
Seemed all concentrated in him.
And for a time he stood the centre
Of an inviolate charmed ring;
The palsied people feared to enter,
The cowering Dragon dared not spring.
O reader! turn from romance pages!
O nations! pause in your disputes!
Lo! this sublime deed of the ages!
One man against a million brutes!
Not for his own gain, but for others,
Not for the ‘so-called great’ and wise;
But for ‘the least of those,’ Christ's brothers,
Whose rights and wrongs few recognize.
And he, with mercy more than human,
To save the weak, yet spare the strong,
In darkened minds to reillumine
The heavenly spark extinct so long,
How was at last his advent greeted?
Did they his march with garlands deck?
And what his touch had consecrated
Wear for an amulet round the nock?
Alas! their failing, narrowed vision
Had long been given to things so small,
This hero and his earnest mission
They could not even discern at all;
But with a blind, embruted fury
They rushed—on what they did not know;
And mock machines of judge and jury
Condemned to death a fancied foe.
But he had hurled, the Dragon piercing,
One barbed, insinuating dart;
Its fierce convulsions since confessing
How close it rankles at its heart.
When, in the coming conflict, glorious
It totters to its final fall,
His name will nerve the arm victorious,
And echo as the rallying call.

THE MORAL PIONEER.
Happy he whose inward oar
Angel-comfortings can hear
O'er the rabble's laughter;
And, while Hatred's <Illegible> burn,
Glimpses through the smoke discern
Of the good hereafter.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
PIOUS FRAUD. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON: 
You, far more than most persons, are aware of the fearful extent to which, and of the deliberate  and systematic manner in which, the class of newspapers tailed ‘religious’ are accustomed to use direct falsehood, in defence of their own theological system, and in opposition to all conflicting systems, and especially in opposition to Anti-Slavery. You know that the Congregationalist,(edited by an Orthodox clergyman in this city, and one of the chief representatives here of that popular American religion which has usurped the venerable name of Christianity,) while  it speaks freely against those aspects of slavery in which the Church is not obviously implicated, yet incessantly strives, both by reservation of truth and by direct falsehood, to conceal the complicity of the Church with this sin, and manifestly hates an Anti-Slavery which exposes the sins of that Church, more intensely than it hates slavery itself. One of the proofs of this characteristic of the Congregationalist is its relation to the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, a body which is one of the most efficient supporters, both of the credit of this popular religion and of the credit of slavery. For the sake of the former trait, the Congregationalist not only forgives the latter, but tells deliberate and persistent lies in defence of the Board, and refuses to admit to its columns the contradiction of those lies, even from the official documents of the Board itself. 
As one illustration among many of the state of things above alleged, I request you to put on record the following article, which has been refused insertion in the Congregationalist. C. K. W.
THE AMERICAN BOARD AND ITS INDIAN MISSIONS. 
To the Editor of the Congregationalist: 
DEAR SIR— I find it currently reported in many papers that the American Board has relinquished its Indian Missions ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR CONNECTION WITH SLAVERY; thus combining two errors in one  brief statement. 
I especially regret to find that your own statement of this matter {Congregationalist, Oct. 14.) does not give it with entire correctness. The’ Abstract of the Annual Report' which you copy, (and for which the Secretaries, not you, are responsible,) treats the subject in the evasive style in which those functionaries are accustomed to ‘wrap up' troublesome matters; giving as the reasons for the discontinuance of the Choctaw mission (it is to be noted that the equally slaveholding Cherokee mission has not been discontinued or interfered with) only these two, namely: that an opinion had been expressed at Detroit in favor of the discontinuance, and that a correspondence had been held on the subject. Whose opinion that was, and what grounds were alleged for it—and what correspondence was held, showing error on which side—the’ Abstract' leaves to our conjecture; an omission especially noteworthy, as this very matter was one in which the Christian public were most deeply interested. 
Your editorial article (in the same paper) on’ The Meeting of the A. B. C. F. M.,' speaking of the action of the Board in approving the discontinuance of the Choctaw mission by the Prudential Committee, contains the following passage:—
‘That decision was judicious. On the one hand, members wished to retain the missions, and leave them still involved in slavery. On the other, members wished to retain them, and curry out an impossible course of discipline. The Board ended the otherwise endless quarrel by cutting off the missions on the simple statement of the missionaries that they would not follow the previous instructions, of the Board.'
I have italicised two expressions in the above, to designate the points in regard to which I wish to make respectful inquiry. 
1. Why, dear Sir, do you call it impossible to apply the discipline of a Christian church, or of the Choctaw churches, to the sins involved in slave-holding? 
2. Where do you find a statement of the Choctaw missionaries that they’ would not' follow the instructions of the Board respecting slavery? And upon what particular point were the ‘instructions’ given, which you say the missionaries stated that they would not follow? 
The Annual Report of the Board for 1859 now lies before me. The part of it entitled ‘Choctaw Mission,’ occupies pp. 137 to 146, inclusive. The part of this, entitled’ Discontinuance of the Mission,' occupies pp. 140 to 146, inclusive. Here, if any where, one would naturally look to find the Board's reasons for discontinuing the Mission; and here I do find them. But the allegation which you make, above, of a statement of the missionaries that they would not obey instructions, is not there. Where do you find it? 
On the other hand, I find two statements in direct conflict with your allegation. One on the part of the missionaries, saying that they have always obeyed instructions, in this very document, p. 142 of the Annual Report for 1859; and one on the part of the Prudential Committee, declaring that they have given no instructions to the missionaries in relation to slavery, p. 72 of the Annual Report for 1849 Here are these statements. 
The Prudential Committee said in 1849, respecting their correspondence with the Choctaw mission—(the italics are those of the Report)—
‘The letter sent by Mr. Treat to the mission had not that authoritative character which some have attributed to it. It expresses opinions, then and still entertained by the Committee; but not in a form which made those opinions decisions or instructions. The Committee have given no instructions to the missionaries in relation to slavery. They say expressly that they address their brethren” with suggestions and arguments". The distinction between suggestions  opinions and arguments, on the one hand, and decisions, rules and instructions on the other, though necessarily familiar to the conductors of missions, seems to be overlooked by some who have written on the subject.' p. 72. 
‘This distinction is vital to the proper understanding of Mr. Treat's letter to the Choctaw mission, and, for want of attention to it, very erroneous constructions have been put upon that letter.’—ib.
The missionaries now declare that their course from the beginning to the present time, has been uniform with that which formerly received the express full and unanimous approbation of the Board; as follows:— 
'In regard to our course above mentioned,”[ our position and course in regard to slavery,"] we would remark, that it is the same as has been uniformly practised by the mission from its commencement, more than forty years ago. It had the full approbation of the Secretaries and of the Prudential Committee for more than five-and-twenty years, and was finally approved with perfect unanimity by the Board at Brooklyn in 1845.
This passage (p. 142 of the Ann. Rep. for 1859 occure in a letter signed, In behalf of the Choctaw Mission, C. KINGSBURY, Chairman, C. C COPERLAND Clerk.' 
In conclusion, I respectfully request you to give, in correction of the errors in question, and for the information of your readers, the following passages from the reply of the Prudential Committee to the letter of the, Choctaw Mission last mentioned, containing the official vote of discontinuance of that Mission, and the real reasons for it, signed,’ In behalf of the Prudential Committee, S. B. TREAT, Secretary. 
First, the vote:
'It is the recorded judgment of the Board, that it should be relieved, as early as possible. from the difficulties which have grown out of its operations in the Indian Territory.   In this opinion, for the reasons already set forth, the Committee are obliged to concur. 
'It only remains that I apprise you of the formal action of the Committee, on the 26lh of July; which is as follows:
<c03>
“Resolved, 1. That, in view of the embarrassments connected with the missionary work among the Choctaws, which affect injuriously as well the labors of the breathren in that field as the relations sustained by the Board to its friends and patrons, it is incumbent on the Prudential Committee to discontinue the Choctaw mission; and the same is hereby discontinued.”—[Annual Report for 1859,p.145]
Next, the real reasons:
The above statement refers vaguely to’ difficulties' and’ embarrassments,' as having occasioned the discontinuance of the Choctaw mission, but, fortunately for us, it refers also to’ the reasons already set forth.' These reasons we find on the same page, a little before the vote just quoted, as follows:
'A wide-spread dissatisfaction has arisen among the churches, which, as the case now stands, is almost certain to increase. Aside from the injury that will accrue to the spiritual interests of our <Illegible> from a prolonged agitation, the income of the Board must inevitably suffer; while the claims of nearly all the missionary fields are so urgent, that any diminution of our receipts would prove a serious calamity. On the other hand, continued discussion can hardly fail, as it seems to the Committee, to embarrass your labors.
‘We do not forget what you say in regard to the peace and quiet which have prevailed among your people for the last two years. The fact is easily explained. The Board has been free from agitation during this period, and so you have felt no disturbing force. But if your relation to the Board continues on its present footing, neither you nor we can rely on this exemption hereafter.’—[lb., p. 145]
It thus appears that the Choctaw Mission was discontinued, not because the missionaries had refused to obey’ ‘instructions,’ nor because the Board objected to the slaveholding of the mission churches—but, by their own admission among the churches here by the Board's continued allowance of slaveholding in their mission churches, injuriously affected, and threatened still more injuriously to affect, the INCOME of the Board.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE,
233 Shawmut Avenue.
Boston, Dec. 6, 1859.
THE WAY IT IS DONE.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,— I once put into the hands of a candid and intelligent orthodox lady, Rev. Henry Grew’s tract, entitled ‘The Sabbath,’ and Archbishop Whately's elaborate note on the Sabbath, appended to his Essay ‘On the Abolition of the Law’ (of Moses). She confessed to me that it was unanswerably proved, in those documents, that neither the Old nor the New Testament makes the slightest requisition for the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath, and that, as far as Christianity is defined by the contents of those two books, it includes no Sabbatical observance whatever. Nevertheless, such was the influence of the church upon her mind, that she continued to follow its traditions and customs in opposition to the Bible, and to give her money and influence to the support of those ministers, and those Tract and Missionary Societies, which were maintaining the Sabbatical doctrine by assertions which she knew to be absolutely false.
If the church can thus carry her points in opposition to the Bible, even with the candid and intelligent among her members, how strong must be her influence with that great majority of them who possess neither of these qualities; and how difficult must it be to convey to them the light of Scripture and of truth when they are guarded from both in this three-fold manner, namely : by the assertion of things absolutely false, by their ministers, in the pulpit, and in the ‘religious’ newspapers which they edit—by their refusal to give the correction of those falsehoods(in either of those places) when it is brought to them for that purpose—and by their manufacture of calumnious statements to deter their readers and hearers from seeking other and truer sources of information!
I send you herewith (to be inserted in the Liberator if you think fit) an article which has just been refused insertion in the Congregationalist of this city, and which illustrates the first and second of the above specifications, while another article in the same number of that paper below commented on illustrates the third point, by designating yourself, by name, in the class of ‘infidel reformers.’
This transaction gives one small illustration of a conspiracy against light and truth, against reason and religion, which is perpetually active in the quarter referred to. The ‘regular correspondent’ defends the theological system of the paper for which he writes, by a statement absolutely false. The clerical editor lets the false statement (favoring his side) pass without comment. And when a third person exposes the false statement, or asks a question, the answer to which will necessarily expose it, the clerical editor quietly declines either to answer the question, or to admit to the paper a communication setting the matter right, or to correct the false statement in his own words, or even to print the question, which might set some of his readers to tracing out the true answer for themselves! He lets the falsehood have free course, and pass, in thousands of families, for a truth; and uses his editorial function not only to bar out all correction of it, but to exclude from his readers even the knowledge, or the suspicious, that it is a falsehood.
C.K.W.

For the Congregationalist.
‘TO THE LAW, AND TO THE TESTIMONY.’
To the Editor of the Congregationalist:
DEAR SIR,— In a letter (published Jan.14th) from your regular Berlin Correspondent, I find the following fragment of conversation. It suggests an inquiry which I should be glad to have answered:—
‘LADY,—Are you going to Potsdam to-morrow?
DR.—To-morrow is Sunday.
LADY.—The very day to see things to the best advantage.
DR.— But there is a little command in the Holy Book which interferes.'
The course of the conversation, both preceding and following this passage, shows that the lady was not very sensible. I am not concerned to defend her. But I am very desirous to know whether the Doctor was right. The Doctor speaks of ‘a little command in the Holy Book' which should really prevent a visit to Potsdam, and a survey of its objects of interest, on Sunday, the first day of the week. He seems to have had in mind some one passage of the Bible; and your correspondent, who quotes him, seems to recognize the existence of such a passage, and its sufficiency to prevent a Christian from visiting or travelling on Sunday, the first day of the week. I know that many people read the Bible carelessly enough to grant the correctness of such as assumption, and even to quote passages, in reply to such force, meaning or intent. A tolerably accurate knowledge of that book brings to my mind no command, little or great, which has such a force, meaning or intent, as the Doctor assumes. Will you have the kindness to tell your readers where, and what, that’ little command' is, which interferes with their visiting <Illegible>, or any other place, on Sunday, the first day of the week?
[C.K.WHIPPLE.] INQUIRER.

LETTER FROM JOHN G.WHITTIER.
AMESBURY, 15th 1st mo., 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
In thy notice of my article on’ Brown of Osawatomie,' published recently in the New York Independent, thou hast, unintentionally, I am sure, done me injustice. A part from what thee so well knew of my life-long professions and principles. I need only call thy attention to the fact, that in almost every instance, the articles from which thou hast quoted passages containing war-like allusions and figures, contain distinct and emphatic declarations of the entirely peaceful character of the Anti-Slavery enterprise, and equally emphatic denunciations of war and violence in its behalf. In thy first quotation, the quali-
<c04>
fying lines which, in the original, connect the two parts of the extract, are omitted: 
'To Freedom's perilled altar bear
The freeman's and the Christian's whole—
Tongue, pen, and veto, and prayer!’
In the article from which thy second quotation is made, the following significant stanza is the key-note of the whole:
‘Up now for freedom!-not in strife 
Like that your sterner fathers saw
The awful waste of human life,
The glory and the guilty of war. 
But break the chain, the yoke remove, 
And smite to earth Oppression's rod  
With those mild arms of Truth and Love, 
Made mighty through the living God,' 
In the poem entitled ‘Moral Warfare,’ (the very title shows its character,) the lines quoted by thee are contrasted with such as these: 
‘A moral warfare with the crime 
And folly of an evil time.’
‘And strong in Him whose cause is ours, 
In conflict with unholy powers. 
We grasp the weapons He has given 
The Light, and Truth, and Love of Heaven!’
The poem ‘Yorktown' is simply a dramatic representation of the capture of Yorktown, and the re-enslavement of the fugitive slaves in the abused name of Liberty. No eulogy of war was intended or given—none can be so understood. 
But, enough of this merely personal explanation. No one who knows me, or who has read my writings, can be doubtful for a moment as to my position-utter abhorrence of war, and of slavery as in itself a state of war, where the violence is all on one side.  The pledge which we gave to the world at Philadelphia, twenty-six years ago, when we signed the Declaration of Sentiments, fresh from thy pen, that we would reject ourselves, and entreat the oppressed to reject the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance from bondage; that we admitted the sovereignty of the States over the subject of slavery within their limits; and that we were under high moral obligations to use, for the promotion of our cause, moral and political action as prescribed in the Constitution of the United States,—we have since reiterated in a thousand forms, and on as many occasions. I have seen no reason to doubt the wisdom of that pledge. Slavery was just what it is now, neither better nor worse, when we made it. If it is right and proper now to use forcible means in behalf of the slave, it was right and proper then. If it be said that Old Testament Christians are not bound by our pledges, and that we are at liberty to applaud them in appeals to the sword, I can only say that I dare not encourage others who have not my scruples to do what I regard at morally wrong. On the contrary, I would use, even to the slaves, the language of thy own lines:—
'Not by the sword shall your deliverance be. 
Not by the shedding of your masters' blood, 
Not by rebellion, nor foul treachery 
Upspringing suddenly like swelling flood: 
Revenge and rapine ne'er did bring forth good. 
God's time is best, nor will it long delay:— 
Even now your barren, cause begins to bud. 
And glorious shall the fruit be. Watch and pray!— 
For, lo! the kindling dawn that ushers in the day.'
I am painfully sensible of many errors of feeling and judgment, but my conscience bears me witness that I have, at least, honestly striven to be faithful alike to Freedom and Peace. That this is thy own earnest desire I have as little doubt. 
Very truly thy friend,
J.G.WHITTIER
LETTER FROM AARON M. POWELL. 
ROCHESTER, (N. Y.,) Jan. 15, 1860. 
DEAR MR. MAY: 
We are much gratified with the result of the three Conventions, thus far held in this State at Lockport, Buffalo,  and Auburn,—especially the last. I have rarely, if ever, attended a better Convention than that at Auburn. MARTHA C. WRIGHT (sister of Lucretia Mott) presided; Mrs. STANTON, of Seneca Falls, Secretary. Rev. J. D. LONG, (Methodist,) author of ‘Pictures of Slavery,’ &c., Dr. HOSMER, and others, were with us in the Convention; and there were good audiences throughout. both daily papers gave respectful notices, and published the resolutions. I enclose with this the resolutions from the Auburn Daily Union. Not a hiss, nor a disrespectful word or look in or out of the Convention. 
At Buffalo we had the reverse of this, so far as the press was concerned. Only one paper published the resolutions, or gave a decent and anything like a truthful notice of the Convention, and that was a Democratic journal, the Republic. The Express and other Republican (!) sheets were as unscrupulous and lying as though under the immediate management of the ‘Father of lies.’ But the people are better than the press, and we had, in spite of the adverse influences, a very valuable Convention. 
I am now fully confirmed in the opinion that this movement, at this time, is most opportune for our cause in this State. 
I am very glad of Mr. Garrison's article on WHITTIER. I sympathise fully with Mr. G's view of nonresistance, and am much gratified with his clear and unanswerable criticism upon the ‘Quaker Poet,’ and also ADIN BALLOU. I believe the complete and perfect triumph of freedom will be only when the method of peace and Christian love shall universally prevail; but, long ere that dispensation shall be realized, do I expect chattel slavery to be overthrown by the mutual labors of freedom-loving men and women, who are a unit in their convictions as to the ungodly claim of’ property' in man, but have a diversity of opinions as to the doctrines and measures of peace. 
The sentiment of freedom is rapidly widening out beyond the limited circle of non-resistants, and I thank God that this is so,—small as is that circle, and limited as it inevitably will be for generations yet to come. Men and women enslaved, not non-resistants, and having a sacred right to freedom, as against their enslavers, have the right, and it is their duty to achieve their liberty by the strong right arm. To inveigh against John Brown, to rejoice in the defeat of liberty-loving insurgent slaves, while venerating the’ Heroes' of olden time, or accepting the responsibilities of citizenship under the government of the State or Nation, is, it seems to me, to discriminate in favor of the oppressor, and to lend one's influence to perpetuate, indefinitely, the bondage we deplore, and that by serious sacrifice of the vital principle of non-resistance. 
You will have learned from the Herald's Albany correspondence, that Personal Liberty petitions are being received in large numbers in the Legislature of New York. 
Yours truly, AARON M. POWELL.
THE U.S.CONSTITUTION AN ANTI-SLAVERY INSTRUMENT.
'The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican form of government:—ART. iv. SEC. iv. U. S. CONSTITUTION.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:—From this text, taken from the American political Bible for a foundation, I propose some remarks on the standing motto at the head of the Liberator. I request their insertion in its columns, and you are at liberty to subjoin such remarks at you may think best. 
I am not vain enough to think that I am about to suggest a new idea; the same has been said many times in numerous forms. 
Edward Bates, of Missouri, one of the Tribune's candidates for the next Presidency, in a recent political manifesto, said, or is made to say by his spokesman, the St. Louis Evening News, Nov. 8th, that' the Slave States have not Republican forms of government, but are despotisms.' Still, he has the unaccountable, though fashionable inconsistency to say, that, were he President, he would sign a bill for the admission of a Slave State, without hesitation.
‘The United States hall guarantee to every State in
<c05>
this, Union a Republican form of Government.' Have they done that? Far from it. This provision is a dead letter in every Slave State. It is evidenced by their slavery forms of government. Who or what is, to blame? Is it the Constitution of the United States? Not so. It is the States and people themselves who have baffled, thus far, the execution and enforcement of this salutary and peremptory provision of the work of the Fathers. Nay, we have been multiplying Slave States and slave governments, besides holding others in the Union with slave governments, instead of enforcing the guarantee. The Constitution is clear of this enormity. 
I need not insult any man's judgment or common  sense by saying that a Slave State cannot have a Republican form of government; that Slavery and Republicanism are eternal antagonisms; that they cannot exist in one community; nor can slave and free labor work together. All know this without being told. The strongest, blindest South-sider in Boston, in the Bay State, in the United States, dare not risk his reputation as a man of sense, and say that any Slave State In the Union has a Republican government. Not one! So the question need not be argued, only affirmed. If anybody dare take the affirmative, let him commence. 
Would common law practice which belongs to a Republican government—courts, juries, sheriffs, jails, or even scaffolds—hold a man in slavery? Not an hour! It is too slow a process. He must be an absolute chattel personal, subject to the will of a master, who has, and must have, the power of life and death over him. 
‘The power of the master must be absolute to reader the submission of the slave perfect. It would not do to allow the rights of the matter to be brought into discussion in the courts of justice. The slave, to remain a slave, must be sensible there is no appeal from his matter.’ (2 Illegible> N. Carolina Rep, 263) 
'There is no law for negro slavery but that of the overseer's whip.' (L. Lupington, Ib. p. 49.—Good-ell's Slave Code, pages 126, 127.) And I would here commend this work to all who are leaning toward the South side of this subject. It would be apt, if read attentively, to strengthen them up. 
No. There is no law for slavery but brute force. It has been a system of man-stealing, robbery and piracy from the time the notorious John Hawkins commenced it in Africa till now. 
If this provision of the Constitution had been applied to the system, it would have overthrown it long ago. There are other provisions that would help materially, such as the equal rights of citizens of a State among all the States, the freedom of speech and of the press, &c. 
But had this primal provision been enforced, the chief corner-stone of the whole structure, both the fugitive clause and the representative clause, which were mere temporary contingents, would have been obsolete; for there would be no slaves to run away, and none to represent. 
So, friend Garrison, I think you have got the saddle on the wrong horse. It is not the Constitution of the United States that is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell,’ but American slavery, which the ‘States of this Union, and the people thereof,’ have suffered so long to curse and pollute the land, rendering that instrument a dead letter in the Slave States, No—we, their degenerate children, are to blame, not the Fathers; we have been recreant to our trust. They did the best they could, under the circumstances; they did well enough; they furnished the instrument with which to overthrow slavery, and we have failed to use it: and why? Simply because the Slave Power has always controlled the government, and shaped legislation to protect, extend and perpetuate slavery. The majority of the people and their representatives are willing to have it so; indeed, are aiding and abetting—have laid their own sacrilegious hands to it—and are still doing so. The whole nation is corrupted by slavery. Neither the Fathers nor their work are worthy of such reproach. 
‘A Republican form of government is a government of the people.’ [Webster.] Will any man so stultify himself as to suppose that a portion of the people of a State can hold another portion as chattels, and call that a Republican government? And these chattels, forming the chief material power of the State, doing all its labor, when productive labor constitutes all private and public wealth and prosperity; while this laboring and producing class is robbed of the last cent of their earnings, and appropriated by and to the non-laboring and non-producing class, who are rendered by the process helpless and worthless drones, while the laboring and producing class have no participation in the government,. nor protection under it. 
But, says an objector, these are not people. Who says that? and by what authority but the law of the stronger, by whom they are crushed to the state of the brute? 
But it is presumed that their pretended owners would not deny that themselves are a portion of the people; but they are not Republicans, under Republican governments; they are petty despots, under rank despotisms, deprived themselves, by the framework of the institution, of the essential elements of Republicanism—of the freedom of speech and of the press—of the power of manumission, if they would. Nor will it be denied that the non-slaveholding whites are people; still, by the workings of slavery, they are reduced, in their condition, to nearly a level with the slave—deprived of work and wages, as labor is degraded because the work is done without wages-shut out from the tree of knowledge, the free participation of the fruits of which is indispensable to the enjoyment of a Republican government—not allowed to speak, even, in the presence of slave-owners, only to bow assent to what they may say. [See Helper's Impending Crisis.] 
But it is almost superfluous to quote authority, as almost every reading and thinking person is now familiar with the workings of the institution. The free people of color are no better off. 
Nor can it be successfully denied that the slave class is a portion of the people. The instrument under review, the Constitution itself, declares this, and that is good enough authority for me and my purpose, and ought to be for every American. They are mentioned twice, in the representative clause, and in the fugitive clause, and in both instances are termed persons, and persons collectively are people—are inhabitants of a state or country. [See Walker.]
What is the peaceable remedy? Why, enforce the Constitution. Require every State in the Union to adopt a Republican form of government. As the Free States have done, so let the Slave States do—replace their slave government by a Republican form of government. 
It is no good reason, though many think so, that because the Free States have done this in their own time, the Slave States should never begin the work. They should be required to do it; and now is a good time to commence, while our Southern co-partners are plotting for a Slave Code for the Territories. The Federal Courts are bound, by the Constitution, to entertain all cases of law and equity. Which of the Northern or free members of the firm will begin? Will Massachusetts, and test the case through the Courts. 
Nor is it a good reason why the South should not be coerced, should they not voluntarily change their form of government, because they have been let alone so long. Wrong is never made right by age.
C. ROBINSON. 
Holley, N.Y. Dec. 2, 1859
The population of Texas was- according to the census of 1850—154,034 whites, and 58,161 slaves. By the census of last year, it was 316,366 whites, and 136,792 slaves. The white populations thus increased more than double, and the slave population nearly one hundred and fifty per cent in eight years.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S.A. Allen's Restorer. ‘No. I, according to the directions and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.’ Rev. M. THACHER.
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov.22, 1855.
President  J. I. EATON, LL. D., Union University, <Illegible>’ Tennessee.
‘MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer', &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D.W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D.W.CLARK,
Editor ‘Ladies’ Repository,’ Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor’ Christian Advocate,’ Buffalo, N.Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,’ &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N.Y. City.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.’
Rev. A.WEBSTER, Editor ‘Christian Era,’ Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am nose neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H.V. DEGEN, Ed. ‘Guide to Holiness,’ Boston
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.’
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro’, Mass.
‘I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ‘crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.’
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N.Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP,AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B.THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
‘Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.’
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. J.WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street) Brooklyn.
‘I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.’
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. ‘Presbyterian Witness,’ Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till as known it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J.A.H.CORNELL,  Corres, Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N.Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N.Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church, Esopus, Ulster county, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N.Y.
‘I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.’
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
‘It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.’
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
‘We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.’
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the ‘American Baptist,’—‘I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.’
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell <Illegible> on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year;$1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 871/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No.355 Broome Street, New York.’ The Genuine has ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen,’ signed in Red Ink to outside <Illegible>, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles—none other is genuine. Signing the name by others in forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offense.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER. October 14. <Illegible>
