THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. No. 6. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1775.
The Liberator.
<c01>
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
ANNUAL MEETING.
Phonographically reported by.JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.
THURSDAY, Jan. 26. 
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
I have a series of resolutions, containing the substance of what I want to say this morning, and though the Business Committee has not yet had a meeting to act upon them, I will read them, and they can be afterwards acted upon. The previous reading of them will, I think, enable the hearer to understand more distinctly the ground and object of all I have to say at these meetings of the Society. My own opinion is, that the 8th day of November closed the record up to that day. We need have no criticism on matters which took place before. In our judgments of men we differ, but our business is with facts of national action. As abolitionists, we shall probably no more agree in our judgment of individuals than the sects agree in their creeds, no matter how long or how patiently we may argue such questions. But if our sessions have any purpose or utility, it must consist in the expression of an anti-slavery opinion in regard to the facts now taking place in American civil life; and my judgment is, that the great duty of abolitionists at this time is to record their opinion as to such facts; otherwise, there seems to be no meaning, no purpose in any meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. It is with that view that I have prepared three or four resolutions:—
[These resolutions were published last week.]
These resolutions seem to me to cover all we need to say of the present position of public affairs. The future just opening upon us has one question for abolitionists, and that is, the terms of reconstruction. The great danger in that future consists in three facts. The first is, that the prejudice against the negro is not more than half eradicated from the North. Secondly, that the Republican party, which has the Government in its control, is weakened in its principle by the very numbers which have rallied to its flag. Thirdly, that the Executive pleads earnestly an immediate reconstruction of States, within the next twelve months.
The first element to which I adverted—the continuing prejudice against the negro—and the second—that the Republican party is not itself able to command a decisive vote on questions of absolute justice to the negro—make the third—the wish of the Executive to reconstruct under such circumstances—vitally important in an anti slavery point of view. I have no doubt any more than the most sanguine among us, that if the same pressure could be continued upon the Administration which we have enjoyed hitherto, and which has made 1864 out of 1861, we should compel liberty out of the present aspect of affairs. But that pressure was composed of two elements. On the Southern side it was war; on the Northern side it was discontent with the Executive. The Government has travelled from 1861 to 1864 not of its own will. I do not regard it as having accomplished one single step self-moved. In every case, it has been bayonetted up to it by the pressure of outside public opinion—by a distinct intimation from almost every quarter, and especially from abolitionists, that its course and attitude were not satisfactory. On the Southern side, there was another element—war. As long as that continued, it ripened the South and the North. It educated both parties. Our defeats educated the Northern mind—our victories educated the Southern mind; and while this process went forward, there was no great fear that the Government would be able to baulk the purposes which underlie the great civil convulsion. But the press and the general public have measurably discontinued, within the last six months, this critical pressure and rebuke of the attitude of the Administration. The public mind has largely settled down into the conviction that the question is safe, somewhere—either in the purposes of the Executive or in the march of events, and consequently the press and the general public have largely discontinued their criticisms. On the other hand, when we look at the South, there is a battle going on inside the Confederacy far more momentous in its influence on our future than any battle Grant will fight, or than Sherman has fought; that is the contest between the statesmen of Georgia and Richmond as to which shall lead the Confederacy. Vice President Stephens, Gov. Brown, and the class of men whom they represent, are undoubtedly wearied with the efforts already made to establish independence, and satisfied that they have done enough. I do not look upon them as having exhausted their means, or as intimating that they have exhausted their means. On the contrary, even Sherman,—certainly a competent judge,—writing from Georgia itself on the 25th day of October, two months after the victory at Atlanta, commences his letter with an observation of this kind, which he repeats in another letter of the same date—“ This war is only begun.” Doubtless he meant, ”I see around me so many evidences of the means of continuing the war, that, in a military point of view, it is only begun.” If any party at the South discontinue it, they discontinue it not of necessity, but of purpose. Now, the Georgia plot, so to call it, to unhorse Davis and throw him from the saddle, is a momentous one as regards the anti-slavery issue. If they conquer, the idea of peace dominates in the Confederacy. When that idea gets the helm of the Confederacy, peace will be made; no doubt of it, because the whole tone of the Republican party is peace, on some condition or other, shortly, from political and military necessities, as they judge. We were told in Washington, by a dozen members of the House, that if North Carolina should knock at the door to-day, having chosen Senators and Representatives, and should say, ”I wish to enter as I stand; I will discuss slavery when I have entered, but I submit to the flag—admit me!”-we were assured, I say, by half a dozen members, ”We could not take a vote; she would be admitted by acclamation.” Such is the temper of Congress itself. But Congress, even in that mood of mind, recognizes and confesses that the wish for the 
<c02>
speediest reconstruction prevails in the White House with tenfold the intensity that it does in its own body. If, therefore, from any respectable portion of the South, especially from a portion that had got control of the Confederacy, an offer of peace should come, there would undoubtedly be negotiations resulting in it; and every man who is acquainted with the state of public feeling even here knows, that if Georgia should ask to-morrow to be admitted to this Union on the basis of freeing her slaves within ten years, or twenty years, every other man in the community would say, Amen! that two-thirds of the Republican party would honestly say, Amen! For you must remember that the Republican party is not to-day composed of, certainly not ruled by, its original elements, educated by thirty, or twenty years of political struggle. It consists, on the left hand, of a converted Democratic, on the right hand, of a converted Bell-Everett section—men who ”see men as trees walking,” have no definite conception of the necessities of the question, no real experimental knowledge of the subject; and their very honesty of purpose entitling them to influence, doubles their danger to us. They would deservedly influence politics, and control it, through the press and the Executive. They honestly believe to-day in the madness of immediate emancipation, and any scheme which repudiated it would have their earnest sanction. Added to this is another element. The President has distinctly avowed to the House Committee on Reconstruction—“I will sign almost any bill on that subject which admits Louisiana; I will sign no bill which does not admit her.” In other words, he practically endorses the statement of General Banks at the Tremont Temple, that the reconstruction of Louisiana is the model which the Executive sets to the other States for the reconstruction of civil government; because, in the first place, this very avowal says to Congress, ”It is safe thus to reconstruct Louisiana—reconstruct it”; and, secondly, every man knows, that any one State which passes the doors of Congress will necessarily be the model for every other; because, Louisiana once admitted as she stands, if Georgia or South Carolina comes up tomorrow, they will justly claim, ”Give us the same privileges and terms that you have accorded to Louisiana;” and every man acquainted with politics in general, or the state of parties in particular to-day, knows that you could not rally a vote against such a claim. Admit one State, and you fix the precedent; every other State will deem itself injured if it is precluded from any privilege enjoyed by the first admitted State. When, therefore, Congress submits—as even Mr. Sumner is understood to say they must submit, however reluctantly, in this single objectionable instance, to the wishes of the President—when Congress submits to this reconstruction of Louisiana, it establishes the principle underlying Louisiana as the guide for future reconstruction. What is that principle? I hardly need to examine it. Fortunately for us, Judge Field has exhibited in one act its nature. A brutal, domineering, infamous overseer spirit, such as we knew it before’60, its symbol the bowie-knife, comes back to the House as the chosen representative, at the first blush, of the white men of Louisiana—one of them represented to me, by competent authority, a month ago, as really a rebel at the bottom of his heart as any one that treads the continent. That is the first harvest reaped in the hot enthusiasm of the hour, with every eye in the nation planted on the reconstruction. What element of the white race will follow? What class of men will hereafter come up to share authority with us, if this be their best sample?
But this is not, perhaps, the exact question for an Abolitionist; it is the question for a citizen. We are sharing sovereignty with that white race; but to day I come here merely to criticise the attitude of that white race toward the negro. You will remember that today we have the power to protect the negro in New Orleans as perfectly as we have in the streets of Boston. The slightest fringe of his rights trampled upon, and the hand of Government can reach the offender as effectually in New Orleans as in State Street. That is the attitude to day. How necessary is it that government should enjoy that right? Look at Maryland and see. Maryland accepted emancipation of her own will; she voted it of her own will. It was not forced upon her by conquest; by the act of the Federal Government; it was accepted by her own citizens. If there ever was a State, therefore, where the interest of the black race could be trusted to the fairness and good purpose of the white race, it was Maryland. What was the fact? Twenty-four hours after that Proclamation of Gov. Bradford’s, making the Constitution the law of the land, the whites of that State took up a forgotten law, and proceeded with speedy and vengeful activity to put it into execution. Left alone a week, as I was assured in Baltimore, they would have had all the young colored persons so thoroughly apprenticed that liberty to them would have been a sham for the next fifteen or twenty years. The courts were powerless to oppose it. Gen. Wallace, of the United States army, on the spot, issued his order superseding every court in Maryland, as far as the negro was concerned. That order, withdrawn within a week at the request of the loyal men, because it had done its work, defeated the plot; but had he not been there, there would have been no power competent to arrest that conspiracy, which our friend here [GEO. THOMPSON] knows was nothing but a literal repetition of what was done in the West Indies. Jamaica parallels our experience in every particular. I remember when I was in England in 1841, the delegates from Jamaica told me exactly the same story that the loyal men of Baltimore did last month.
That is the white race, in the best circumstances, at the commencement. As I say, while we are in actual possession of a State, holding it by the army, we can protect the negro; reconstruct a State, and where are we? Why, we have put up a fence between the Federal Government and the State Government. The bill before the House proposes, for instance, that South Carolina, with 300,000 white men, and not a loyalist among them, and 400,000 black men, and not a disloyalist among them, shall be reconstructed—the fence erected between us and them, the government of the State given to these 300,000 rebels, and the black men put under their feet helplessly. If we were in England, I should have no doubt and no fear, because the English realm has but one law, practically, and the statute of London runs to the end of the
<c03>
realm. By the Queen’s Bench or the Privy Council, a magistrate at the end of the earth can be unseated according to the will of Parliament. That is England, but that is not America. Put up the fence between you and Louisiana or South Carolina, and the Federal law runs to it, not over it, except in two or three specified cases. Suppose (what is by no means certain) that we get an amendment of the Constitution prohibiting slavery. Many Abolitionists have said, that with the prohibition of chattel slavery, and an Abolitionist for Chief Justice, the negro is safe. How unwise! On the other side the State fence is Robert Small and Gov. Aiken. On this side is Salmon P. Chase and the Federal Constitution. Why, if Gov. Aiken has got any brains, he can grind Robert Small to powder in nine hundred and ninety-nine different ways without trespassing on the anti-slavery amendment; and until he does, Salmon P. Chase cannot interfere. When I come to speak to you, in a moment, of Louisiana, you will see that Banks has actually set them the example and given them the very method by which to grind the negro without restoring chattelism. Do not let us forget the history of the anti slavery struggle, and what it has taught us of the limited authority and influence of the Federal Government. Every man of you, fifty years old, can remember the experience of the Federal Government in 1831, when the strongest power in the nation grappled with the State of Georgia, and was defeated. When Georgia seized a converted Cherokee, in 1831, and said, ”I will hang him,” Chief Justice Marshall said, ”You cannot; it is unconstitutional.” Orthodoxy rallied from Massachusetts Bay to the Mississippi and said, ”You shall not; it is infamous.” Where is there a stronger power than the Orthodox sects of the North for a army and the Supreme Court for a general? Congress denied the legality of the proceeding. The press of the country, ignorant and exultant, said, ”It can’t be done.” “See if it can’t,” said Georgia, and hung him up. Then she took Samuel Worcester and put him in jail. Behind him stood the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign and Domestic Missions, in front of him the Chief Justice, but Georgia turned the key on him, and there he lay, until, in her sovereign will, she chose to open it. South Carolina took our black seamen out of ships and put them in jail. Winthrop even was lifted to manhood enough to prove it was illegal; the Secretary of State proved it was unconstitutional; Massachusetts protested; Congress protested; we sent Samuel Hoar down to say, ”Wayward sister, why do you so?” Go home or I will put you in” was the answer. We had the Federal authority, the North, and the Constitution on our side, but they availed nothing. Texas took six of our black men and sold them, ten years ago, and we do not know today where they are. Unconstitutional, alt of it; public opinion on our side largely at the North; but Congress said, ”We know no means by which to check a State.” Chief Justice Marshall exhausted all his ingenuity in the Cherokee case. The interlocking of State and Federal authority is so complex, that when a State, short of war, chooses thus to throw herself athwart the Government, it is exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to interfere with her.
We are to remember the history of the cause. I allow, of course, what every man knows, that all this time we had a pro-slavery public; we are to have an anti-slavery one, I hope, in the future; but I want to bring to your minds, first, the almost impossibility, even with the Constitution on our side, of attacking a State, and then to remind you that the white men of the reconstructed States can keep inside the Constitution, be free from any legal criticism, and yet put the negro where no abolitionist would be willing to see him.
Now, to my mind, an American abolitionist, when he asks freedom for the negro, means effectual freedom, real freedom, something that can maintain and vindicate itself. I do not believe in an English freedom, that trusts the welfare of the dependent class to the good will and moral sense of the upper class. This is aristocracy. The ballot in England is in the hands of some eight hundred thousand or a million of men,. and the welfare of the rest trusted to their sense of justice. That is their philosophy of government, it is not ours. Our philosophy of government, since the 4th day of July, 1776, is that no class is safe, no freedom is real, no emancipation is effectual which does not place in the hands of the man himself the power to protect his own rights. That is the genius of American institutions. Now, when I see the nature and relative position of the State and Federal Governments, and know that the white man of the North, if he wished to, could not protect the negro of Louisiana, once put that State fence between them,—could not if he would, and I still believe would not if he could, in the absolute sense of justice and freedom,—then, as an abolitionist, under such a government, I fall back on the democratic principle, and claim of the anti-slavery party that it shall be content with no emancipation which does not put into the hands of the freed-man himself the power to protect his newly-acquired liberty. (Applause.) No emancipation is effectual, no freedom is real, which does not take that shape. I argue it simply as a question of security, not of justice or of magnanimity. For a nation to ask a man to fight for them and then leave him without full citizenship, is an infamy which would make a man forswear all part in such a nation. (Loud applause.) I have seen a letter from one of our ablest Captains, who writes—“I do not believe in the equality of the races. I do not accept the policy of allowing the negroes to fight. I do not believe in universal suffrage nor in universal freedom. I believe that this is a white man’s battle, and that white men should fight it But,” he says, ”if the white man chooses to give himself to trade, and let the negro fight the battle, the hand that defends the country has a right to govern it.” (Applause.) That is honest logic. That is the honest logic of an opponent of anti-slavery. That is the logic of a man whose growing popularity, with such a heart, constitutes one of the great dangers of our future. If we are to believe in the sincere purpose of the Administration to arm the negro and give him his musket as the basis of his right to every privilege of citizenship, how shall we explain that when Sherman asked for Col. Bowman, months ago, to organize the negroes who sought our camp, from that day to this, though often repeatedly urged, no one has been sent him? From that day to this, the Government has never responded to his call. From that
<c04>
day to this, the Executive at Washington has not answered, though urged even by Maryland to do it. They left him to sully the noblest achievement of the war by the most infamous act that ever disgraced a nation. When he swept across the continent, doing what no soldier had done before, had he gathered the only help he got, the black man, into his ranks, his star would have taken its place in the highest galaxy of patriots and captains. But instead of that, with deliberate infamy, he paused at the end of a causeway a mile long, let the white men pass, and held back the negroes who had brought him horses, food, information, and then tore up the bridge, and stood by while rebel cavalry shot that mass of friends down as they would a herd of buffaloes. (Cries of” Shame.”) The proudest action of the war is covered over with a blot sufficient to make any American unwilling to name it as done by his countrymen. Show me an instance, under any plea of military strategy or necessity, where a white man seeking our lines, in the whole four years, has been hurled back on the bayonets of the enemy, and our men stood by and saw him shot down, and I will grant some excuse, some plausible apology for this infamous butchery by the first military genius of the white race. I know, of course, in whose immediate presence and by whose immediate order the act was done, but as you do not seek out the name of the soldier who actually tore up the bridge, but visit your rebuke on this Davis who ordered the act, so I go farther and hold the head of the whole expedition, Sherman, responsible. Any marked act in that march which he has not censured, he must be held to have endorsed and approved. This infamy is too monstrous for our indignation to be satisfied, grovelling down among petty underlings, like this Jefferson C. Davis. I hold Sherman responsible since he has endorsed it by silence. If the Administration remains silent, then I hold President Lincoln and Mr. Secretary Stanton the real murderers. They can hasten fast enough to relieve a General who spares the lives of his soldiers; we wait to see what they will say to one who murders them.
Some of these resolutions refer to Louisiana, to which I was coming in my argument. The President offers it to us as an initial reconstruction. We may see what sort of freedom, therefore, we are to hope for if the black man be left to the tender mercies either of a Major General or of the white men of the rebel States. But in examining this matter, I shall rely almost exclusively on the speech of Gen. Banks at Tremont Temple. I take that not because I think Gen. Banks’s statement to be any evidence whatever of the truth of what he says, but because I find enough admitted and claimed for merit by him in that speech to make me repudiate Louisiana. Thoroughly untrustworthy in regard to the whole question of Louisiana, only a brain thrice sodden would accept Banks’s evidence on any point relating to the negro. A Major General, born in Massachusetts, graduated by three years of such a war as this, who could say to the black regiment of Louisiana, which had left half its number under the mouths of the enemy’s cannon, when it asked to put ”Port Hudson” on its flag, ”No,” while he permitted a white regiment, doing picket duty two miles off, so to inscribe their banner, is no fit witness where the negro is concerned. (Applause.) I refuse him all right to testify; and I visit the same criticism even on the War Department, when I recollect that it is but a month since they rectified that infamous injustice. Week after week, month after month went by, and the men whose comrades had died under the very mouths of the enemy’s cannon had a flag unmarked, while so many a white man flaunted his lie in their faces, and the Government at Washington, indifferent and heartless, permitted this injustice. But, as I say, I accept the acknowledgments of Gen. Banks in this speech as sufficient for my purpose. What you call the freedom of Louisiana is ”Banks’s freedom,” and it is no freedom for me. The English, in 1834, called their apprenticeship system, ”Stanley freedom;” they replaced it soon by something better. The Abolitionists, asking for bread—Emancipation—are presented with a stone—“Banks’s freedom.” I, for one, do not accept it.
In that speech, Gen. Banks himself describes his system as one planned ”to prepare the negro for as perfect an independence as that enjoyed by any other class.” The anti-slavery agitation of thirty years stamps its contempt on any preparation of the negro for justice. (Loud applause.) If there is anything patent on the whole history of our thirty years’ struggle, it is that the negro no more needs to be prepared for liberty than the white man. (Applause.) Yet Gen. Banks begins his speech by saying he has initiated a system to prepare the negro for liberty! He then goes on to say, that in the State of Louisiana, the negro is not allowed to make a contract. Now, I try him in two ways. He says neither the negro nor any laboring man in Louisiana can be allowed to make a contract. If he is sincere, why hasn’t he put the white laborer as well as the black under his Provost Marshal? (Applause.) If his principle is a correct one, his law should be, ”No laboring man in Louisiana shall fix the rate of his own wages, fix the term of his own contract, leave the spot where he has agreed to labor,”—but there is no such rule. Gen. Banks, having laid down the principle that no laboring man is able to make a contract in Lousiana, proceeds to do—what? To settle that no black man shall make a contract! Showing the sham of the original principle. What he means, practically, is, ”no laboring negro shall make a contract.”
We never shall have a nation until it is governed by one idea. The idea of Massachusetts liberty is MANHOOD; a human being, not an artificial being; a thing created by God, not by law. The Southern idea of liberty has been a white race lifted into position by law, and a black race thrust down into its position by law. The idea of Massachusetts liberty is, a man competent to sell his own toll, to select his own work, and when he differs with his neighbor, a jury to appeal to. My will at the beginning of the road, and a jury at the end. That is liberty, according to the Northern interpretation. Gen. Banks’s liberty for the negro is, no right to fix his wages; no right to choose his toll, practically no right; having once chosen his place, no right to quit it; any difference between employed and employer tried by a Provost Marshal, not a jury. History always repeats itself-
<c05>
In Jamaica, England tried her apprenticeship system, and said to the negro, ”If you differ with your master, go to the Stipendiary Magistrate.” Who was he? He was a commissioned Englishman, who travelled from plantation to plantation, arrived late in the afternoon, took a bath, a dinner, a bottle of madeira, went to bed, got up late, breakfasted with his host, and then coolly sat down on the piazza to hear what the negroes had to say. The negro never got any justice, of course. In the same way, Gen. Banks has set up what he calls a Provost Marshal. He has the American ingenuity as to phrases. It is not a magistrate, it is not a justice. You know we have never had slavery. Years ago, we had ”the domestic institution”; then we had the ”peculiar institution”; then ”the patriarchal institution”; then a Methodist Bishop was requested not to get rid of his slaves, but to get rid of his ”impediment.” (Laughter.) Mr. Choate, when in his last years he canvassed Massachusetts, said, not slavery, ”but antagonistic system of labor.” So Gen. Banks organizes labor, sets up a Provost Marshal,—a very innocent military officer,—who visits the white man, dines, sups, sleeps, gets up in the morning, and listens, at arms’ length, to the complaints of the freedman. What chance of justice has he? His wages having been originally fixed by that Provost Marshal and the employer, without any voice of his, any difference is referred to the Provost Marshal; and practically, necessarily, though not included in the ostensible system, behind the Provost Marshal stands the lash. I have here the letter of a New England Brigadier General stating that to his knowledge, the freedmen are whipped. I have in my own ears the confession of a New York Colonel that he had sent his own soldiers to see it done; and we have the statement, in Col. McKay’s report, that whipping was undoubtedly practised on many plantations under this beautiful ”organization of labor.” Thus Gen. Banks hands over the black man to the white race in Louisiana, and then Mr. Lincoln insists that that State shall be admitted as a representative State, with two Senators to balance New York, and five Representatives to balance Connecticut. By all the record of thirty years, I protest. By every principle held sacred in the anti-slavery discussions of a quarter of a century, I protest against accepting that bastard as a true son of the rebellion. (Applause.) Louisiana is ”keeping the promise to the ear and breaking it to the hope.” It is sacrificing the very essence of the negro’s liberty to the desire for a prompt reconstruction. I do not believe it will be possible to reconstruct those States for a quarter of a century, if the attempt is made to reconstruct them of white men. This generation never will have their minds changed to that extent that they can be trusted. I said to one of the Provost Marshals of North Carolina,—the most Union State of all, it is said,—“How much Unionism is there in North Carolina?” “Well,” said he, ”when a man is half whipped and thoroughly starved, he is a very good Unionist.” No doubt he is. The white race is no fit timber to build States with, and looking at the question as mere citizens, the ballot to the negro is indispensable, because we have no other timber to build States with, and unless we build with him, we must postpone reconstruction for so many years that the very patronage of territorial governments would swamp Republican institutions. Keep them territories, let the Democracy come in eight years or four, with the money power of this banking system in one hand and territorial governments in the other, and Republican Government will be almost a farce. God gives us but one bridge over the pit, like the line of the Mahomedan legend, fine as a spider’s web. Step one single iota to the right or left of absolute justice, and the nation is in the pit. (Applause.) All that the negro needs, and all that belongs to him, is the indispensable necessity of the white race, as well as justice to him. I contend, therefore, that what the anti slavery cause needs to-day is the most indignant protest against. ”Banks’s liberty” in Louisiana, a most indignant repudiation of it as emancipation, the most earnest protest against the acceptance of such a State by Congress on every ground, unless we would lose half the fruits of the rebellion. A Government color blind; no distinction of race in the camp or the senate; the negro entitled to vote and to be voted for; to fight with rifle in hand or to order the battle with stars on his shoulders; stars and office for the heart, brain and hand that can win and wield them. This is at once justice, fair play, magnanimity and necessity; the only pathway to safety and empire.
I believe, friends, that there is more hope of safety to us in Richmond to-day than there is in Washington, because, as I said, speaking of the struggle within the Confederacy, if Jefferson Davis keeps the saddle, he continues the war, and will clean this continent from St. Louis to St. Augustine, free every black, yes, give him a patent of nobility, before he will yield to the Yankee; and that process will educate us. Do not let us be wanting to the grand signs with which Providence beckons us forward. Whoever supposed he would live to see such an hour as we see to-day? Jefferson Davis marched out of Washington, his right hand full of fetters for the black, on which he had written ”forever.” To day, he sits in Richmond with pale lips debating with his fellows whether the black man will defend and save him. [Mr. MAY—“God be thanked!”] He might be painted to-day kneeling at the very feet of the negro, begging help or aghast at the gulf which yawns beneath, and no hand but that of the black to save him. Such a change no other page of history shows us. God has given it to us, the glorious result of battle in the South, and as keen a struggle in Northern thought and purpose here. I see it as my friend [Mr. May] does, but what I demand of him is, that in the future as in the past, he shall give us that same keen criticism which has made 1865 out of 1861, which has bent Jefferson Davis to the feet of the negro, and which will (yet force him to muster that very race against us, and Northern prejudice, half-exorcised by the thunders of Port Hudson and Fort Wagner,—the negro on our side,—will shudder down to its own place—the bottomless pit—when the negro carries victorious banner against us. Then we shall confess ”the negro will fight,” not in the complacent tone of pitying condescension, but with wholesome terror and common sense. (Applause.) Yes, it is war at the South, and as keen a war betwixt the Abolitionists of the North and the political policy which governs the Republican party, on which I base
<c06>
my hope—not in praises, not in wasting time telling how much has been done. The world known that. It is the last step which makes success or failure. It is the last half hour which actually consummates victory. As Napoleon said, it is the last fifteen minutes and the last regiment which decide which army beats. I know, as my friends do, how much has been done. Just so the soldier in front of Richmond today knows exactly how much has been done. He can count Chattanooga and Gettysburg, Antietam, and Petersburg, and the Wilderness, and cry exultingly to Grant, ”How much!” But suppose he should fold his arms, and say, ”Lieutenant General, we have done so much that I am going home, and shall leave you to consummate the victory, solitary and alone, over Richmond,” should we think that ”policy”? It seems to me some of our anti-slavery friends stand today counting up success after success, created solely by the anti-slavery bayonet thrust into the White House, and having finished the list, they say, ”Let us fold our arms, cry great is the Republican party, and trust Abraham Lincoln to consummate a perfect victory.” Will Grant, even with all his past successes, make Richmond capitulate without an army? Just as soon as the Republican party can subjugate the slavocracy without our searching criticism and constant demand, ”Onward! Justice, absolute justice, forthwith and forever!” To-day the balance hangs. Who are to gain or lose? Don’t think that I exaggerate the problem. We have not measured ”the job.” More than half of it remains in front to-day. The fault of the American mind from the commencement has been in not probing and measuring the vastness of the work. Some two years ago, McClellan summoned Sherman to his side and said, ”How many men will it take to hold Tennessee?” “Two hundred thousand,” said Sherman. ”Madness,” said the ”young Napoleon.” (Laughter.)”Insanity. You are a fanatic; it won’t take thirty thousand”; and he banished the fanatic west of the Mississippi, to take charge of an Indian post. It has taken three hundred thousand men to hold Tennessee;—the banished fanatic has swept across the continent and snuffs the breezes of the Atlantic, with conquered States for a retinue, while the young Napoleon has gone to study engineering in a foreign land! (Loud applause.) To-day there is an opinion similar to McClellan’s—that the future is so near, so ready for our grasp, that we can afford to relax our efforts, disband, muster out, and trust the Generals and Senators to negotiate the victory. That is McClellan, thinking that Tennessee could be held with a handful. In time, I think you will realize that the fanaticism which is to grasp both ends of the continent is that which measures to-day, with anxiety, the severity of the trial and the vastness of the work before us. (Loud applause.)

SPEECH OF GEO. THOMPSON, ESQ.
Mr. President and Friends:—Were it not that my name has been announced as one of those who are to address you at this morning’s meeting, I should resist any importunity to present myself to your attention. As it is, I shall crave at your hands permission to defer to some future session the remarks I may desire to offer on the present aspect of your national affairs, in relation to the question of slavery.
It affords me unspeakable satisfaction to be able to express my all but unqualified approbation of the resolutions which have been submitted by my friend Mr. Phillips, and also of the observations he has made upon them. (Applause.) If my approbation is slightly qualified, it is simply with respect to those parts of my friend’s address in which he criticises the administration of a certain high functionary, charged with the conduct of affairs in a remote State, under circumstances of peculiar difficulty. I do not say those criticisms are too harsh, or are undeserved, but that I do not feel myself competent, at present, to pronounce judgment in the matter. When, however, my friend calls upon you, as he does in his first resolution to acknowledge with devout thankfulness the marvelous triumphs of the anti-slavery principle throughout the United States, I ask the privilege of blending my tribute of gratitude with yours, to the great Disposer of events for His interference in your behalf, and for His having so ordered those events as to cause them to work in the direction of your national redemption from the crime, the guilt, and curse of slavery. With equal cordiality can I echo everything, which he has said intended to incite you to vigilance, union, firmness and uncompromising fidelity in this the last stage and crisis of the great conflict in which you have been engaged with the hosts of oppression for more than thirty years. Think nothing done while any thing remains to be accomplished; but carry on the holy war until it is brought to a final and everlasting end. (Applause.)
With Mr. Phillips, I would urge you to take warning by the conduct of England in the matter of negro apprenticeship. Consent to no measure that shall leave the negro half a slave and half a freeman (Applause.) Let your battle-cry to the last be ”Immediate, unconditional, absolute Emancipation.” Expose and denounce the delusion that the negro, or any other human being, here or anywhere, requires to be, or can be, prepared for personal freedom. The use of freedom can only be learnt by its possession, and is the right and heritage of every man. (Applause.) I unite with my friend when he says that, if to recapitulate the triumphs which have been achieved thus far in the cause of freedom were the sole end of our speeches, we should but waste words. Nevertheless, during the last twelve months, I have been constantly addressing public audiences in this country, and in all my speeches have deemed it my duty to count up and exhibit the solid gains which have accrued to the cause of liberty during the present war, and the contemporaneous revolution in the sentiments of the people; but at the same time, I have insisted upon the duty growing out of past successes to press forward until not only shall slavery to be abolished, but the vile distinctions founded upon complexional difference utterly obliterated. (Applause.)
I therefore agree with Mr. Phillips that your Constitution needs two amendments; one prohibiting slavery everywhere throughout the Union, and another forbidding the States to enact laws which shall make any distinction among their citizens on account of race or color. Let your Constitution be so amended that it shall, for all time to come, be the rule, the principle, the fundamental law of this Republic, the 
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
there shall be no distinction in regard to civil or political rights or privileges founded upon complexion. (Applause.)(Applause ) I would that the same power which is about to decree the abolition and prohibition of slavery should also decree the utter and eternal annihilation of all differences at present existing in consequence of dissimilarity of complexion. (Applause.) I, equally with Mr. Phillips, desire to see the negro enfranchised. I desire to see him protected by the ballot. In a word, placed upon a footing of absolute civil and political equality with the white man. (Applause.) With Mr. Phillips, I believe that if this country is to be saved, it must be saved through the negro, and for the negro; that without his assistance it cannot be reestablished in its integrity, nor preserved when it is reestablished. (Loud(Load applause.) There is, then, you perceive, Mr. President, little if any difference between myself and the honored friend by whom I have been preceded; none, if the counts upon which he has arraigned the administration of Gen. Banks can be sustained, and into that question it is not my intention to enter. I leave Gen. Banks to Mr. Phillips, to the Government he serves, and to the people of Massachusetts? Let me. Massachusetts: Let me, however, express my gratification that so much that is really good, and about which there is and can be no diversity of opinion, has been done in Louisiana; that slavery has been abolished and freedom proclaimed; that schools have been established; that a new order of things has been inaugurated; and that we have seen and heard on this platform, to-day, singing the songs of freedom, and waving the banner of the Union, the first fruits of that glorious harvest which shall ere long be reaped in the form of universal liberty. (Applause.) If, standing as we do to-day upon the threshold of entire emancipation, we are about to see the prohibition of slavery in this country made a part of the Constitution, it is certainly the duty of those who call themselves Abolitionists to see that they are not cheated out of any portion of that freedom which they design to confer upon the slave. Thirty-two years ago, at my first meeting with Mr. Garrison in England, be paid me the compliment of saying that he perfectly sympathized with me in the efforts I was then making to induce the people of Great Britain to repudiate the system of apprenticeship which was unhappily made a part of the abolition act of 1833. In consenting to that measure, the friends of the negro, as I have always thought, not only compromised their principles, but, as the result proved, fell into a fatal error. Mr. Phillips was guilty of no exaggeration in the picture which he drew of the courts of justice, so-called, in Jamaica and other West India colonies, during the existence of that bastard system, that mockery of freedom, called “ apprenticeship “—a “apprenticeship” -a system in some respects worse than slavery itself—a system so hateful, oppressive and cruel, that the British nation had to be aroused to a second effort for the purpose of effecting its overthrow. I trust no similar blunder will be committed here. Let full justice be done, and at once; let the negro be made free; let him be clothed with the rights that will enable him to protect himself; and thus will be avoided those difficulties, complications and miseries which would not fail to follow from the adoption of any system short of entire and absolute emancipation. (Applause.) Members of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, accept my heartfelt congratulations upon the mighty changes which have taken place since the period when it was my honor to be first associated with you!—changes so vast in their magnitude, so endless in their issues, so beneficent in their consequences, that words fail to express their importance. This day you behold the fruit of your labors; to day to-day America endorses, to their full extent, the principles you have for more than thirty years promulgated. At last, the nation is awakened to a sense of the danger, the criminality and the shame of slavery. What remains, but that you gather up your strength, that you gird up the loins of your mind, and that you press forward until the nation ratifies by its acts, and establishes by its Constitution, the sacred principles for which you have been contending?
I cannot sit down without offering to my friends present, whose complexion identifies them with that portion of the American people who have been so long the victims of prejudice, proscription and slavery, my congratulations upon the great change which has already been effected in their condition; and upon the altered status which I believe they will soon occupy amongst the citizens of this country. In your behalf, say my friends, I hail the brightening prospect. I offer my congratulations to my eloquent friend, and former associate, Frederick Douglass, whom I see present amongst us this morning. (Loud applause.) I congratulate him that Maryland, the State where he was born; the State under whose laws he was held as a slave; the State from which he fled to the free soil of Massachusetts, is to-day A FREE STATE, and that the elite of the city of Baltimore now invite the fugitive slave to come amongst them, and lift up that wondrous voice which, for twenty years past, has been uttering in thunder-tones its denunciations of the foul wrong of slavery. (Applause.) I congratulate my colored friends, that to-day two millions of their once enslaved race are free; that the United States army contains two hundred thousand brave men, who, instead of lifting the hoe in the field for tyrant-masters, are wielding the sword in the cause of their own liberty, and the defence of a common nationality. Mr. President, it cannot be that the face who have furnished so many devoted warriors, who have displayed such matchless bravery in the face of your country’s enemies, can ever again be reduced to that condition of degradation in which, to the shame of this country, they have hitherto been held. (Applause.)
The signs of the times are indeed encouraging; they all point to the fruition and consummation of our labors and our hopes. Let us not, however, lay down our arms, or slacken our exertions. Let us hold last whereunto we have attained, and press onward to the goal. The people must not leave this matter to be decided wholly by the events of the war, or by the deliberations of politicians, or according to the theory of statesmen, or by the decisions of Cabinets Should they do so, then, alas! for the negro. Not that I fear in regard to his personal liberty; for that, I believe, it assured. The fetters that have bound his limbs will, I believe, be broken; but we demand for him a higher liberty, a liberty from all those disabilities and degrading distinctions to which his race have heretofore been subjected. (Applause.) We wish his personal liberty to be the means to an end. The negro was a chattel, he is to be a man, and was require that the man should be made a citizen, and that, in possession of the full rights and franchises of an American, he should be able to defend his man-hood and assert his equality. (Applause.)
Mr. President and friends, I now yield the floor. I thank you for permitting me to be heard to this extent. I leave the further discussion of these important resolutions in abler hands, and shall remain amongst you a quiet but interested listener to the remarks of better men.

SPEECH OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Mr. President,—I have not heard the resolutions read, but I have listened to the speeches of Mr. Phillips and Mr. Thompson, and I do not feel, at this time, like entering into the discussion of the questions which I suppose, from these speeches, to be involved in the resolutions. I came here, as I come always to the meetings in New England, as a listener, and not as a speaker; and one of the reasons why I have not been more frequently to the meetings of this Society has been because of the disposition on the part of some of my friends to call me out upon the platform, even when they knew that there was some difference of opinion and of feeling between those who rightfully belong to this platform and myself; and for fear of being misconstrued, as desiring to interrupt or disturb the proceedings of these meetings, I have usually kept away, and have thus been deprived of that educating influence, which I am always free to confess is of the highest order, descending from this platform. I have felt, since I have lived out West, that is going there, I parted from a great deal that was valuable; and I feel, every time I <illegible>come to these meet-
<c02>
ings, that I have lost a great deal by making my home west of Boston, west of Massachusetts; for, if anywhere in the country there is to be found the highest sense of justice, or the truest demands for my race, I look for it in the East, I look for it here. The ablest discussions of the whole question of our rights occur here, and to be deprived of the privilege of listening to those discussions is a great deprivation.
I do not know, from what has been said, that there is any difference of opinion as to the duty of abolitionists at the present moment. I went with every word uttered by Mr. Phillips, and with almost every word uttered by Mr. Thompson. How can we get up any difference at this point, or at any point, where we are so united, so agreed? I went especially, however, with that word of Mr. Phillips to which, if to any, exception was taken by Mr. Thompson, and that is, the criticism of Gen. Banks and Gen. Banks’s policy. I hold that that policy is our chief danger at the present moment; that it practically enslaves the negro, and makes the Proclamation of 1863 a mockery and delusion. What is freedom? It is the right to choose one’s own employment. Certainly, it means that, if it means anything; and when any individual or combination of individuals undertakes to decide for any man when he shall work, where he shall work, at what he shall work, and for what he shall work, he or they practically reduce him to slavery. (Applause.) He is a slave. That I understand Gen. Banks to do—to determine for the to-called so-called freed-man when, and where, and at what, and for how much he shall work, when be shall be punished, and by whom punished. It is absolute slavery. It defeats the beneficent intentions of the government, if it has beneficent intentions, in regard to the freedom of our people.
I have had but one idea for the last three years to present to the American people, and the phraseology in which I clothe it is the old abolition phraseology. I am for the “immediate, unconditional and universal “universal” enfranchisement of the black man, in every State in the Union. (Loud applause.) Without this, his liberty is a mockery; without this, you might as well almost retain the old name of slavery for his condition; for, in fact, if he is not the slave of the individual master, he is the slave of society, and holds his liberty as a privilege, not as a right. He is at the mercy of the mob, and has no means of protecting himself.
It may be objected, however, that this pressing of the negroes right to suffrage it is premature. Let us have slavery abolished, it may be salt, said, let us have labor organized, and then, in the natural course of events, the right of suffrage will be extended to the negro. I do not agree with this. The constitution of the human mind is such, that if it once disregards the conviction forced upon it by a revelation of truth, it requires the exercise of a higher power to produce the same conviction afterwards. The American people are now in tears. The Shenandoah has run blood -the best blood of the North. All around Richmond the blood of New England and of the North has been shed—of your sons, your brothers, and your fathers. We all feel, in the existence of this rebellion, that judgments terrible, wide-spread, far-reaching, over whelming, are abroad in the land; and we feel, in view of these judgments, just now, a disposition to learn righteousness. This is the hour. Our streets are in mourning, tears are falling at every <illegible>, and under the chastisement of this rebellion, we have almost come up to the point of conceding this great, this all-important right of suffrage. I fear that if we fail to do it now, if Abolitionists fail to press it now, we may not see, for centuries to come, the same disposition that exists at this moment. (Applause.) Hence, I say, now is the time to press this right.
It may be asked, “Why do you want it? Some men have got along very well without it. Women have not this right.” Shall we justify one wrong by another? That is a sufficient answer. Shall we at this moment justify the deprivation of the negro of the right to vote because some one else is deprived of that privilege? I hold that women as well as men have the right to vote, (applause.)(applause,) and my heart and my voice go with the movement to extend suffrage to woman. But that question rests upon another basis than that on which our right rests. We may be asked, I any, say, why we want it I will tell you why we want it. We want it because it is our right, first of all. (Applause.) No class of men can, without insulting their own nature, be content with any deprivation of their rights. We want it, again, as a means for educating our race. Men are so constituted that they derive their conviction of their own possibilities largely from the estimate formed of them by others. If nothing is expected of a people, that people will find it difficult to contradict that expectation. By depriving us of suffrage, you affirm our incapacity to form an intelligent judgment respecting public men and public measures; you declare before the world that we are unfit to exercise the elective franchise, and by this means lead us to undervalue ourselves, to put a low estimate upon ourselves, and to feel that we have no possibilities like other men. Again, I want the elective franchise, for one, as a colored man, because ours is a peculiar government, based upon a peculiar idea, and that idea it is universal suffrage. It I were in a monarchical government, or an autocratic or aristocratic Government, where the few bore rule and the many were subject, there would be no special stigma resting upon me because I did not exercise the elective franchise. It would do me no great violence. Mingling with the mass, I should partake of the strength of the mass; I should be supported by the mass, and I should have the same incentives to endeavor with the mass of my fellow-men; it would be no particular burden, no particular deprivation. But here, where universal suffrage is the rule, where that it is the fundamental idea of the government, to rule us out is to make us an exception, to brand us with the stigma of inferiority, and to invite to our heads the missiles of those about us. Therefore I want the franchise for the black man.
There are, however, other reasons, not derived from any consideration merely of our rights, but arising out of the condition of the South and of the country- considerations which have already been referred to by Mr. Phillips-considerations which must arrest the attention of statesmen. I believe that when the tall heads of this rebellion shall have been swept down, as they will be swept down, when the Davises and Tombses and Stephenses, and others who are leading in this rebellion shall have been blotted out, there will be this rank undergrowth of treason, to which reference has been made, growing up there, and interfering with and thwarting the quiet operation of the Federal Government in those States. You will see those traitors handing down from sire to son the same malignant spirit which they have manifested and which they are now exhibiting, with malicious hearts, broad blades and bloody hands in the field, against our sons and brothers. That spirit will still remain; and whoever sees the Federal Government extended over those Southern States will see that government in a strange land, and not only in a strange land, but in an enemy’s land. A postmaster of the United States in the South will find himself surrounded by a hostile spirit; a collector in a Southern port will find himself surrounded by a hostile spirit; a United States marshal or United States judge will be surrounded there by a hostile element That enmity will not die out in a year, will not die out in an age. The Federal Government will be looked upon in those States precisely as the governments of Austria and France are looked upon in Italy of the present moment They will endeavor to circumvent, they will endeavor to destroy the peaceful operation of this government. Now, where will you find the strength to counterbalance this spirit, if you do not find it in the negroes of the South? They are your friends, and have always been your friends. They were your friends even when the Government did net regard them as such. They comprehended the genius of this war before you did. It is a significant fact, it is a marvellous fact, it seems almost to imply a direct interposition of Providence, that
<c03>
this war, which began in the interest of slavery on both sides, bids fair to end in the interests of liberty on both sides. (Applause.) It was begun, I say, in the interest of slavery, on both sides. The South was fighting to take slavery out of the Union, and the North fighting to keep it in the Union; the South fighting to get it beyond the limits of the United States Constitution, and the North fighting to retain it within those limits; the South fighting for new guarantees, and the North fighting for the old guarantees;—both despising the negro, both insulting the negro. Yet the negro, apparently endowed with wisdom from on high, saw more clearly the end from the beginning than we did. When Seward said the status of no man in the country would be changed by the war, the negro did not believe him. (Applause.) When our generals sent their underlings in shoulder-straps to hunt the flying negro back from our lines into the jaws of slavery from which he had escaped, the negroes thought that a mistake had been made, and that the intentions of the Government had not been rightly understood by our officers in shoulder straps, and they continued to come into our lines, threading their way through bogs and fens, over briars and thorns, fording streams, swimming rivers, bringing us tidings as to the safe path to march, and pointing out the dangers that threatened us. They are our only friends in the South, and we should be true to them in this their trial hour, and see to it that they have the elective franchise.
I know that we are inferior to you In some things-virtually inferior. We walk about among you like dwarfs among giants. Our heads are scarcely seen above the great sea of humanity. The Germans are superior to us; the Irish are superior to us; the Yankees are superior to us (laughter); they can do what we cannot, that is, what we have not hitherto been allowed to do. But, while I make this admission, I utterly deny that we are originally, or naturally, or practically, or in any way, or in any important sense, inferior to anybody on this globe. (Loud applause.) This charge of inferiority is an old dodge. It has been made available for oppression on many occasions. It is only about six centuries since the blue-eyed and fair-haired Anglo-Saxons were’ considered inferior by the haughty Normans, who once trampled upon them. If you read the history of the Norman Conquest, you will find that this proud Anglo-Saxon was once looked upon as of coarser clay than his Norman master, and might be found in the highways and byways of old England laboring with a brass collar on his neck, and the name of his master marked upon it. You were down then! (Laughter and applause.) You are up now. I am glad you are up, and I want yon to be glad to help us up also. (Applause.)
The story of our inferiority is an old dodge, as I have said; for wherever men oppress their fellows, wherever they enslave them, they will endeavor to find the needed apology for such enslavement and oppression in the character of the people oppressed and enslaved. When we wanted, a few years ago, a slice of Mexico, it was hinted that the Mexicans were an inferior race, that the old Castilian blood had become so weak that it would scarcely run down hill, and that Mexico needed the long, strong and beneficent arm of the Anglo-Saxon care extended over it. We said that it was necessary to its salvation, and a part of the “manifest destiny “manifest destiny” of this Republic, to extend our arm over that dilapidated government. So, too, when Russia wanted to take possession of a part of the Ottoman Empire, the Turks were “an inferior race.” So, too, when England wants to set the heel of her power more firmly in the quivering heart of old Ireland, the Celts are “an inferior race.” So, too, the negro, when he is to be robbed of any right which is justly his, is “an inferior man.” It is said that we are ignorant; I admit it. But if we know enough to be hung, we know enough to vote. If the negro knows enough to pay taxes to support the Government, he knows enough to vote-taxation and representation should go together. If he knows enough to shoulder a musket and fight for the flag, fight for the Government, he knows enough to vote. If he knows as much when he is sober as an Irishman knows when drunk, he knows enough to vote, on good American principles. (Laughter and applause.)
But I was saying that you needed a counterpoise in the persons of the slaves to the enmity that would exist at the South after the rebellion is put down. I hold that the American people are bound, not only in self-defence, to extend this right to the freedmen of the South, but they are bound by their love of country and by all their regard for the future safety of those Southern States to do this-to do it as a. measure essential to the preservation of peace there. But I will not dwell upon this. I put it to t he American sense of honor. The honor of a nation is an important thing. It is said in the Scriptures, “What doth it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?” It may be said also, what doth it profit a nation if it gain the whole world, but lose its honor? I hold that the American Government has taken upon itself a solemn obligation of honor to see that this war, let it be long or let it be short, let it cost much, or let it cost little,-that this war shall not cease until every freedman at the South has the right to vote. (Applause.) It has bound itself to do it. What have you asked the black men of the South, the black men of the whole country to do? Why, you have asked them to incur the deadly enmity of their masters, in order to befriend you and to befriend this government. You have asked us to call down, not only upon ourselves, but upon our children’s children, the deadly hate of the entire Southern people. You have called upon us to turn our backs upon our masters, to abandon their cause and espouse yours; to turn against the South and in favor of the North; to shoot down the Confederacy and uphold the flag—the American flag. You have called upon us to expose ourselves to all the subtle machinations of their malignity for all time. And now, what do you propose to do when you come to make peace? To reward your enemies, and trample in the dust your friends? Do you intend to sacrifice the very men who have come to the rescue of your banner in the South, and incurred the lasting displeasure of their masters thereby? Do you intend to sacrifice them, and reward your enemies? Do you mean to give your enemies the right to vote, and take it away from your friends? Is that wise policy? Is that honorable? Could American honor withstand such a blow? I do not believe you will do it think you will see to it that we have the right to vote. There is something too mean in looking upon the negro when your are in trouble at a citizen, and when you are free from trouble as an alien. When this nation was in trouble, in its early struggles, it looked upon the negro as a citizen. In 1776, he was a citizen. At the time of the formation of the Constitution, the negro had the right to vote in eleven States out of the old thirteen. In your trouble you have made us citizens. In 1812, Gen. Jackson addressed us as citizens, “fellow-citizens.” “fellow-citizens.” Be wanted us to fight. He wanted us to fight We were citizens then! And now, when you come to frame a conscription bill, the negro is a citizen again. He has been a citizen just three times in the history of this government, and it has always been in time of trouble. In time of trouble we are citizens. Shall we be citizens in war, and aliens in peace? Would that be just?
I ask my friends who are apologizing for not insisting upon this right, where can the black man look in this country for the assertion of this right if he may not look to the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society? Where under the whole heavens can be look for sympathy in asserting this right if he may not look to this platform? Have you lifted us up to a certain height to see that we aware men, and then are any disposed to leave us there, without seeing that we are put in possession of all our rights? We look naturally to this platform for the assertion of all our rights, and for this one especially. I understand the anti-slavery societies of this country to be based on two principles -first, the freedom of the blacks of this country; and, second, the elevation of them. Let me not be mis-
<c04>
understood here. I am not asking for sympathy at the hands of Abolitionists, sympathy at the hands of any. I think the American people are disposed often to be generous rather than just. I look over this country at the present time, and I see Educational Societies, Sanitary Commissions, Freedmen’s Associations, and the like,-all very good; but in regard to the colored people, there is always more that is benevolent, I perceive, than just, manifested towards as. What I ask for the negro is not benevolence, not pity, not sympathy, but simply justice. (Applause.) The American people have always been anxious to know what they shall do with us. Gen. Banks was distressed with solicitude as to what he should do with the negro. Everybody has asked the question, and they learned to ask it early of the abolitionists: “What shall we do with the negro?” I have had but one answer from the beginning. Do nothing with us! Your doing with us has already played the mischief with us. Do nothing with us! If the apples will not remain on the tree of their own strength, if they are worm-eaten at the core, if they are early ripe and disposed to fall, let them fall! I am not for tying or fastening them on the tree in any way, except by nature’s plan, and if they will not stay there, let them fall. And if the negro cannot stand oft his own legs, let him fall also. All I ask is, give him a chance to stand on his own legs 1legs! Let him alone! If you see him on his way to school, let him alone,-don’t disturb him! If you see him going to the dinner table at a hotel, let him go! go ! If you see him going to the ballot-box, let him alone!— don’t disturb him! (Applause.) If you see him going into a workshop, just let him alone,—your interference is doing him positive injury. Gen. Banks’s “preparation “preparation” is of a piece with this attempt to prop up the negro. Let him fall if he cannot stand alone! If the negro cannot live by the line of eternal justice, so beautifully pictured to you in the illustration used by Mr. Phillips, the fault will not be yours; it will be His who made the negro, and established that line for his government (Applause.) Let him live or die by that. If you will only untie his hands, and give him a chance, I think he will live. He will work as readily for himself as the white man. A great many delusions have been swept away by this war. One was, that the negro would not work; he has proved his ability to work. Another was, that the negro would not fight; that he possessed only the most sheepish attributes of humanity; was a perfect lamb, or an “ Uncle Tom;” disposed to take off his coat whenever required, fold his hands, and be whipped by any body who wanted to whip him;-but“ the war has proved that there is a great deal of human nature in the negro, and that he will fight, as Mr. Quincy, our President, said, in earlier days than these, “ when there is a reasonable probability of his whipping anybody.” (Laughter and applause.)
But here I am talking away, and taking up the time which belongs to others.

FREEDOM TRIUMPHANT!
GRAND JUBILEE MEETING
IN THE MUSIC HALL,IN THE MUSIC HALL,
To Rejoice over the Amendment prohibiting Human Slavery in the United States forever.
SPEECHES OF HON. JOSIAH QUINCY, WM.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, REV. DR. KIRK,
KIRK, AND MAJ. GEN. BUTLER.
A large and brilliant audience were assembled in the Music Hall on Saturday evening last, to rejoice over the passage by Congress, and the ratification by the Legislatures of many of the States, of the Constitutional Amendment prohibiting Human Slavery in the United States hereafter and forever. The meeting was one of the most enthusiastic gatherings of the friends of freedom ever held in this city, and was in every respect eminently worthy of the great event in national history which had called it forth. The arrangements, in charge of a Committee of which Col. Albert J. Wright was Chairman, and Mr. S. B. Stebbins Secretary, were excellently planned and admirably carried out. The Hall was decorated for the occasion, in their usual style of elegance and good taste, by Messrs. Lamprell, Short and Marble, city decorators. Mrs. L. S. Frohock presided at the organ; the choral performances were under direction of Messrs. S. B. Ball, J. Q. Wetherbee and J. R. Elliot.
Previous to the calling of the meeting to order, Mrs. Frohock executed a well-selected programme of popular and national music, about half an hour in length, concluding with the “Hallelujah Chorus,” after which Col. Wright came forward, and spoke as follows:-
REMARKS OF COL. ALBERT J. WRIGHT.
We have invited you here to give thanks and rejoice over one of the greatest events of this eventful age-the near completion of the work which was begun when our fathers, in 1776, declared to the world that “all men are created equal.” The adoption of the proposed alteration of the Constitution of the United States, by Congress, has been announced to us sooner than many of us had faith to expect, but we accept the announcement with humility, with joy, and with thanksgiving to God. In this, as in many other glorious events of these days in which we live, let His the people recognize that Hand from which cometh every good and perfect gift. Let as gift Let us be faithful to the high trust committed to this generation, and God will speed the right. The programme of exercises for the evening is in your hands. I had hoped that I should be able to introduce to you, as the President of the evening, His Excellency the Governor. His warm and generous spirit is in sympathy with the object for which we have assembled, but I am sorry to be obliged to tell you that we cannot be favored with his bodily presence. A sudden indisposition compels him to deny us the anticipated pleasure of listening to his volcanic eloquence. The next best person that I see here to perform the duties of the chair is the Hon. Josiah Quincy, whom I introduce to you as President of the meeting.
Hon. Josiah Quincy rose, and called upon Rev. Robert C. Waters ton to offer drayer. Mr. Waters ton addressed the Throne of Grace in most eloquent and impressive words of thanksgiving for the accomplishment of the great event which they were assembled to celebrate. The audience then joined in singing the hymn, “The morning light is breaking,” after which Mr. Quincy briefly addressed the meeting.
REMARKS OF HON. JOSIAH QUINCY.
I need not inform you that my appearance at this moment is entirely unexpected. I have been called upon at this late moment to preside. Yet I am most happy to stand before you on this occasion. This is a day possessed to me of the most sacred associations. I stand here not on my own merits. I am here but as the representative of a great, and, as I may say, of a good man. To-day is the anniversary of the birth of Josiah Quincy, who is now, with many others, I doubt not, congratulating each other in a higher sphere on this great event How great a cloud of witnesses, pioneers in the great cause of Anti-Slavery, now stand around, beholding the accomplishment of this glorious event of human redemption-Benjamin Lundy, the Quaker pioneer, to whom Mr. Garrison owed his first promptings in the Anti-Slavery cause; Elijah P. Lovejoy, the Anti-Slavery martyr of Alton, John Quincy Adams, “ the old man eloquent,” Joshua R. Giddings, Wm. Slade, Owen Lovejoy, Horace Mann, Theodore Parker, Isaac T. Hopper, Ellis Gray Loring, Francis Jackson, Charles F. Hovey,-are, we may believe, exchanging granulations on this most happy day. Our Constitution has been called a “ covenant with death and an agreement with hell,” but no longer shall it merit such words of shame and ignominy, nor that glorious old Flag be <illegible> with words of scorn.
Mr. James R. Elliot then sang “Star-Spangled Banner,” the audience rising, and joining in the chorus.
<c05>
The chairman then said that it was very seldom that a philanthropist, engaged in a great movement struggling for the ascendancy, had the opportunity of beholding the result of his labors. There was, however, such an one present—the first great pioneer of the Anti-Slavery cause, WILLIAM LLOYDLLOYD GARRISON, who would now address the assembly.
On coming forward, Mr. Garrison was unable to proceed for some time—the immense audience greeting him with enthusiastic, long-protracted and over-whelming applause, concluding with three rousing cheers. As soon as he could be heard, he proceeded to say:-
SPEECH OF WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
When I was requested, by our honored chairman, to write upon a slip of paper some of the names of those who had made themselves conspicuous in the Anti-Slavery movement, but who had ascended to a higher sphere of existence, I had but a few moments in which to recall their memories. The list might be extended indefinitely; but I beg leave to add to it, on this occasion, the name of Professor Follen, among the earliest and the truest, the friend and champion of impartial freedom in Europe and America; and him, whose “soul is marching on,” John Brown. (Enthusiastic cheers.)-At this point, Major General Butler came upon the platform, and was received with a storm of applause from the audience, who rose to their feet, and clapped their hands, and waved hats and handkerchiefs for several minutes. Quietude being restored, Mr. Garrison continued as follows :—
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:—InGentleman:-In the long course of history, there are events of such transcend-ant sublimity and importance as to make all human speech utterly inadequate to portray the emotions they excite. The event we are here to celebrate is one of these-grand, inspiring, glorious, beyond all power of utterance, and far-reaching beyond all finite computation. (Applause.)
At last, after eighty years of wandering and darkness,—of cruelty and oppression, on a colossal scale, towards a helpless and an unoffending race—of recreancy to all the Heaven-attested principles enunciated by our revolutionary sires in justification of their course; through righteous judgment and fiery retribution; through national dismemberment and civil war; through suffering, bereavement and lamentation, extending to every city, town, village and hamlet, almost every household in the land; through a whole generation of Anti-Slavery warning, expostulation and rebuke, resulting in wide spread contrition and repentance; the nation, rising in the majesty of its moral power and political sovereignty, has decreed that LIBERTY shall be “ PROCLAIMED THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS“PROCLAIMED THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF,” and that henceforth no such anomalous being as slaveholder or slave shall exist beneath the “ stars and stripes,” within the domains of the republic. (Cheers.)
Sir, no such transition of feeling and sentiment, as has taken place within the last four years, stands recorded on the historic page; a change that seems as absolute as it is stupendous. Allow me to confess that, in view of it, and of the mighty consequences that must result from it to unborn generations, I feel to-night in a thoroughly methodistical state of mind -disposed at the top of my voice, and to the utmost stretch of my lungs, to shout “ Glory!” “ Alleluia!”“Glory!” “Alleluia!” “Amen and amen!” (Rapturous applause—“Glory!” “ Alleluia! “ “ Amen and amen! ““Alleluia!” “Amen and amen!” being repeated with great unction by various persons in the audience.) Gladly and gratefully would I exclaim with one of old, “ The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad.” (Applause.) With the rejoicing Psalmist, I would say to the old and the young, “ O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy endureth forever. To him alone that doeth great wonders; for his mercy endureth forever. To him that overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea; for his mercy endureth forever. And brought out Israel from among them, with a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm; for his mercy endureth forever.” (Loud applause.) “Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord!”
Mr. Chairman, friends and strangers stop me in the streets, daily, to congratulate me on having been permitted to live to witness the almost miraculous change which has taken place in the feelings and sentiments of the people on the subject of slavery, and in favor of the long rejected but ever just and humanshumane doctrine of immediate and universal emancipation. Ah, sir, no man living better understands or more joyfully recognizes the vastness of that change than I do. But most truly can I say that it causes within me no feeling of personal pride or exultation-God forbid! But I am unspeakably happy to believe, not only that this vast assembly, but that the great mass of my countrymen are now heartily disposed to admit that, in disinterestedly seeking, by all righteous instrumentalities, for more than thirty years, the utter abolition of slavery, I have not acted the part of a madman, fanatic, incendiary, or traitor, (immense applause,) but have at all times been of sound mind, (laughter and cheers,) a true friend of liberty and humanity, animated by the highest patriotism, and devoted to the welfare, peace, unity, and ever increasing prosperity and glory of my native land! (Cheers.) And the same verdict you will render in vindication of the clear-sighted, untiring, intrepid, unselfish, uncompromising Anti-Slavery phalanx, who, through years of conflict and persecution—misrepresented, misunderstood, ridiculed and anathematized from one end of the country to the other-have labored “ in season and out of season “season” to bring about this glorious result. (Renewed applause.) You will, I venture to think and say, agree with me, that only RADICAL ABOLITIONISM is, at this trial-hour, LOYALTY, JUSTICE, IMPARTIAL FREEDOM, NATIONAL SALVATION—theFREEDOM, NATIONAL SALVATION-the Golden Rule blended with the Declaration of Independence! (Great applause.)
Mr. Chairman, in the early days of the Anti-Slavery struggle, when those who ventured to espouse it were “ few and far between,” we endeavored to recruit our ranks by singing at our gatherings-
“ Come, join the abolitionists.“Come, join the abolitionists,
The fair, the old, the young,
And, with a warn and cheerful seal,
Come, help the cause along!
O, that will be joyful, joyful, joyful,
When all shall proudly say,
‘This, this is FREEDOM’S day! Oppression, <illegible>flee away!’
‘Tis“Tis, then we’ll sing, and offerings bring,
When FREEDOM wins the day!”
Thanks unto God, that day is here and now! Freedom is triumphant! THE PEOPLE have decreed the death of slavery! All the controlling elements of the country-national, state, religious,religions, political, literary, social, economical, wealthy, industrial-are combined for its immediate extinction. There is no longer occasion, therefore, for the repetition of that persuasive song. As Jefferson said, in his inaugural message to Congress, “ We are all Federalists, we are all Republicans “—to,all Republicans” -so, in view of the dominant Anti-Slavery sentiment of the land, it may now be comprehensively declared, “ We are all abolitionists, we are all loyalists, to the back bone.” (Loud applause.)
Fellow-citizens, we are here, moved as by one electric impulse, to commemorate a radical change in the Constitution of the United States—so radical that, whereas, for more than seventy years, it served as a mighty bulwark for the slave system, giving it national sanction and security, now it forbids human slavery in every part of the republic! Pardon me for reminding you of the old pro-slavery guaranties contained in that Constitution, all of which the present amendment obliterates at a blow. As the first competent witness, let” thelet “the old man eloquent.” JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, be summoned as a witness. The following is his testimony:–
“In the articles of confederation, there was no guarantee for the property of the slaveholder–no doubledouble representation of him in the Federal <illegible>councils no power of taxation—no–no power of taxation-no stipulation for the recovery of fugitive slaves.Slaves. But when the powers of government came to be delegated to THE UNION, the South-that is,is. South Carolina and Georgia— refused their subscription to the parchment, till it should be saturated
<c06>
with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purity, no quarantine could extinguish. The freemen of the North gave way, and the deadly venom of slavery was infused into the Constitution of freedom.”
Again:
“It cannot be denied-the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slaves. The first was the immunity for twenty years of preserving the African slave trade; the second was the stipulation to surrender fugitive slaves-an engagement positively prohibited by the laws of God delivered from Sinai; and thirdly, the exaction fatal to the principles of popular representation, of a representation for slaves -for articles of merchandise under the names of persons.”
“The delegates from South Carolina and Georgia distinctly avowed that, without this guarantee of protection to their property in slaves, they would not yield their assent to the Constitution; and the freemen of the North, reduced to the alternative of departing from the vital principle of their liberty, or forfeiting the Union itself, averted their faces, and with <illegible> hand subscribed the bond.”
Again:
“The bargain between Freedom and Slavery contained in the Constitution of the United States is MORALLY AND POLITICALLEY VICIOUS, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified, <illegible> and oppressive by riveting the chains of slavery, by pledging of the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and <illegible> by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to its owners, and persons not to be <illegible> for themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation. The consequence has been, that the slave representation has governed the Union. Benjamin’s portion above his brethren has ravined as a wolf. In the morning he has devoured the pray, and in the evening he has divided the spoil.”
The next witness, Mr. Chairman, is your own venerated father, who, in a speech delivered at the Whig State Convention in Boston, ten years ago, said:-
“The slaveholders of the South have used the powers vested in them by the Constitution for their own interests, as every other selfish association of men would have done under the same <illegible>, with the same powers, and under the same temptations.”
And, referring to the threats continually made by the slave oligarchy of the South, that they would dissolve the Union if the Anti-Slavery agitation was not suppressed at the North, he added-
“Are the slaveholders fools or madmen? They go out of the Union for the purpose of maintaining the subjection of their slaves? Why, the arm of the Union is the very sinew of that subjection! ITS CONTINUACE IS HIS FORLORN HOPE.”
The present paralyzed and dying condition of chattel slavery, as the result of secession, is demonstrative evidence that “the arm of the Union was the very sinew of the slaves’ subjection, and the slaveholders’ main strength.”
Only one other witness shall be summoned on this occasion. Listen to the confession of the lamented WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING:-
“There is some excuse for communities when under a generous impulse they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binging on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTUTION.SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We, their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully and dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.”
“We cannot fly from the shame or guilt of the institution as long as long as we give it any support. Most unhappily, there are provisions of the Constitution binding us to give it support. Let us resolve to free ourselves from these. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong-doing, To this conviction the free States are tending
Again:
“The Constitution requires the free States to send back to bondage the fugitive slave. Does this show that we have no concern with the domestic institutions of the South? that the guilt of them, if such there be, is wholly theirs, and in no degree ours! This clause makes us direct partakers of the guilt; and, of consequence, we have a vital interest in the matter of slavery. It will be said that the South will insist on this stipulation, because it is necessary to the support of her institutions. If the necessity be real, then it follows that the free states are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailors and constables of the institution. But it is said, the South is passionate, and threatens to secede, if we agitate this subject slavery. In such an event, there would be no need of anti-slavery societies or of abolition agitations, to convert the North. The blow that would sever the Union for this cause would produce on instantaneous explosion to shake the whole land. The moral sentiment against slavery, now kept down by the interests and duties which grow out of the Union, would burst its fetters, and be re-enforced by the whole strength of the patriotic principle, as well as by all the prejudices and local passions which would follow disunion.”
Sir, “in the mouth of two or three witnesses”- and especially of such witnesses-“shall every word be established.” But what need of summoning even these? Has not THE NATION itself, every political struggle, in every form of governmental action, ever since the Constitution was ordained, recognized and upheld these revolting pro-slavery features of that instrument?
In your allusion, Mr. Chairman, to the departed worthies of the Anti-Slavery struggle, you correctly stated that some of them felt compelled, by conscientious scruples, to withdraw their support from such a Constitution, regarding it as a “covenant with death and an agreement with hell.” Such has been my own position, for many years past; and, leaving others to follow their highest convictions on this subject, as the professed advocate and representative of the slave I have felt constrained, as a matter of duty and consistency, to testify against such a Union and Constitution. But now, Sir, that the old “covenant with death” is superseded by a covenant with life-now that we are in concurrence with heaven, and no longer “at agreement with hell”-now that “Liberty and Union are one and inseparable”-I no longer occupy an isolated and antagonistic position, but rejoice in a common redemption (Cheers.)
And to whom is the country more immediately indebted for this vital and saving amendment of the Constitution than, perhaps, to any other man? I believe I may confidently answer-to the humble rail-splitter of Illinois-to the Presidential chain-breaker for millions of the oppressed-to ABRAHAM LINCOLN! (Immense and long continued applause, ending with three cheers for the President.) I understand that it was by his wish and influence, that that plank was made a part of the Baltimore Platform; and, taking his position unflinchingly upon that Platform, THE PEOPLE have overwhelmingly sustained both him and it, ushering in THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.(Renewed cheering.)
Be assured, Abraham Lincoln can be trusted to the end. You may rely upon his honesty and integrity, in whatever he has said or done for the overthrow of slavery. In spite of all the wiles of all the <illegible> Peace Commissioners, he will be true to his word (cheers); he will never consent, under any <illegible>, to the reenslavement of any one of the millions whose yokes he has broken. (Loud applause.)
Fellow-citizens, it is through terrible judgments for our great national transgression that, as a people, we have been led to see the path of duty and of safety, and to follow it. Reverently and resignedly would I exclaim:-
“Even so, Father! Let they will be done!
Turn and O’erturn; and what thou hast begun
In judgment or in mercy! As for me,
If but the <illegible> and frailest, let me be
<illegible> more numbered with the truly free,
Who find why service perfect liberty!
I fain would thank <illegible> that my mortal life
Has <illegible> the hour, (albeit through care and pain,)
When Good and Evil, as for final strife,
Chose dim and vast on Armageddon’s plain;
And Michael and his angels once again
Drive howling back the Sprits of the Night.
Oh! for the faith to read the signs aright,
And, from the angle of they perfect sight,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
See Truth’s white banner floating on before;
And the Good Cause, despite of venal friends
And base expedients, move to noble ends:
See Peace with Freedom make to Time amends,
And, through its cloud of dust, the threshing-floor,
Failed by thy thunder, heaped with chaffless grain!”
By whom has this wondrous revolution been wrought? Who will presume to call it his own work? Who will be guilty of the folly or impiety to ascribe it to any mere human instrumentalities? It is heaven not of men. It is the triumph of principles, not of persons.
“Speed on thy work, Lord God of Hosts!
And when the bondman’s chain is riven,
And swells from all our guilty coasts
The anthem of the free to Heaven,—
Oh, not to those whom Thou hast led,
As with thy cloud and fire before,
But unto Thee, in fear and dread,
Be praise and glory evermore!”
Mr. Chairman, there is a close analogy between the struggle for the abolition of the foreign slave trade in England, and that for the abolition of slavery in the United States. On reading CLARKSON’S HISTORY, it is only necessary to strike out one name, and insert another—one pro-slavery menace or denunciation, and insert another—one sophisticatal plea for the continuance of the slavery-traffic, and insert another for the perpetuity of slavery—and it applies as well in the one case as it does in the other. Let us hear what Clarkson testifies as to the revelations of character made by that struggle in which he took so distinguished a part:—
“Thus ended one of the most glorious contests, after a continuance for twenty years, of any ever carried on in any age or country;—a contest, not of brutal violence, but of reason;-a contest between those who felt deeply for the happiness and the honor of their fellow-creatures, and those who, through vicious custom and the impulses of avarice, had trampled under foot the sacred rights of their nature, and had even attempted to efface all title to the divine image from their minds.
Of the immense advantage of this contest, I know not to speak; indeed, the very agitation of the question which it involved has been highly important. Never was the heart of man so expanded; never were its generous sympathies so generally and so perseveringly excited. These sympathies, thus called into existence, have been useful for the preservation of a national virtue.
It has been useful, also, in the discrimination of moral character; in private life it has enabled us to distinguish the virtuous from the more vicious part of the community. It has shown the general philanthropist; it has unmasked the vicious, in spite of his pretention to virtue. It has afforded us the same knowledge in public life; it has separated the moral statesman from the wicked politician. It has shown us who, in the legislative and executive offices of our country, are fit to save, and who to destroy a nation.”
The same thing has been demonstrated in the prosecution of the Anti-Slavery movement in this country. Honor to those who, holding high official station, have used their influence to the furtherance of the cause of universal emancipation—such men as Giddings, and Lovejoy, and Sumner, and Wilson, and their congressional associates! Honor to President Lincoln, to Governor Andrew, and may I not say to Major General Butler, (great cheering,) for what they have done, since the rebellion broke out, both for the extinction of slavery and the relief and elevation of freedmen! Honor to all those who, in any way, have helped in the good work! They constitute a great army, whom none but God can number. Not a tear has been shed, not a prayer offered, not a testimony borne, not a contribution made, not an effort put forth in vain. All these have been needed to bring us to our present hopeful condition; and none could have been spared.
Do we realize the grandeur of the event we are assembled to celebrate? It is not merely negro emancipation, but universal emancipation. (Cheers.) It is not merely disenthralling four millions, but thirty-four millions. (Renewed cheers.) It is not merely liberating bodies, but souls—? outwardly and inwardly alike. It is an act, not in hostility to the South, but for the general welfare—? the good of the whole country. It is not to depress or injure any class, but to promote all human interests. In fine, it is the Declaration of Independence, no longer an abstract manifesto, containing certain “glittering generalities,” simply to vindicate our revolutionary fathers for seceding from the mother country; but it is that Declaration —CONSTITUTIONALIZED-made THE SUPREME LAW OF THE LAND—for the protection of the rights and liberties of all who dwell on the American soil. (Cheers.)
Hitherto, as a nation, we have been a by-word and a hissing even among the despotisms of the old world; for they will not tolerate so infamous a system as that of Negro slavery within their domains. But now that we have thrown off this terrible incubus, and are resolved to be consistently and universally free, we shall become world-wide propagandists in the cause of human liberty and republican institutions, through the power of a glorious example, and the irresistible growth of mighty ideas. (Cheers.) On this continent no Maximilian must be allowed to sit securely on his throne. (Protracted Cheering.) The despotisms of Europe must be made to tremble to their foundations, and their down-trodden millions summoned to assert their rights under the banner of “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity!” (Applause.) We will re-echo the admonitory, penitential and sublime words of WHITTIER:—
“Hear it, old Europe! we have sworn
The death of slavery. When it falls,
Look to your vassals in their turn,
Your poor dumb millions, crushed and worn, 
Your prisons and your palace-walls!
Oh, kingly mockers!—scoffing show 
What deeds in Freedom’s name we do;
Yet know that every taunt ye throw
Across the waters, goads our slow
Progression tow’rds the right and true.
Not always shall your outraged poor,
Appalled by democratic crime,
Grind as their fathers ground before;—
The hour which sees our prison door
Swing wide shall be their triumph time!
On then, my brother! every blow
Ye deal is felt the wide earth through; 
Whatever here uplifts the low,
Or humbles Freedom’s hateful foe,
Blesses the Old World through the New!”
Our country thus redeemed, thus qualified to lead and save, with not a slave left to clank his chains, each one of us may proudly quote the language of the Irish orator Curran, with a single alteration:—
“I speak in the spirit of the American law, which makes liberty commensurate with and inseparable from the American soil; which proclaims, even to the stranger and the sojourner, the moment he sets his foot upon American earth, that the ground on which he treads is holy, and consecrated by the Genius of Universal Emancipation. No matter in what language his doom may have been pronounced no matter what complexion, incompatible with freedom, an Indian or an African sun may have burned upon him; no matter in what disastrous battle his liberty may have been cloven down; no matter with what solemnities he may have been devoted upon the altar of slavery; the first moment he touches the sacred soil of America, the altar and the god sink together in the dust; his soul walks abroad in her own majesty; his body swells beyond the measure of its chains that burst from around him; and he stands redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible Genius of Universal Emancipation.” (Cheers.)
In conclusion, Mr. Chairman and fellow-citizens, slavery abolished, the Constitution purged, and liberty the acknowledged birthright of every man of every complexion and race, I feel, as I never felt before, in the highest strain of patriotism to exclaim—
“Oh, thus be it ever, when freemen shall stand 
Between our loved home and the war’s desolation;
Blest with victory and peace, may our Heaven-rescued land.
Praise the Power that hath made and preserved us a nation!
Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just;
And this be our motto, “In GOD is our trust;”
And the star-spangled banner in triumph shall wave 
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave!”
(Long continued applause.)
The following Hymn, written for the occasion by Oliver Wendell Holmes, was then sung to the tune of
<c02>
“Old Hundred,” the congregation rising, and joining in the melody:—
Giver of all that crowns our days,
With grateful hearts we sing thy praise!
Through deep and desert, led by Thee,
Our Canaan’s promised land we see!
Ruler of Nations, judge our cause!
If we have kept thy holy laws,
The sons of Belial curse in vain
The day that rends the captive’s chain.
Thou God of vengeance! Israel’s Lord!
Break in their grasp the shield and sword,
And make thy righteous judgments known
Till all thy foes are overthrown!
Then, Father, lay Thy healing hand
In mercy on our stricken land;
Lead all its wanderers to the fold,
And be their Shepherd at of old!
So shall our Nation’s song ascend
To Thee, our Ruler, Father, Friend;
While Heaven’s wide arch resounds again
With peace on earth, good will to men!
Rev. Edward N. Kirk, D. D., being introduced, addressed the audience at some length.
REMARKS OF REV. E. N. KIRK, D. D.
Dr. Kirk said that in April, 1861, he was on his way to Charleston when he heard that Fort Sumter had been fired on. The only word that could express his feelings was, “Glorious!” for he then knew slavery was doomed. They were there to rejoice over the removal of a great evil. Slavery had been the cause of the characteristic pride, ambition and hatred of slaveholders. Northern society had felt its influences—merchants, politicians, the church. Public sentiment had been degraded. Our Fathers abhorred slavery. Vice President Stephens admits that the opinion of all eminent statesmen was, that the enslaving of the African race was in violation of the laws of nature, wrong in principle, social, moral and political. It is the South that has changed, changed since Mr. Calhoun vowed vengeance on Gen. Andrew Jackson. It is slavery that has brought the country to the verge of ruin. Jefferson said, “The rock on which the Union will split is slavery.” Yes, that very Union which Northern statesmen tried to save by compromise. This act is a great movement of the nation backward. And now, these portentous clouds are passing away. The ship of State has passed safely by these treacherous ledges. Slavery has robbed a race of its birthright; it has tarnished our national honor, and imperilled our national existence. It has humiliated the North, and corrupted the church and the pulpit.
This is an hour of exultation because hope dawns on us—hope for millions whose hearts have as lively a sense of hope as ours. Hope dawns on Africa! The mighty nation that thrived on her tears and agony has relented and repented. Hope dawns for our beloved country. Imagination cannot reach the height from which to contemplate the results. A sun has burst forth upon the nation, with healing in his wings. She has now performed that great work which is the first step into that glorious future which God has prepared for her. It is a solemn religious national act. It would have its effect on the war; on the negro in our armies; on the negro in rebeldom. It has its effect on ourselves. We have done right. We stand right with the nations. We no more lie in our Declaration of Independence. We lay our pride and prejudice on God’s altar. It has its effect on our future prosperity. It would be dreadful if the war should close with slavery still existing. There is nothing I dread more than a clique of politicians, backed by millions of white and black slaves, an unprincipled landed aristocracy. To whom are we indebted for the achievement of this great result? To the formers of public sentiment—to Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Henry, to the Quakers, to the Presbyterian church, to Wesley, to Garrison, to John Brown, to President Lincoln, to all honest Democrats. Above all, to God Most High, from whose decree there is no appeal.
Rev. George A. Rue, pastor of the Anderson Street Bethel Church, (colored,) sung “Strike the loud timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark sea,” with thrilling effect, after which the Chairman introduced Major General Butler, as one who had done perhaps more than any other military man for the freedom of the slave, and who, laying aside old party prejudices, had stood up manfully for the rights of the contraband. (Applause.)
In coming forward, Gen. Butler was received with a renewal of the enthusiastic demonstrations that greeted his first appearance on the platform, which was continued with even greater vehemence for several minutes. Order being restored, he proceeded to address the meeting, as follows:
SPEECH OF MAJOR GENERAL BUTLER.
Almost ninety years since, amid the radiant glories of midsummer, our fathers assembled to congratulate each other upon a declaration of human rights, which has since been claimed to be a charter to the white man only. Seventy-seven years ago, in mid-winter, Massachusetts debated the acceptance of the Constitution of the United States—the solemn compact of assurance to those rights—the most perfect form of government ever devised by man—but which left uncared for and unprovided safeguards of freedom and equality of right to all men, irrespective of color. Doubtless our fathers believed that the clear interests of the rising nation would protect it from the then receding weight of human slavery. But, alas! a single Massachusetts invention—the cotton gin—opposed the present interests of the individual to the future good of the State, and made the burden—greater than that of the Pilgrim Christian—seem eternal From that one defect of constitutional law has arisen the most gigantic national sin, followed by the most terrible national retribution with which the Divine will has seen fit to afflict the children of men. The nation, brought to a sense of justice by its chastisement, we are now met to congratulate ourselves upon the first step taken in supplying this omission of the frame of government of’87. Released from all constitutional obligations to protect slavery, acting upon the frame of government itself, three-fourths of the loyal people of the country will have no difficulty in erasing from their fundamental law this, the last blot upon their civilization. (Applause.) Amid the joyous scenes of this triumph of the right, which animate the hearts of all good men, even now, and here, it may not be unfit to pause for a moment, to consider the duties and, obligations under which we find ourselves to this; class of citizens, so constituted and declared by this change in our organic law. Laying aside all prejudices, giving up all theories, putting away all predilections, we should approach the subject as one calling for prompt, active and efficient justice; at least, to make amends for former long-continued wrongs.
By the final passage of the amendment which we celebrate, every negro slave is made a citizen of the United States, entitled as of right to every political and legal immunity and privilege which belong to that great franchise. (Loud applause.) He may well say, I am an American citizen. (Renewed applause.) If he may not proudly proclaim with the Apostle, “I was free-born,” yet he can truly claim as did the Chief Captain, “With a great sum obtained I this freedom.” (Great applause.) Of these rights, or either of them, no man, no combination or confederation of men, can with justice deprive the negro. As a nation, he is of us, with us, and a part of us; equal in right under the law. (Cheers and applause.) To the men of Massachusetts, in this so clear and self-evident proposition, there seems no difficulty. Since 1789, the colored man in Massachusetts, under the laws thereof, modified only by the laws of the United States, has enjoyed the rights and privileges of every other citizen of Massachusetts. The child goes to the same school. The man partakes of the same employments. The same learned professions, medicine, the bar, the pulpit, are open to him, and more than all, be carries to the election of his rulers and framing of the laws the equal ballot, which
“—soft falling
Like the snow-flake on the sod,
Doth execute a freeman’s will,
As lightning does the will of God.”
(Great applause.)
<c03>
In other sections of the country, the mind, warped and twisted by the influence of the system of slavery, whose funeral obsequies we are now attending, does not at once comprehend these truths, and admit the force of the inexorable logic of EQUAL RIGHTS. Men, otherwise just and good, have been brought to believe that the negro can have no practical rights as a citizen—no claims to be considered as an integral part of the inhabitants of the country, and is to be treated as if he were an alien. Nay, more; as if he were a beast, and a dangerous beast beside, either to be sent out of the country, or to be herded and penned as such, in some remote or unhealthy corner thereof, as not fit to live on the soil which gave him birth, and to which he has every right, and is held by every tie and attachment which bind a man to that portion of earth which he calls home and country. It has been therefore proposed to send him away; to herd him in rice swamps or cotton islands, where alone he may listen to the sad music of the roar of the ocean surf, not more relentless and unceasing to him than the wrongs of his fellow-man. There to prevent any white man or white woman in the missionary labor of love to visit him. Uneducated, to put him beyond the pale of education—to allow his child never to know the benefit of the common school. Just released from a worse than Egyptian bondage, to make him a colonist, without the implements of colonization, or fostering care on the part of the mother country.
To any such illogical and unjust treatment of the negro, it need not be said that the people of Massachusetts will never consent (Loud applause.) Our material interests, the interests of the country, oppose it. For two hundred and fifty years at least, we have been importing the laborer, because we needed labor in this country. The necessity for labor here has caused it to be imported, even to be employed in the wasteful habits of slavery. Shall we, now that four millions of strong hands and willing hearts are made free laborers, productive and profitable, take them from the lands which they have tilled—from the homes in which they have been reared—from their hearth-stones, as dear to them as our root tree is to us, and send them away to some foreign land, or shut them up in some portion of this, where their labor, if not wholly unproductive and lost, must be unprofitable? Our sense of justice denies it. They have taken up arms freely and willingly in our defence, and we have given them their freedom and rights as citizens.
What just freedom is it to them to be penned in a corner or to be shut up in a rice swamp, and not be allowed to see the face of their white fellow-citizens, except it may be of a soldier sent as their guard? What true citizenship is it to be deprived of their equal rights in the land their arms have helped to save from the fiery furnace of rebellion, and to be put upon such portions of it only as are not thought to be well habitable by their white fellow-soldiers? What fair division can it be of the heritage acquired in part by their blood, to give their white-fellow soldier one hundred and sixty acres of land to be located where he chooses, “the finest the sun e’er shone upon,” to him and his heirs forever, while to the colored soldier, scarred, perhaps, with honorable wounds, but forty acres of a rice swamp to be allotted, or eight hundred feet front of marsh on a sluggish river, and that a possessary title only? And yet the distinguished general who makes this proposition says, “The young and able-bodied negroes are to be encouraged to contribute their share towards maintaining their own freedom, and securing their rights as citizens of the United States.” What encouragement to enlist is this? What freedom? What rights of citizen ship for which to shed one’s blood, even if it is only black blood? What wise statesmanship ever yet founded a colony from which the young and able-bodied men were taken as soldiers?—where the blacksmiths, carpenters, and the skilled mechanics were taken from the settlement; and where the respectable heads of families had no inducements held out to them for leaving the homes of their childhood, and making new homes in the wilderness, save a possessary title only to forty acres of land, not too much out of water? Under such inducements, under such pupilage, with such restrictions, and with such hopes, even our hardy Anglo-Saxon fathers, who landed at Plymouth, would not have thriven. How much less, then, is the negro, by our wrongs untaught, uncultivated, and without the habit of self-independence, fitted thus to take care of himself! The precepts of our holy religion forbid it. Every benevolent Christian in the land has contributed his mite to send the self-sacrificing missionary to redeem the Pagan from darkness, and yet here it is proposed to erect a heathen age upon our own soil, into which no Christian minister or Sabbath school, teacher upon their high and holy mission, shall penetrate, if it is their good fortune to have a white face. I repeat again: Massachusetts is unalterably opposed to any proposition of colonization or segregation of American citizens, made so by this amendment of the Constitution. (Great cheering.)
No! We propose, on the other hand, simply to let the negro alone (renewed cheers); that he shall, in fact, enjoy the right of selecting his place of labor; the person for whom he will labor, if not for himself; to make his own contract for his labor; to determine its length and its value; to allow him at least the enjoyment of the primordial curse, “In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread;” restrained only by the laws applying to him, and to all, alike; as the rain falleth upon the just and the unjust. We also accept the fact that by our injustice to him, and his race, he is thrown upon the government, unused to care for himself, unfurnished with means of beginning life anew. And we agree that it is our duty, and the duty of the government, to remedy this injustice; to see to it that he is taught; that he is gradually brought to a state of self-independence, and independence of others; that he shall have a fair share of the lands that he and his fathers have wrought upon; that he shall be left in the several States where his labor is needed and is productive; and that he be furnished at first with the means of beginning that life which justice, equal laws and equal rights have for the first time opened up to him and his children forever. And when this is done, we believe our duty is done, and that thereafter, so far as governmental interference goes, the negro is to be let severely ALONE. (Great applause.) We believe that he shall work, as every man must work, or become a vagabond. We believe he must be taught, as every man must be taught, to be a good citizen. We believe he must be furnished with the means of beginning life, as every man must be furnished with the means of beginning life, either with education, habits of self-dependence, or with the fruits of ancestral earnings. And when these are given to him, we have repaired in part the wrong we have done him. We may then hope to receive the pardon of the Almighty for the sins we and our fathers have committed towards him. Failing in this, our duty, we may fear still further chastisement from His hand who has sustained us, as He sustained our fathers, because the bitter cup of purification and chastisement has not yet been suffered to pass from our lips. As a nation we have taken the first step in the right direction. We have bowed to the first principles of eternal justice. If we go forward with no halting tread, taking no step backwards, we may look with humble confidence that hereafter our political sky shall be so healthy and so pure that no thunderstorm and torrent will need to be sent to clear the national atmosphere, and to wash away with blood the sins of the people. Unless we do justice, how can we hope for justice or mercy? And although the punishment for a national wrong and national sin is sometimes in wisdom delayed, and wickedness seems for a time to escape punishment, yet.
“The mills of God grind slowly, but they grind exceeding small”
Amid our joyous notes of congratulatory triumphs may we not also pause for a single moment to turn our memories to those pioneers is the cause of justice, of whom we can say, “Would they had lived to have seen this day!” I need not name them—their memories are still green in our hearts, but the names
<c04>
of two flash before us. PARKER the divine, whose lips ever defended the cause of freedom in this hall! (Applause.) MANN, the teacher, a pioneer of education to an oppressed race. (Applause.) It shall not hereafter be said, that Massachusetts is ungrateful; for to the latter at least, we look forward to the hour when his statue, gracing the front of our legislative halls, shall do honor to him and to our Commonwealth. (Applause.) The two statues overshadowing the broad entrance to our Capitol, making together the full complement of a Massachusetts statesman. One, conservative, who wisely expounded the Constitution as it was; the other, progressive, who dared to look forward to the amendment of a material defect in the great instrument whose passage now peals liberty and equality of rights to the world. (Loud and continued applause.)
General Butler sat down amid another tempest of cheers and applause, which, having subsided, a patriotic song was finely sung by a quartette of gentlemen, and the exercises of the evening were concluded with the Doxology, “Be Thou, O God, exalted high.”

THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
“ARTICLE XIII.
“SECT. 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
SECT. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.”
YEAS 119 (Democrats 16, in Italic.)
Messrs. Alison, Iowa
Ames, Massachusetts 
Anderson, Kentucky
Arnold, Illinois 
Ashley, Ohio
Bailey, Pennsylvania
Baldwin, Michigan
Baldwin, Massachusetts
Baxter, Vermont
Beaman, Michigan
Blane, Maine
Blair, West Virginia
Blow, Missouri
Boutwell, Massachusetts
Boyd, Missouri
Brandagee, Connecticut
Broomall, Pennsylvania
Brown, West Virginia
Ambrose W. Clark, N. Y.
Freeman Clark, N. Y.
Cobb, Wisconsin
Coffroth, Pennsylvania
Colfax, Indiana
Cole, California
Cresswell, Maryland
Davis, Indiana
Davis, New York
Dawes, Massachusetts
Deming, Connecticut
Dixon, Rhode Island
Donnelly, Minnesota
Driggs, Michigan
Dumont, Indiana
Eckley, Ohio
Eliot, Massachusetts
English, Connecticut
Farnsworth, Illinois
Frank, New York
Ganson, New Yorkd
Garfield, Ohio
Gooch, Massachusetts
Grinnell, Iowa
Griswold, New York
Hale, Pennsylvania
Herrick, New York
Higby, California
Hooper, Massachusetts
Hotchkiss, New York
Hubbard, Iowa
Hubbard, Connecticut
Hubbard, New York
Hutchins, Ohio
Ingersoll, Illinois
Jenckes, Rhode
Julian, Indiana
Kasson, Iowa
Kelley, Pennsylvania
Kellogg, Michigan
Kellogg, New York
King, Missouri
Knox, Missouri
Littlejohn, New York
Loan, Missouri
Longyear, Michigan
Marvin, New York
McAllistetr, Pennsylvania
McBride, Oregon
McClurg, Missouri
McIndoe, Wisconsin
Miller, New York
Morehead, Pennsylvania
Morrill, Vermont
Morris, New York
A. Myers, Pennsylvania
L. Myers, Pennsylvania
Nelson, New York
Norton, Illinois
Odell, New York
O’Neill, Pennsylvania
Orth, Indiana
Patterson, New York
Perham, Maine
Pike, Maine
Pomeroy, New York
Price, Iowa
Radford, New York
Randall, Kentucky
Rice, Massachusetts
Rice, Maine
Rollins, New Hampshire
Rollins, Missouri
Schenck, Ohio
Scofield, Pennsylvania
Shannon, California
Sloan, Wisconsin
Smith, Kentucky
Smithers, Delaware
Spalding, Ohio
Starr, New Jersey
Steele, New York,
Stearns, Pennsylvania
Thayer,Pennsylvania
Thomas, Maryland,
Tracy, Pennsylvania
Upson, Michigan
Van Valkenburg, New York
Washburne, Illinois
Washburue, Massachusetts
Webster, Maryland
Whaley, West Virginia
Wheeler, Wisconsin
Williams, Pennsylvania
Wilder, Kansas
Wilson, Iowa
Windham, Minnesota
Woodbridge, Vermont
Worthington, Nevada
Yeaman, Kentucky
NAYS 56—ALL DEMOCRATS.
J. C. Allen, Illinois
W. J. Allen, Illinois
Ancona, Pennsylvania
Bliss, Ohio
Brooks, New York
Brown, Wisconsin
Chanler, New York
Clay, Kentucky
Cox, Ohio
Cravens, Indiana
Dawson, Pennsylvania
Denison,Pennsylvania
Eden, Illinois
Edgerton, Indiana
Eldridge, Wisconsin,
Finck. Ohio
Griden, Kentucky
Hale, Missouri
Harding, Kentucky
Harrington, Indiana
Harris, Maryland
Harris, Illinois
Holman, Indiana
Johnson, Pennsylvania
Johnson, Ohio
Kalbfleisch, New York
Kernan, New York
Knapp, Illinois
Law, Indiana
Long, Ohio
Mallory, Kentucky
Miller, Pennsylvania
Morris, Ohio
Morrison, Illinois
Noble, Ohio
O’Neil, Ohio
Pendleton, Ohio
Perry, New Jersey
Pruyn, New York
Randall, Pennsylvania
Robinson, Illinois
Ross, Illinois
Scott, Missouri
Steele, New Jersey
Stiles, Pennsylvania
Strouse, Pennsylvania
Seward, Illinois
Sweat, Maine
Townsend, New York
Wadsworth, Kentucky
Ward, New York
White, J. W., Ohio
White, C. A., Ohio
Winfield, New York
Ben. Wood, New York
F. Wood, New York
ABSENT OR NOT VOTING, 8—ALL DEMOCRATS.
Lazear, Pennsylvania
Leblonde, Ohio
Marcy, New Hampshire
McDowell, Indiana
McKinney, Ohio
Middleton, New Jersey
Rogers New Jersey
Voorhees, Indiana
It will be seen, by a notice in another column, that the colored citizens of Boston intend holding a JUBILEE MEETING, on Monday evening next, at the Tremont Temple, and that a strong array of speakers has been secured for the occasion. No doubt the house will be crowded. “Rejoice with those who do rejoice.”
CARPENTER’S PAINTING. The exhibition of Mr. Carpenter’s admirable picture of “The Emancipation Proclamation before the Cabinet,” will positively close on Saturday.
This great national and purely historical work has been on exhibition at Williams and Everett’s for more than eight weeks, and from the opening of the exhibition until the present moment has excited a degree of interest rarely surpassed by any work of art ever seen in Boston. It will be exhibited in Portland next week.
GENEROUS AID FOR THE LIBERATOR. We gratefully acknowledge the receipt, at the hands of SAMUEL E. SEWALL, Esq., to sustain the Liberator, and in approval of its course, $170—100 being from one friend, $25 from another, $25 from another, and $20 from another. Also, $50 from EDWARD HARRIS, Esq., of Woonsocket, R. I.
It gives us much pleasure to announce that, with such aids as these, and the liberal donations of our friends EBENEZER D. and GEORGE DRAPER, (each $100,) and W. W. DUTCHER, ($50,) all of Hopedale, we shall not only be able to continue our FREE LIST unabridged, but to enlarge it. This statement, we are sure, will be peculiarly gratifying to our readers.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq. gave a most faithful and impressive lecture before the Boston Young Men’s Christian Association, in Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, Feb. 1. It was well received by a large audience.
Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, gave a lecture at Music Hall, in this city, on Monday evening last, <w> to a large audience. Her subject was, “A Glance at the Future.” She was particularly severe upon President Lincoln, and highly eulogistic of Gen. Butler.
ANOTHER MARKED EVENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY!—The admission of JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., a talented and much respected lawyer of Boston, to practice in the Supreme Court of the United States.
George R. Hichborn, the well-known auctioneer of this city, has been reappointed by Gov. Andrew Justice of the Peace for the County of Suffolk.
In distributing the food to the people of Savannah, Gen. Sherman ordered that no distinction should be made on account of color.
The interview of President Lincoln and Secretary Seward with the unofficial Rebel Peace Commissioners, at Fortress Monroe, has ended in smoke.
<c05>
EMANCIPATION CELEBRATION.
Kansas City, last night, was ablaze with glory over the inauguration of Freedom in Missouri. The city was illuminated at an early hour, and many of the buildings presented a splendid appearance. The finest of all, was the Hammer-slough’s splendid block on the corner of Main and Third streets, which was brilliantly lighted from top to bottom, and made a magnificent display. Many private residences were illuminated, and Kansas City from her valleys and heights reflected a thousand brilliant beams in honor of the auspicious occasion.
Meanwhile, cannon were booming salutes, and bands discoursing sweet music. At an early hour the people commenced assembling at the Court House, and a large bonfire was set at the intersection of Main and Fourth streets. A meeting was speedily arranged in the Court House, and speeches appropriate to the occasion were made by Judge Boreman, Hon. M. J. Payne, M. T. Graham, Esq., Captain Johnson and others. All the speakers breathed high exultations over the changed condition of Missouri. It was felt that a new era had dawned upon the State, and a new destiny opened before her.
After the speaking had been prolonged until about half past eight, a recess was taken for the purpose of going out to meet Gen. Curtis, Senator Lane, and other distinguished guests who had come to mingle their rejoicings with ours over the downfall of slavery,—the great common enemy. And now appeared new actors upon the scene. The colored people of the city, rejoicing in their new-found freedom, had organized a large procession, and with music and banners and transparencies and mottoes paraded the street, singing the great American hymn of freedom—the John Brown Song. Truly the soul of old John is marching on, and his sublime spirit now dominates the land.
The procession marched down Main street, and along the levee, until Gen. Curtis, Lane, &c., were met, and in company with an escort from the military of the Post escorted them to the Court House. An immense crowd had now assembled, not a tithe of which could be accommodated in the building, the dense mass blocking up the space and street in front. Gen. Curtis made a speech befitting the patriot soldier and statesman. He reviewed his own military career in this State, and the efforts he had ever made toward the grand consummation of freedom for the State.
Gen. Curtis is popular with the loyal people of Missouri, and is likely to continue so.
Gen. Lane spoke next. It was just the occasion for the display of the “Grim Chieftain’s” most marked and successful talents as a stump orator. For three-quarters of an hour he kept the vast audience in a rapture of enthusiasm. He told them he was their representative, and that Kansas City was a part of his common constituency. He paid the most flattering encomiums to the importance of the town in a commercial point of view, and said that not a nail could be driven in Kansas City without its benefiting all Kansas. He reminded them of a prophecy he made in the early days of the Kansas struggle, that Missouri would be a free State before Kansas would be made a slave State. He rejoiced with Missouri over her disenthrallment. Altogether, Senator Lane seemed to feel in most admirable spirits, and he certainly succeeded in keeping his audience in a similar frame of mind.
Judge Safford, of the Supreme Court of Kansas, spoke next. His remarks were well timed, and gave great satisfaction to the people.
The evening being well spent, an adjournment was made for supper, which was provided at the Bennett House, and at the Gillis House. Here toasts and speeches again took up their sway, and to crown all a grand dance extended into the “wee small hours” of the night. Thus did Kansas City celebrate the abolition of slavery in Missouri.—Journal of Com.

KANSAS SENDS GREETING TO MISSOURI.
The following resolutions have been unanimously adopted by the Kansas Legislature, concerning the abolition of slavery in Missouri. They speak the true spirit of sympathy and Union which we trust will hereafter characterize the people of both States.
1. Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of Kansas, the Senate concurring therein, that the State of Kansas to the State of Missouri sends greeting, congratulating her for her magnanimity and patriotism. The present generation will reward, and future generations will bless you; the nation will “rejoice, and your people will be glad,” that unrequited labor is not known within your borders. No more will there be cause of variance between us! Nature has made us the same in interests, and we, under the blessings of Heaven, have made ourselves alike free. Brave Missouri! Kansas feels proud of you—Kansas rejoices with you; and while we drop a tear for the noble dead who have fallen in the stern conflict for constitutional and human freedom in your midst, we will look forward to a future radiant with hope;” your country shall be our country, and your God our God.”
2. The Governor of Kansas be requested to forward a copy of these resolutions to the Governor of Missouri.—Journal of the Times.

SPEECH OF THE PRESIDENT.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2d. In response to a serenade last night, President Lincoln said he supposed the passage through Congress of the Constitutional Amendment for abolishing slavery throughout the United States was the occasion to which he was indebted for the honor of this call. (Applause.) The occasion was one of congratulation to the country, and to the whole world. But there is a task yet before us, to go forward and consummate by the votes of the States, that which Congress so nobly began yesterday. (Applause, and cries they will do it.) He had the honor to inform those present that Illinois had already to-day done the work. Maryland was about half through, but he felt proud that Illinois was a little ahead. He thought this measure was a very fitting, if not an indispensable adjunct to the winding up of the present difficulty. (Applause.)
He wished the Union of all the States perfected, and so effected to remove all causes of disturbance in the future; and to obtain this end it was necessary that the original disturbing cause should, if possible, be rooted out. He thought all would bear him witness that he had never shrunk from doing all that he could to eradicate slavery, by issuing an emancipation proclamation. (Applause.) But that proclamation falls far short of what the amendment will be when fully consummated.
A question might be raised whether the proclamation was legally valid. It might be said, that it only freed those who came in our lines, and that it was inoperative as to those who did not give themselves up; or that it would have no effect upon children of slaves born hereafter. In fact, it would be urged that it did not meet the evil; but this amendment is a King’s cure for all evils. (Applause.) It winds the whole thing up. He would repeat, that it was the fitting, if not indispensable adjunct to the consummation of the great game we are playing. He could not but congratulate all present, the country, the whole world, and himself, upon this great moral victory.
THE AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION. In accordance with the order of His Excellency Governor Andrew, the bells of the city were rung between the hours of ten and eleven o’clock yesterday forenoon, and a national salute of one hundred guns was fired from the Common, in honor of the signing by President Lincoln of the Constitutional Amendment prohibiting slavery in the United States. The national flag was displayed from the public buildings, and from many places of business and private residences. The chimes on the Arlington street Church rang out the patriotic melodies “The Star Spangled Banner” and the national hymn “America.” From the office of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was suspended a handsome banner, on which was painted the coat of arms of the old State of Virginia, which she adopted in her early days. It represented the Genius of Liberty with her foot planted on the prostrate form of slavery, broken chains lying upon the ground, and the motto (also a part of the Virginia arms.)” “Sic Semper Tyrannis,”—“So be it always to tyrants.”— Daily Advertiser, Feb. 3.

RATIFICATION OF THE AMENDMENT.
Both branches of the Massachusetts Legislature Friday afternoon unanimously passed the bill ratifying the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery.
The Legislatures of Maine and of Illinois have also adopted the amendment, with great unanimity. So also has the Legislature of the Empire State. So will the Legislatures of all the loyal States.
BALTIMORE, Feb. 3, 1865.
The Senate of Maryland to-day passed the Constitutional Amendment, abolishing slavery in concurrence with the action of the House previously reported.
HARRISBURG, Pa., Feb. 3, 1865.
Both branches of the Legislature to-day adopted a bill ratifying the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery.
WHEELING, Va., Feb. 3, 1865.
The Congressional Amendment abolishing slavery in the United States was unanimously ratified by both branches of the West Virginia Legislature to-day.
DESTRUCTIVE FIRE AT SAVANNAH. A disastrous fire occurred in Savannah on the night of Jan. 27th, by which a large amount of property was destroyed, and on the following morning another fire broke out, destroying two entire squares. Buildings were torn down to stay the conflagration. The fires were unquestionably the work of rebels, as a keg of powder with the head off was placed near the arsenal, the latter containing 30 tons of powder.
<c06>
COLORED MEN’S RIGHTS OF TRAVEL. The following is the bill introduced into the United States Senate on Saturday by Mr. Wilson:
“Be it enacted, &c., That no person shall be excluded from travel upon any railroad or navigable waters of the United States on account of color, or by reason of any State law or municipal ordinance, or of any rule, regulation or usage of any corporation, company or person whatsoever; and colored passengers shall be subject and amenable to the same laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and usages as all white passengers; and any corporation, company, or person, offending against the provisions of this act shall, upon conviction in any court of the United States, be punished by a fine not less than $500, or by imprisonment not less than six months; provided that nothing here in contained shall interfere with any executive order made under the law of the United States.”
In Weymouth, on Thursday last week, an explosion took place in the pyrotechnic manufactory of S. E. Hunt, by which three young women were killed and one badly injured. Two of the deceased were daughters of Isaac Binney, and the other a daughter of Samuel Phillips.

JUBILEE MEETING OF THE COLORED CITIZENS OF BOSTON!
AT TREMONT TEMPLE 
A meeting will be held at Tremont Temple, Boston, on MONDAY EVENING, Feb. 13, by the colored citizens of Boston, and those who are friendly to the celebration of the passage by Congress of the Amendment to the Constitution abolishing Slavery forever. Addresses will be delivered by Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, George Thompson of England, John S. Rock, Wm. Wells Brown and others. The chair will be taken at half-past 7 o’clock, precisely. Admission 15 cents. The proceeds above the expenses to go to the Freedmen.
MRS. FRANCES ELLEN HARPER, of Maryland, the gifted colored oratress, who has charmed thousands by her eloquence, will speak in FRATERNITY HALL, 554 Washington street, on Sunday evening next, at half past 7 o’clock, upon topics suggested by the state of the country.
A collection will be taken at the close of the services. Give her a full house, and a generous contribution!

THIRD EDITION.
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready.
 In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS, it contains: 
United States Government, Ministers, &c.
Senators and Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIXth Congress, so far as chosen.
Laws passed at the last Session of Congress.
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago.)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born People.
Election Return, for President, Governors, Congressmen, &c., in 1864, compared with the Presidential Vote in 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures meet, Time of State Elections.
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1854, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage, &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation, at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work, being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—ly

Ayer’s <illegible>Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
So wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is care fully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an alterative medicines to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass. and sold by all druggists.
Jan. 6. 2m

CARPENTER’S
Great National Picture
THE
Emancipation Proclamation
BEFORE THE CABINET.
PAINTED on canvass, measuring 14 1-2 by 9 feet, and containing full-length life-size Portraits of President LINCOLN, Secretaries SEWARD, CHASE, STANTON, WELLS, SMITH, Postmaster General BLAIR, and Attorney-General BATES, together with a faithful representation of the
Old Cabinet Council Chamber in the White House.
NOW ON EXHIBITION AT
WILLIAMS & <illegible>
234 WASHINGTON STREET.
Boston, Jan. 25.

WANTED, 
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; one who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no use of intoxicating drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such an one may have a good situation by corresponding with THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, Mass., Jan. 4. 3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO MY DEAD MOTHER.
BY KATT CARLISLE.
Mother! O, mother! when sad thoughts have pressed
Their weight of passionate anguish on the breast,
How reach the arxs out wildly, with a prayer,
To clasp thee once, and find but empty air!
Mother, I’ve missed thee in the sad, sad years
Of orphaned childhood, doomed to early tears,
When stranger hands fell heavy on the head
Where thy dear hands in tenderness were laid;
But with each changing moon of passing years,
More deep, more sorrowful my loss appears:
In these sad years of early womanhood,
I miss thee more than e'er my childhood could;
When those I love far more than heart can guess
Blush at my faults and deep unworthiness,
I think if God had spared thy teachings mild,
To thy poor wayward, wild and passionate child,
Blest with thy guiding hand, thy gentle tone,
Both fair and lovable I might have grown.
Well I recall those memories, sadly sweet,
Of days when I eatcat listening at thy feet
The holy hymns that lulled my cradle sleep;
The songs whose plaintive music made me weep:—
For all thy dearest songs were wildly sad,
And even thy smiles a pensive sadness had;
And the sweet tales that charmed my childish ears
Were often those that filled my eyes with tears;
Yet some were glad, and all were made t’ impart
Some pure and noble lessons to my heart:
“Androcles, or, the Lion and the Slave,”
The poet’s mournful story, “Gelert’s Grave,"
That simple, but immortal English tale
That makes so many small round cheeks grow pale?
So many child-hearts feel that God is good,
And love the robin: “Children in the Wood.”
Or how Judean shepherds visited
The Heavenly Babe in manger-cradle laid,
Who for all children’s sakes sweet pattern lent,
And childhood’s years in meek obedience spent.
Such stories, safely stored in memory,
With simple prayers that bowed my infant knee,
Are closely blent with every thought of thee
And I remember, one dark, chilly day,
Leaving our old home for one far away,
Thy mind was filled with cloudy fears, that when
We reached that home our eyes had never seen,
‘T would be so drear and lonely we would turn,
With homesick eyes, the brighter past to mourn;
Till a rich crimson damask rose was brought,
By friendly hands, from that new, far-off cot;
When straight thy heart was reconciled, for flow'rs
Were the dear solace of thy saddest hours.
And, oh! that home, whence since thy spirit passed—
On whose bright scenes thy dear eyes lingered last—
Though far the lowliest home that blessed our eyes,
For beauty, ‘twas a very Paradise!
The fragrant climbing rose did overgrow
Thy chamber wall and trellised portico;
The ivy's beauteous gloom of foliage swept
Over one wall; the honeysuckle crept,
With its red berries, or its clust’ring bloom,
Above one window of that lowly home;
And from one sunny hill anear us, we
Caught silver glimpses of the far-off sea.
That sea!—in this thy child resembles thee,
Her soul thrills to the glory of the sea!—
That sea! its broad blue waves now roll between
Thy child's sad eyes and that remembered scene!—
And, oh! forgive me ! On this Western strand
My heart has learned to love this stranger land!
I miss our flowers;—our primrose pale and sweet,
Our delicate hair bell quivering at my feet,
Nor purple heath, nor yellow furze, appear,
And even our own wild daisy blooms not here;
Yet where strange flow'rs their tinted 'broidery spread,
Our fair blue violet lifts its timid head;
Our rose is here, in the same beauty drest,
And pale queen-lily that I loved the best.
But dearer far than violets e'er may be,
Are the blue eyes that kindly looked on me;
Purer than lilies are the hands that broad
Have scattered brightness o'er my shadowy road.
And one sweet friend, more dear than all the rest,
And, since my mother, kindest, truest, best;
Who stooped, in all her peerless loveliness,
To lift me from despair to happiness,
So high above me, my soul's aim grew high
With reaching toward he; and my lifted eye
Grew strong with looking upward; and ’t were sweet,
Even to my proud heart, kneeling at her feet.
I gloried in her beauty;—did I meet
A fair, fair woman passing in the street,
I thought within me, "She is very fair—
But, oh! my lovely friend is past compare !
Where is the waving of the gold-brown hair,
The classic moulding of the features fair;
Where the bright changing of the lips and eyes,
Filling you ever with a new surprise?
Where on the forehead doth the brightness shine,
The chrism of Genius, like this friend of mine?"
I sorrowed for her sorrows. Wrongs and woe
Such as few mortals in one life-span know
Had paled the roses of her early May-
Had stolen the gladness of her life away.
Her fair young face, with sorrow's rain bepearled,
She hid full closely from the pitiless world;—
The very sunlight seemed a hateful thing,
Music a discord. Nought below could bring
Comfort or hope. Prone on the earth she lay,
Weeping as she would weep her life away.
Naught but those tear-drops, and the anguished cry
That from her blanch’d lips reached the Throne on high,
Saved her from madness and the maniac's cell.
Father in heaven, who doest all things well,
The woe that sought thee in a wordless prayer,
Or broken words at best, could bring Thee near,
With all th' encircling strength and tenderness
Of thy great Arm, to help her helplessness!

For the Liberator.
O, SING OF LIBERETY!
A PARODY.
BY R. THAYER.
AIR—“There’ll be no sorrow there.”
I
O, sing of Liberty
For all, both low and high;
When men in chains no more shall be
Obliged to live and die:
There’ll be no sorrow then;
There'll be no sorrow then;
When every heart is filled with love
For all its fellow-men.
II 
Then on our raptured ear
Shall fall, in sweetest strain,-
“No more shall man his brother fear,
Nor wear the galling obain:"
There’ll be no sorrow then, &c.
III.
Then cruel war shall cease,
And peace on earth shall reign,
Our land enjoy a sweet release
From Slavery’s damning stain:
There’ll be no sorrow then, &c.
IV.
Our country then shall be
The pride of all the lands,
When North and South all men we see
Joining fraternal hands:
There’ll be no sorrow then, &c.
V.
The angels then shall sing
As at the Savior’s birth—
“Glad tidings to the world we bring,
Sweet peace to men on earth:”
There’ll be no sorrow then,
There’ll be no sorrow then;
When every heart is filled with love
For all its fellow-men.
Boston, Feb. 1, 1865.
<c02>
Selections.
SPEECH OF GENERAL BUTLER.
We take the following extract from the recent speech of Gen. Butler, delivered in Lowell, Mass., and reported in the Boston Journal:—
I propose, with your leave, to recall to your minds what has happened to the army in the field, and especially what has occurred within the narrower circle where I have endeavored to serve the interests of the country since I left you a year ago November last. Called by the partial kindness of the President to take command of the Department of Virginia and North Carolina, upon reaching Fortress Monroe, and looking about to see what duties devolved upon me, I found there, in the first place, demanding immediate attention, eighty thousand freedmen, women and children, who had escaped from slavery, and thrown themselves as wards upon the guardianship of the United States. There was no departmental organization for their care, maintenance, protection and education.
My first duty, then, upon assuming command, in the absence of active military operation, seemed to be toward the helpless beings thus cast upon our hands. I knew what you would have said ought to be done under the circumstances, and I did as I a thought you would have done. I established system, order and organization of labor, so that the freed-man who would work could work; and those who would not work might find means whereby they should work; and so that every freedman, woman and child should have what, thank God, we always have bad in Massachusetts for all, food and raiment and protection from the inclemency of the weather. (Applause.) Aided by your fellow -citizens, Capt. Wilder, Capt. Brown and Capt. James, I applied myself to this work, and presently order and industry arose out of the chaos in the affairs of the freed-men in North Carolina and Virginia. The organization of those affairs was carried on still further under the charge of Lieut. Col. Kinsman, and has since been continued under the superintendence of your townsman, Major Carney. We have, as the result of one year's work in that Department, five thousand men brought into the army of the United States without bounty; and how many more with bounty I do not know, because they were credited to the several States in whose regiments they enlisted, and not to the United States. By the labors of this year we have demonstrated that the former slave population of the South can be self-supporting, even without a large proportion of the able-bodied men. We saved from the government rations alone, which were dealt out to them, one hundred thousand dollars. And all this in two Districts, having many large losses in the negro affairs of North Carolina, because of the disturbance of labor from the yellow fever, the fall of Plymouth, and the 'evacuation of Washington in April last, by the order of the Lieutenant General. Within the same space of time we have succeeded in demonstrating that these negroes are capable of being educated. Aided by the self-sacrificing labors of benevolent teachers from the North, hundreds and thousands of children have been taught to read, and adults too, who never read before. And thus the negro is being fitted for that new state of liberty and citizenship to which he has been raised. Such are some of the results of this war. (Applause.)
The next matter in order of time to which my attention was called was the exchange of prisoners, a subject which interests every man, woman and child who has a brother, son, husband or father in the army. That also was placed in my hands by the partiality of the President. I found the former commissioner of exchange of the United States, and the agent acting in behalf of the Confederate States, contending upon questions as to how the accounts in regard to the exchange of prisoners should be kept, whether the United States had received a few more or less than the Confederate States, or the contrary, and a state of embittered feeling had arisen between them, so that exchanges had been suspended I therefore tried the experiment to see if the Confederates would return man for man, they giving us as many soldiers as we gave to them. This was done; and laying all other questions aside, a special exchange went on. Some time in March last, Mr. Ould, the Confederate agent of exchange, came to Fortress Monroe, and there, after a full discussion of all matters of difference, we came to a just and equitable understanding, arranging the adjustment of numbers delivered, paroled and exchanged on all disputed points but one, and that related to the exchange of negro soldiers. The Confederate agent persisted that negroes heretofore in bondage, when captured, should be treated as slaves, and set at work as slaves under their masters. This I could not permit. Whoever had worn the uniform of the United States as a soldier was entitled to its protection in the fullest sense. Having settled all else, however, I had determined to bring about a system of special exchange until we should receive all the white men held by the rebels, and give them an equal number in exchange, and thus all our white soldiers should be liberated. When the exchange of man for man had given us all our white soldiers in their prisons, there would still remain about fifteen or twenty thousand rebel prisoners in our hands, and only about five hundred negro soldiers in theirs.
Arriving at that point, I proposed to say to the Confederates, we are willing to take these five hundred men, and give you an equal number of your soldiers. It the rebels refused that offer, and still held our negro soldiers in bondage and at labor, I designed to say to them: “If you do not deliver me those men, like other prisoners of war, and if you work those five hundred, I will work your fifteen thousand;" and as Napoleon built the canal of Languedoc with forty thousand Austrian prisoners of war, so will this government build the ship canal we want to connect the Mississippi river with the lakes, by the labor of the rebel prisoners in our hands. My word for it, if that stand had been taken, we should never had built much canal, because, when afterward the rebels set some of my negro soldiers at work on the fortifications, and I put an equal number of Virginia Reserves at work in Dutch Gap in retaliation, the negroes were instantly taken out of the trenches, and treated as prisoners of war.
I reported the points of agreement between myself and the rebel agent to the Secretary of War, and asked for power to adjust the other questions of difference so as to have the question of enslaving negro soldiers stand alone to be dealt with by itself, and that the whole power of the United States should be exerted to do justice to those who had fought the battles of the country, and been captured in its service.
The whole subject was referred by the Secretary of War to the Lieutenant General commanding, who telegraphed me on the fourteenth of April, 1864, in substance: “Break off all negotiations on the subject of exchange till further orders.” And therefore all negotiations were broken off, save that a special exchange of sick and wounded on either side went on.
On the 20th of April I received another telegram from Gen Grant, ordering not another man to be given to the rebels. To that I answered, on the same day: “Lieut. Gen. Grant’s instructions shall be implicitly obeyed. I assume that you do not mean to stop the special exchange of the sick and wounded now going on." To this I received a reply in substance: "Do not give the rebels a single able-bodied man." From that hour, so long as I remained in the Department, exchanges of prisoners stopped under that order, because I could not give the rebels any of their able-bodied soldiers in exchange. By sending the sick and wounded forward, however, some twelve thousand of our suffering soldiers were relieved, being upwards of eight thousand more than we gave the rebels.
In August last, Mr. Ould, finding negotiations were broken off, and that no exchanges were made, wrote to Gen. Hitchcock, the Commissioner at Washington, that the rebels were ready to exchange, man for man, all the prisoners held by them, as I had proposed in December.
Under the instructions of the Lieutenant General, I wrote to Mr. Ould a letter which has been published, saying: “Do you mean all? Do you mean to give up all your action and revoke all your laws about black men employed as soldiers?" These questions were therein argued, justly, as I think-not diplomatically, but obtrusively and demonstratively, not for the purpose of furthering exchange of prisoners, but for the purpose of preventing and stopping the exchange, and furnishing a ground on which we could fairly stand.
I am now, at liberty to state these facts, 'because they appear in the correspondence on the subject of exchange, now on the public files of Congress, furnished by the War Department upon resolution. I
<c03>
am not at liberty to state my opinion as to the correctness and propriety of this course of action of the Lieutenant General in relation to exchanges, because, as it is not proper to utter a word of condemnation of any act of my superiors, I may not even applaud where I think them right, lest not applauding in other instances such act as I may mention would imply censure. I only desire that the responsibility of stopping exchanges of prisoners, be it wise or unwise, should rest upon the Lieutenant General commanding, and not upon me. I have carried the weight of so grave a matter for nine months, and now propose, as the facts are laid before Congress and the country; not to carry any longer any more of it than belongs to me.

IN HUMAN TREATMENT OF FEDERAL SOLDIERS IN REBEL PRISONS.
TESTIMONY OF A. D. RICHARDSON.
We have received, at too late an hour for publication entire, a printed slip of a telegraphic dispatch from Washington, giving the testimony before the Committee on the Conduct of the War, of Albert D. Richardson, one of the Tribune correspondents, captured May 6, 1863. For several months he was confined at Salisbury, N. C. Of this prison he says: —
Very frequently, one or more divisions of a thousand men would receive no rations for twenty-four hours; sometimes they were without a morsel of food for forty-eight hours. The few who had money would pay from five to twenty dollars rebel currency for a little loaf of bread. Most prisoners traded the buttons from their blouses for food. Many, though the weather was very inclement and snows frequent, sold coats from their backs and shoes from their feet. I was assured on authority entirely trustworthy, that the great Commissary warehouse near the prison was filled with provisions; that the Commissary found it difficult to obtain storage for his flour and meal; that when a subordinate asked the Post Commandant, Major John H. Gee, “Shall I give the prisoners full rations?” he replied, “No, God damn them—give them quarter rations." I know, from personal observation, that corn and pork are very abundant in the region about Salisbury.
For several weeks the prisoners had no shelter whatever. They were all thinly clad; thousands were barefooted; not one in twenty had either overcoat or blanket; many hundreds were without shirts, and hundreds more without blouses. At last, one Sibley tent and one "A" tent were furnished to each squad of one hundred. With the closest crowding, these sheltered about one-half the prisoners. The rest burrowed in the ground, crept under buildings, or shivered through the nights in the open air, upon the frozen, muddy or snowy soil. If the rebels at the time of their capture had not stolen their shelter tents, blankets, clothing and money, they would have suffered little from cold. 
If the prison authorities had permitted a few hundred of them, either upon parole or under guard, to cut logs within two miles of the garrison, the prisoners would have gladly built comfortable and ample barracks in one week. But the commandant would never, in a densely wooded region, with the cars which brought it passing by the wall of the prison, even furnish half the fuel which was needed.
The hospitals were in a horrible condition. By crowding the patients thick as they could be upon the floor, they would contain six hundred inmates. They were always full to overflowing, with thousands seeking admission in vain. In the two largest wards, containing jointly about two hundred and fifty patients, there was no fire whatever,—the others had small fireplaces, but were always cold.
One ward, which held forty patients, was comparatively well furnished. In the other eight, the sick and dying men lay upon the cold, and usually naked floor; for the scanty straw furnished us soon became too filthy and full of vermin for use. The authorities never supplied a single blanket, or quilt, or pillow, or bed, for those eight wards; we could not procure even brooms to keep them clean, or cold water to wash the faces of the inmates. Pneumonia, catarrh and diarrhoea were the prevailing diseases; but they were directly the result of hunger and exposure. More than half who entered the hospitals died in a very few days. The deceased, always without coffins, were loaded into a dead cart, piled upon each other like logs of wood, and so driven out, to be thrown into a trench, and covered with earth.
On November 25, many of the prisoners had been without food for forty-eight hours. Desperate from hunger, without any matured plan, a few of them said: “We may as well die one way as another; let us break out of this horrid place.” Some of them wrested the guns from a relief of fifteen rebel soldiers just entering the yard, killing two who resisted, and wounding five or six. Others attempted to open the fence, but they had neither adequate tools nor concert of action. Before they could effect a breach, every gun in the garrison was turned upon them; two field pieces opened with grape and canister, and they dispersed to their quarters.
Five minutes from the beginning the attempt was quelled, and hardly a prisoner to be seen in the yard. My own quarters were a hundred and fifty yards from the scene of the insurrection; in our vicinity there had been no participation at all in it; and yet, for twenty minutes after it was ended, the guards upon the fence on each side of us, with deliberate aim, fired into the tents upon helpless and innocent men. They killed, in all, fifteen and wounded sixty, not one-tenth of whom had taken part in the attempt; many of them were ignorant of it until they heard the guns.
Deliberate, cold-blooded murders of peaceable men, where there was no pretence that they were breaking any prison regulation, were very frequent. On October l6th, Lawton Davis, of One hundred and fifty-eighth New York infantry, was thus shot dead by a guard, who, the day before, had been openly swearing that he would "kill some damned Yankee yet." Nov. 6th, Luther Conrad, of 45th Pennsylvania infantry—a delirious patient, from one of the hospitals—was similarly murdered. November 3d, a chimney in one of the hospitals fell down, crushing several men under it. Orders were immediately given to the guard to let no one approach the building, on the pretext that there might be another insurrection.
Two patients from that hospital had not heard the order, and were returning to their quarters, when I saw a sentinel on the fence, within twenty feet of them, without challenging them, raise his piece and fire, killing one and wounding the other. Major Gee, at the time, was standing immediately beside the sentinel, so he must have acted under his direct orders. Dec. 16, Moses Smith of Seventh Maryland (colored) infantry, while standing beside my quarters searching for scraps of food from the sweepings of the cookhouse, was shot through the head. There were very many similar murders. I never knew any pretence even made of investigating or punishing them. Our lives were never safe for a moment. Any sentinel, at any hour of the day or night, could. deliberately shoot down any prisoner or into any group of prisoners, black or white, and he would not even be taken off his post for it.
Nearly every week an officer came into the prison to recruit for the rebel army. Sometimes he offered bounties; always he promised good clothing and abundant food. Between twelve hundred and eighteen hundred of our men enlisted in two months. I was repeatedly asked by prisoners, sometimes with tears in their eyes, “What shall I do? I don't want to starve to death. I am growing weaker daily; if I stay here, I shall follow my comrades to the hospital and the dead house. If I enlist, I may live until I can escape.”
I had charge of clothing left by the dead, and reissued it to the living. I distributed articles of clothing to more than two thousand prisoners; but when I escaped, there were fully five hundred without a shoe or a stocking; and more yet, with no garment above the waist, except one blouse or one shirt. Men came to me frequently, upon whom the rebels, when they captured them, had left nothing whatever except a light cotton shirt and a pair of light, ragged cotton pantaloons.
The books of all the' hospitals were kept, and the daily consolidated reports made up, under my supervision. During the two months before Oct. 18 and Dec. 18, the average number of prisoners was about 7,500. The deaths for that period were fully 1,500, or twenty per cent, of the whole. I brought away the names of more than twelve hundred of the dead; some of the remainder were never reported; the others I could not procure on the day of my escape without exciting suspicion.
As the men grew more and more debilitated, the deaths increased. I left about 6,500 in the garrison, Dec. 18, and they were then dying at the average rate of twenty-eight a day, or thirteen per cent, a month.
The simple truth is, that the rebel authorities are
<c04>
murdering our soldiers at Salisbury, by cold and hunger, while they might easily supply them with ample food and fuel. They are dying thus systematically, and I believe are killed intentionally for the purpose of either forcing our government to an exchange, or forcing our prisoners into the rebel army.
Junius Henri Browne, another army correspondent of the New York Tribune, confined in the same prison, substantially confirms the above. In conclusion he says:
The prison limits at Salisbury revealed a scene of wretchedness, squalor, despair and suffering such as I—accustomed as I am to army life and the horrors of military hospitals and battle-fields—had never before witnessed. The prison authorities—especially after the massacre attending the attempted outbreak of Nov. 25th—appeared not only indifferent to the miserable condition of the men, but to be actuated by a brutality and malignity towards them that I could not reconcile with my idea of human nature. They permitted the guards to shoot prisoners whenever they pleased, without the least pretext or explanation, and no man’s life was safe for a day or an hour. The air was full of pain and pestilence; and all the horrors of imagined bells seemed realized in that most wretched place, of which I shall never think without a shudder, and a lessened faith in the possibilities of humanity.

ANDREW JOHNSON.
There is a class of men who rise in the Church or State by the force of their own characters, and become representative. They gain their position by means of industry, force of character and moral qualities. In this country we have very many examples, and they quicken the activity of every young man who is filled with an honorable ambition. They should stimulate the young, and incite them to make a faithful use of their opportunities for improvement.
Recently, the Vice President elect made a speech at Nashville, Tenn., in which he referred to his long life-struggle with the aristocratic tendencies of his State. He expressed the deepest gratitude that he had lived to see an “insolent, insincere, ignorant, unfeeling, hypocritical, nefarious, diabolical slave aristocracy” tumble to the ground. He spoke for the poor white no less than for the freedman, and said by the present issue of events more white than black men were emancipated. The new times would make manhood the test of merit. As this stalwart man stood up in that convention of five hundred delegates who had made themselves memorable for their action in behalf of liberty, his soul swelled with the loftiest sentiments, and he swayed them by his earnest and powerful eloquence.
As we gaze on his picture, we are struck with the contrast which his biography affords. How great is the stride from the tailor boy who could not read a letter, to the Vice President of the United States! Yet this is the fact. Only a few years ago, the apprentice, after his ten or twelve hours’ work was done, could be seen poring over his spelling -book, and putting syllables together. The time that so many young men waste in idle and frivolous pursuits he spent in learning how to read. Going across the mountains from North Carolina, he settled in Tennessee, worked at his trade, and soon married a wife who taught him how to write. Thus furnished, he made rapid strides in knowledge, until the tailor boy, who could not read a letter, becomes chief magistrate of the State, an eloquent debater in the United States Senate, and vice-president.
There is something grand in this picture. It is a triumphant illustration of our institutions. In no nation in the world do we see so many examples of this kind. Here is a high official, with large and comprehensive views, lofty patriotism and ardent love of liberty, swaying men by his eloquent speech, and instructing them by his prescient statesmanship and yet he never saw the inside of a school-house in his boyhood. What a tribute to the innate force of his character! It was the battle with difficulties that made him strong, energetic, self-reliant,. Referring to his efforts in behalf of a better state of society in Tennessee, before the war, he said: “Because, many years ago, I dared to speak of these things, I was denounced as an agrarian and demagogue, who appealed to the prejudices of the people. Thank God, I have lived to see the day when the people of my State have declared themselves free. I must now urge you to redouble your efforts to carry out your work when you go hence.”
Again, in speaking of the future, he adds: “This government was created to live in perpetuity. It was sent on a great mission to the nations of the earth, which is not yet fulfilled. It is destined to pass through great trials to give evidence that it is fit for its work. Its Constitution can be modified, reformed, and adapted to the progress of the people. There is no provision for its destruction, but for its perfection. These are changing times and a changing world, and mind and matter are undergoing continual changes. Two things only change not: human reason and the sovereignty of the people—the light of intellect and the principles of tree government. These are the great beacons to mark out the road along which the nations of the earth must travel.
In the midst of the darkness which has been resting on the land for three years, a darkness deeper than that of the dark ages—from you, sitting in the midst of carnage and of death, has gone forth a light to illuminate the world, and teach mankind that you can be free. I feel that God smiles on what you have done, and that it meets the approbation of the hosts that surround Him. O, how it contrasts with the shrieks, and cries, and wailings which the institution of slavery has brought on the land!
Look along the battlefields of Tennessee—at the new made graves. Witness your countrymen perishing in battle; see even the Goddess of Liberty, struggling through desolation, carnage, and blood, and almost driven from our borders! Might I not say with the poet:
“O, bloodiest picture in the book of time!” 
And yet, out of all this gloomy scene beams a light to illuminate the world in future years. As your fellow-citizen, who expects in some of your valleys to deposit his bones, I thank you again for the noble work which you have done."
This is a glorious illustration of what force of character will accomplish. Here is a man, a peer among the foremost statesmen of his times, who is self-made. With a courage that is a stranger to fear, with a patriotism that has the fervor of a blazing passion, with a grasp of principles and commanding oratory that stirs and instructs crowds, he is a standing memorial of what zeal, devotion, will and native endowments can accomplish. And his career should inspire every young man with high re-resolves for improvement.—Boston Christian Register.

GEN. SHERMAN ON THE NEGROES.
THE SOUTH CAROLINA SEA ISLANDS SET APART FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF THE CONTRABANDS.
HDQRS. MILITARY DIVISION OF THE MISS., In the Field, Savannah, Ga. Jan. 16, 1865}. SPECIAL ORDERS, NO. 15.—I. The islands from Charleston south, the abandoned rice-fields along the rivers for thirty miles back from the sea, and the country bordering the St. John River, Florida, are reserved and set apart for the settlement of the negroes now made free by the acts of war and the proclamation of the President Of United States. 
II. At Beaufort, Hilton Head, Savannah, Fernandina, St. Augustine and Jacksonville, the blacks may remain in their chosen or accustomed vocations; but on the islands and in the settlements hereafter to be established, no white person whatever, unless military officers and soldiers detailed for duty, will be permitted to reside, and the sole and exclusive management of affairs will be left to the freed people themselves, subject only to the United States military authority and the acts of Congress. By the laws of war and orders of the President of the United States, the negro is free, and must be dealt with as such. He cannot be subjected to conscription or forced military service, save by the written orders of the highest military authority of the department, under such regulations as the President or Congress may prescribe. Domestic servants, blacksmiths, carpenters and other mechanics will be free to select their own work and residence; but the young and able-bodied negroes must be encouraged to enlist as soldiers in the service of the United States, to contribute their share toward maintaining their own freedom, and securing their rights as citizens of the United States. Negroes so enlisted will be organized into companies, battalions and regiments, under orders of the United States military authorities, and will be paid, fed and clothed, according to law. The bounties paid on enlistment 
<c05>
may, with the consent of the recruit, go to assist his family and settlement in procuring agricultural implements, seed, tools, boats, clothing and other articles necessary for their livelihood.
Whenever three respectable negroes, heads of families, shall desire to settle on land, and shall have selected for that purpose an island or locality clearly defined, within the limits above designated, the Inspector of Settlements and Plantations will himself, or by such subordinate officer as be may appoint, give them a license to settle such island or district, and afford them assistance as he can enable them to establish a peaceable agricultural settlement. The three parties named will subdivide the land, under the supervision of the Inspector, among themselves, and such others as may choose to settle near them, so that each family shall have a plot of not more than forty acres of tillable ground, and when it borders on some water channel, with not more than eight hundred feet front, in the possession of which land the military authorities will afford them protection until such times as they can protect themselves, or until Congress shall regulate their title. The Quartermaster may, on the requisition of the Inspector of Settlements and Plantations, place at the disposal of the Inspector one or more of the captured steamers, to ply between the settlements and one or more of the commercial points heretofore named in orders, to afford the settlers the opportunity to supply their necessary wants and to sell the products of their land and labor.
IV. Whenever a negro has enlisted in the military service of the United States, he may locate his family in any one of the settlements at pleasure, and acquire a homestead and all other rights and privileges of a settler as though present in person. In like manner negroes may settle their families and engage on board the gunboats, or in fishing, or in the navigation of the inland waters, without losing any claim to land or other advantages derived from this system. But no one, unless an actual settler as above defined, or unless absent on Government service, will be entitled to claim any right to land or property in any settlement, by virtue of those orders.
V. In order to carry out this system of settlement., a general officer will be detailed as Inspector of Settlements and Plantations, whose duty it shall be to visit the settlements, to regulate their police and general management, and who will furnish personally to each head of family, subject to the approval of the President of the United States, a possessory title in writing, giving as near as possible the description of boundaries, and who shall adjust all claims or conflicts that may rise under the same, subject to the like approval, treating such titles altogether as possessory. The same general officer will also be charged with the enlistment and organization of the negro recruits, and protecting their interests while so absent from their settlements, and will be governed by the rules and regulations prescribed by the War Department for such purpose.
VI. Brig. Gen. R. Saxton is hereby appointed Inspector of Settlements and Plantations, and will at once enter on the performance of his duties. No change is intended or desired in the settlement now on Beaufort Islands, nor will any rights to property heretofore acquired be affected thereby.
By order of Maj.-Gen. W. T. SHERMAN.
L. M. Dayton, Major and Assist. Adj.-Gen.

THE NEGRO TROOPS.
Upon the Negro question, the Governor of Wisconsin, in his recent message, says:—
I have not the data at hand to show the actual number that have been taken from the rebels, and placed in our lines by this proclamation, but that the number is large, and in proportion as it is large is beneficial to the government, is beyond question. Another strong reason, in my judgment, why this measure was fraught with great good, may be found in its influence upon foreign nations. There is no disguising the fact, that at the time this proclamation was issued, there was great danger of foreign intervention. Foreign nations, particularly England and France, so far as the aristocratic portions of them are concerned, would gladly see this government weakened by disunion. This they have shown in many ways. There is no question, either, that the great mass of the people of England and France are violently opposed to the institution of African slavery. While, therefore, the jealousy of their governments would naturally lead them to recognize the Southern Confederacy, hoping to weaken us, the great mass of the people of those nations, when they saw this proclamation, and that the perpetuation of African slavery probably depended upon their re cognizing the Confederacy and sustaining the rebellion, their hatred of slavery overcame the jealousy of those Governments, and recognition was withheld. Had this proclamation been withheld, and this issue not presented, the recognition of the Southern Confederacy by foreign powers would have been more than probable. The following extract from a late letter of Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President of the so-called Southern Confederacy, tends strongly to confirm this view of the question. He says: “The silent sympathy of England, France and other European powers, arises entirely from their mania upon the subject of negro slavery. Lincoln had either to witness our recognition abroad, the moral power of which alone he saw would break down the war, or to make it an emancipation war.” 
It has been urged against this measure that the black man would not fight. Said Jackson, at New Orleans, in addressing his negro soldiers, “I expected much from you, for I was not uninformed of those qualities which must render you so formidable to an invading foe.” Again he says, “But you surpassed my hope. I have found in you, united to these qualities, that noble enthusiasm which impels to great deeds.” It is unnecessary, however, to refer to the opinions held of these men, or their deeds in the past, to refute this argument. We have the proof of their courage, valor and endurance, now before our eyes. The present contest furnishes ample proof, if any more were needed upon this point.
It has also been urged that it was dishonorable for the white soldiers to fight beside the black man. I need only to say in reply to this, that Washington, Jackson, Grant and many other great and good men fought beside them, and did not consider themselves dishonored. Thousands of our noble soldiers are fighting beside them today with honor; and I strongly doubt whether the man who fails to respond to his country's call for fear of being dishonored by fighting beside the black man—for fear of being dishonored by seeing a patriotic black man offer up his life on the altar of liberty—will not be found wanting in the day of trial, and fail to serve his country under any circumstances.

COLORED TROOPS AND COLORED GENERALS.
Brigedier General Wm. Birney has addressed a letter to Dr. John H. Rapier, A. A. Surg., U. S. A., from which we take the following extracts. The anti slavery character of the writer, which, hereditary in the blood, has exhibited itself in manifold ways since the war began, and in none more conspicuously than in his connection with our colored volunteers, entitles his judgment to great weight in the question at issue:—
“I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 7th inst., requesting me to endorse a petition for permission to raise a number of colored
regiments to be officered exclusively by colored men.
Although specious arguments may be used for it, I sincerely believe your plan to be wrong. Separatism will only deepen and strengthen the guilty prejudice now existing. Men of your color have this as well as the whites; it is mutual. I regard this covert hostility between large classes of men in the same country as a national misfortune. It leads to class legislation, social persecution, and military weakness. The best way to put an end to it is to unite men of different colors in the same grand emotions of patriotism. Let them rally under the same flag, stand in the same ranks, face the same foe, listen to the same hurtling messengers of death, mingle t heir blood in mutual defence and aid lie in the same hospitals, share the same rewards, and, in future and happier days, receive the same honors from a grateful people.
It is surprising how soon black and white soldiers, serving in the same ranks, forget their former bitter prejudice. At Beaufort, Hilton Head, and in Florida, all traces of it had disappeared. During the several months of my command of mixed troops at those places, I cannot remember that a single instance of this prejudice was exhibited among the soldiers. When men have to rely on each other in a fight, and find they can do so safely, they are soon fast friends.
The best thing is to put the black and white men
<c06>
side by side. I have never seen why a white man should go into one regiment and a black man into another. It is time now to ask that a man may enlist in any regiment he pleases, without regard to color. Black and white sailors serve together: why should not soldiers? But if the colors must de separated, let there be a black regiment in each brigade. If our politicians think that is going too far, let us have a black brigade in each division. If that is denied, let us ask for a black division in each corps. The policy of separatism I regard as fatally dangerous. Its tendency is to keep alive a prejudice that every patriot wishes to see buried forever.”

THE LAST BULL-OR BLUNDER 
That very respectable old potentate, His Holiness Pope Pius IXth, has been pleased to take the peculiar condition of this wicked world into his deepest consideration, and has written an Encyclical Letter thereon, for the relief of his own feelings, and the benefit of the souls of the rest of mankind. It is addressed to all the Patriarchs, Primates, Archbishops, and Bishops who are in communion with the Apostolic See; and by those respectable fogies, no doubt, it has been or will be received with great respect, while Protestants will wonder what the old gentleman means by writing in the nineteenth century as if he were of the order of the Hildebrands and Innocents of those long gone days when Papal Bulls were perfect animals, and bore no resemblance to the emasculated beasts that they now are. Power is ever to be respected, and even when badly used there is something commanding about it; so that when a Papal Bull went mad in former days, and gored kings and nobles and peoples, going on the rampage generally, and behaving like a crazy locomotive that has got off the track, what took place being the aberrations, had a prodigious effect on men’s minds and doings. It was no joke of power when there could be no marriages in a given country, because an old bachelor in Rome had excommunicated that country, and placed it under an interdict; and no burials, because the same ancient personage had ordered the clergy to mind what they were about, and deny even the gratis repose of the grave to the subjects of some recalcitrant king. When sovereigns, some half a dozen centuries ago, behaved like Napoleon and Victor Emanuel to-day, the Pope had only to come down upon them, and they were speedily used up. Did not innocent III. fix the flint of Philip-Augustus in the matter of Queen Ingelburga and Agnes de Meran, and compel that valorous and politic king to give up the wife he loved, and to take back the wife he hated? Having no wife of his own to be the blessing or plague of his life, as the case may happen to be, naturally the Pope stands up for the first wife, when there is a question between two ladies as to their matrimonial right to a man. If a people were disposed to have a will of their own, they were soon made to know that there was a stronger will than theirs, and had to bend their stiff necks beneath the iron yoke formed for their wearing in the Roman smithy. Witness the Albigenses, whose heresy was washed out in their own blood, and who were worse used by a Roman Pontiff than the Jews were by a Roman General. Monarch or nation, prince or peasant, who then fell out with the Pope, was promptly taught that he had fallen out of the procession of life, and that he was to take the downward road in the fiery car, drawn by dragons. It was given to the Popes? so they said? to bind and to loose, and they did not allow their power over any world to lose any of its force through want of exercise. They kept their arms bright and shining, through constant use; and some of them did literally put their feet on the necks of kings, and caused scourges to be applied to their backs.
But this is a changing world, the fashions of which pass away. Even infallible Popes are as much exposed to the laws of mutability as if they were the commonest of mortals. The time came when the temporality got the better of the spirituality; and when Napoleon got rid of a wife who was almost old enough to be his mother, and took a second wife who was quite young enough to be his daughter, he no more thought of troubling the Pope about the business than Brigham Young thinks of troubling him when he takes an eighty-ninth wife to his bed, board, and bosom. Indeed, the Emperor had the Pope snugly under lock and key at the very time he was voting himself a divorce, and the master of the Keys of St. Peter couldn’t use them to let himself out of the house of bondage. In our time, we have seen princes and peoples strip the Pope of his possessions with no more of compunction than was felt by the Earle of Pembroke when he seized the Abbey of Wilton, and said to the remonstrating Abbess, “Go spin, you jade,? go spin!” We cannot blame the Pope for not liking such treatment, necessary as we think it is; and therefore when he remonstrates against being skinned alive, we are not disposed to condemn him bitterly for objecting to the flaying process. Let him scream, screaming being an uncommonly wholesome thing in sufferers from surgical operations. But even screaming should be done with regard to time; and the complaint against this Encyclical Letter is, that it is out of all time, and is set to an ancient and obsolete tune. It belongs to a time that is dead and gone, and the music is as extinct as that of the antediluvians. If the Pope finds any pleasure in writing letters, let him write as many as Junius, or an American in search of the Presidency; but let them be appropriate to the age in which they are written. His Letter of December 8th, 1864, might have been made a very useful production, had Pio Nino chosen to set his pen in rest against some of the real evils that affect the world. But what is to be said of a Papal Letter that is devoted to denunciations of “the monstrous opinions which particularly predominate in the present day”? How does His Holiness purpose putting down opinions that not only predominate, but “particularly predominate”? He admits, with charming candor, that all his previous attempts to put an end to the particular predomination of “monstrous opinions” have proved failures, though he has the sword of St. Peter in his hand, and no one knows how many legions of saints to back him. In his past failures the infallible man may read the precise measure of his future success, let him kick against the pricks as savagely as he may see fit to kick. The men of this age are not to be stayed on their course by the drivel of a Pope in his dotage, whose harmless rage has been excited by the progress of the Italians to unity, and who fears that he may soon be driven out of Rome, and with far worse prospects of getting back than he had when last he went to Gaeta-a place now shut against him. The moving cause of Papal wrath is that Franco-Italian Italian Treaty which is steadily setting the new kingdom of Italy toward Italy’s old capital. Were it not for the threatened loss of all that he has not already lost, the Pope would leave the world to take care of itself, and would not write like a man who was ignorant of the history of the last four hundred years. But the tramp of the Italian people is too much for his nerves, and he gets into hysterical wrath over the contemplation of a change that even he must see is inevitable. His Infallibility is, perhaps, to be partially excused for his folly by his age; but why didn’t his advisers and guardians make him behave better? They are accountable for the display of senility which is made in the Encyclical Letter, which is as foolish an outcry as that which John Bunyan puts in the mouth of the Pope who sought to frighten Christian when he was pilgrimizing to the Holy City.
What the Pope would do if he could is evident from this passage in his Letter:- “There are many who do not hesitate to affirm, ‘that the best condition of society is that in which the power of the laity is not compelled to inflict the penalties of law upon violators of the Catholic religion, unless required by considerations of public safety.’” This “idea of social government,” says the Pope is “absolutely false;” whence the deduction is legitimate, that if His Holiness could have his way, fagots would look up, stakes would be as high as steaks, and there would be as plentiful a supply of roast heretic as there now is a plentiful lack of roast beef. Pius IX. endorses the denunciation of his predecessor, Gregory XVI., against liberty of conscience and of worship, assertion of which that Pope characterized as “delirium;” and he himself calls it an “erroneous opinion, very hurtful to the safety of the Catholic Church,” which, no doubt, it is, though not erroneous, and anything but the result of “delirium.” We do not wonder that Napoleon III. is angry with the Pope for having put forth an Encyclical Letter like this, for it is a disgrace to the age; and some of the disgrace necessarily belongs to the French Emperor, whose soldiers are employed in keeping the infallible writer in safety at home, where but for their presence he could not remain another week, so weak is his temporal condition-Boston Traveller.
