THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debt of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all the Mankind.
J.B YERINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 21. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 24, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1587.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
NORTHERN EDITORS AND PREACHERS.
A reason sometimes assigned for the apparent determination of the Northern people to bring upon the whole country all the horrors of civil war by an armed invasion of the Southern States is, that it is necessary to prove to the South that the men of the North are brave men. But, in truth, no such necessity exists: for, that the men of the North are, in general. brave men, we, of the Southern States, believe almost as devoutly as we believe that Bennett, of the New York Herald, philosopher Greeley, the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, General James Watson Webb, and the drunken beast now stalled in the Presidential mansion at Washington, are unmitigated am! immedicable cowards. It, however, the men of the North are resolved to give us that very superfluous proof of their manhood, we can only say to them. Come on! At the same time, we earnestly advise the five worthies above named and specified, by all means to stay at home; for, although their undoubted privilege, as the most helpless and pitiable of non-combatants, would never be violated by any Southern soldiers, any more than if they came equipped in the petticoat for which nature originally designed them, and from which she ultimately exempted them by a freak past the wit of man to account for, yet we are by no means prepared to guarantee that our slaves might not take a fancy to hang them as Abolitionists and incendiaries. By all means, then, we repeat, let them stay at home, and tickle the Northern fancy by speeches, sermons and dissertations demonstrating the superior breadth of Northern courage as compared with Southern.
There is a potent and sustaining consolation in the fact that the military status of the South is far superior to that of the North-whose mercenary legions of pickpockets, burglars, rowdies, tape measurers and bumpkins are now attempting to organize themselves into an army. There is also a source of abiding satisfaction in the truth, which ages of experience have established, that no free people can be subdued, were the invaders ten-fold the stronger in numbers and in means.-Richmond Whig.
To ARMS! To ARMS! Unless we win the battle, Virginia is really quite ruined. The people who will seize on her are relentless, coarse, greedy and bloody. They will pillage our houses, violate our women, insult and murder defenceless citizens. The truest patriots of the State, who have not had the good sense, to get themselves bravely killed in some battle, will die by the hands of lawless and irresponsible ruffians, or on the gallows after mockery of trial, or drag out a poor and miserable remnant of life in exile. The land called Virginia will remain; but so changed, so utterly revolutionized, inhabited by a population sprung from such ruthless confiscations and proscriptions, that it will be not more recognizable than Italy after its partition between the Goths and the. Vandals. To prevent the imminent wretchedness, the indescribable calamity that hangs over us, there is but one thing to do-and that is, to hurry up the troops to the places of rendezvous, and to concentrate the armies who must save us, if saved we can be. Virginia alone is perfectly able to turn the current of invasion; and she will do it perfectly well, if her force is handled with decision and intelligence. She can meet and beat an army of fifty thousand volunteers with absolute certainty; and that is more than the North can get here before the crisis of the danger has passed.-Richmond Examiner.
THE DRUNKEN MUTINEERS. We would enter into no negotiation now with Lincoln, unless a cannon were planted behind us, prepared to sweep him from the earth, upon the first indication of sweep him This is the flag of truce under whose protection we would trust ourselves. None other would be heeded by Abraham Lincoln.
This same man is engaged now in another fraud. He tells us that the thirty thousand mercenaries that defile the Capital are for its defence-nothing more. Who believes him? Not we. They are designed for offensive operations. They arc intended to menace Virginia, and will make a descent somewhere upon our soil. Very well. Let the drunken mutineers at Washington drive on in their crazy craft. The breakers are ahead, and they must evince more statesmanship than they have yet indicated if they weather the storm that is gathering.-Lynchburg Virginian.
CIVILIZED SAVAGES. The Northern people have gone mad-stark, staring, raving mad. As to New York city, it is nothing better than a vast mad-house In no other way can their extraordinary and unparalleled circumstantiations be explained, in no other way can the supremacy gained by their brutal and bloody instincts over their boasted enlightenment and humanity be excused, or even extenuated.
There is no doubt that the Northern people are at this moment fit representatives of the barbarian hordes which formerly devastated the world. They are furnishing the very best evidences that they are incapable of thorough civilization; that they possess only the outward symbols of modern enlightenment, while they are by nature cruel, bloodthirsty, arrogant and boastful. But there is really very little danger to be feared from them. Civilization no longer stands in dread of barbarism.
One race of savages has already been expelled from the country; but not that it may fall into the hands of another.-New Orleans Delta.
The Memphis Bulletin proposes to steal everything that is owned by non-residents! It will be safer to quote its own words, lest our readers think we have misapprehended them. It says:-
"There is enough real and personal estate in this city, owned by Cincinnatians alone, if sold at auction, to equip for service the five thousand volunteers now under arms in this city. We remember that the stock of our Gas Company is held by Cincinnatians. We do not forget that the stock of our hanks is owned in part in Cincinnati, and the residue in Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. There is not less than twenty millions of railroad, bank and other stocks held by Northern men in this State. Tennessee has issued eighteen millions of time bonds; these are all 'down East,' except, perhaps, one two millions. This city has outstanding and a half million of bonds, many of them in Cincinnati, the balance in the North. This country has issued notes payable in five years, all held, or very nearly all, in the East. Adjacent counties have done the same thing to build railroads. Then the people of this city owe, perhaps, half a million in Cincinnati. The whole amount foots up an incalculable sum, of which, in point of fact, the North has been enabled to rob the South by a tariff system, operating so unjustly upon us, that if we has only paid to the Federal Government the taxes that should have been imposed upon

<c02>
us in accordance with our comparative wealth and numbers, we would have been to-day richer than we are by quite one thousand millions of dollars.
We might be induced to sequester all this indebtedness to the North. The State might appoint a receiver, and make all her citizens, and banks, and corporations pay these comfortable sums of money into the State Treasury. The Legislature is now in session, and may, in a generous spirit, authorize our Board of Aldermen to 'hold and possess' the effects of Cincinnatians in our midst."

GOV. ANDREW AND GEN. B. P. BUTLER.
We wish to call the attention of every reader of the Herald to-day, to the correspondence between the Governor of Massachusetts and B. F. Butler, Massachusetts highest military representative in the war-between the commander-in-chief at home, and the active commander in Maryland-in relation to the suppression of negro insurrections. We have not space to say what we wish to on this topic; but Gen. Butler's answer is to our mind, and its fills our whole heart. We called attention to his action -and to the return of fugitive slaves by Lieut. Slimmer at Fort Pickens, by the commander at Fort Munroe, and by Gov. Sprague-a few days since, as highly commendable. We don't know how it affects others, but we regard with utter abhorrence and loathing the man who, at such a time as this, would incite insurrection or employ negroes to war upon the South; such a man, if he had the power, would reduce one-half of this country to a literal hell, and feel no compunctions of conscience thereat. Whether we should suppress a negro insurrection-that is, stop black heathen from cutting the throats of white Christians, ravishing women, and roasting children in burning houses-is but a different phase of the same question; it cannot be tolerated; nor is it only by a certain school who make philanthropy a profession. Always do such become the most brutal and cruel when they meet a turn of life that gives, them a taste of human blood; one drop of it poisons their whole system, and ever after do they hanker for it, as did Robes Pierre, who was of that class, in the days of the French revolution.
Most nobly does Gen. Butler say, that when it comes to letting loose four millions of worse than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South, some instrument other than himself must be found to carry it on; and that when any community in the United States shall call upon him for protection against the nameless horrors of a servile insurrection, they shall have it. Glorious lien. Butler! Your offer to suppress an insurrection did more to bring Maryland back to the Union than did all the forces at your command; and your letter will do more to restore the Union than would a dozen well-fought battles. There is a moral force in those words that is stronger than the best drilled ranks, and sharper than the most trusty sword. The powers at Washington and Gen. Scott may compliment you for activity in possessing desirable positions, and energy in seizing the guns of rebels; we send you our thanks for your noble words.-Newburyport Herald.

GEN. BUTLEE'S LETTEE.
This letter of Gen. Butler, in reply to Gov. Andrew's criticism on his offer to aid the civil authorities of Maryland in quelling a threatened slave insurrection, is admirable in lone and of great logical force. The military commander of the department of Annapolis might also properly have reminded the Governor, that he and his command are a part of the posse Camillus, called out by the President of the United States to quell insurrection, and that, as such, the United States marshal in Maryland could have demanded their assistance in recovering fugitive slaves. Gen. Butler and his troops, in this view, are no longer subject to the Executive of Massachusetts, as a magistrate or military chief. They are in the service of the Federal Government, and must, if they regard their oath of allegiance, aid in the enforcement of the laws of that Government. If we desire really to retain the "Border States" in the Union, our own practical respect for laws will give to our cause. "the enforcement of the laws," a powerful moral influence, quite as formidable as Millie balls. It is most desirable that citizens of slaveholding States-seceding and non-seceding-who remain loyal and true to the Union, should feel confidence in the Federal Government, that its power is exercised for legitimate purposes-the preservation of the Union under the Constitution-not to excite or aid servile war, nor even to permit it in a State where the national flag is the flag of the State, A State, which repudiates the flag of the Union would, of course, repel any offer of aid from the Federal power to preserve the peace within its territories: but where the flag flies, let us carry out our loyalty to the Union and to Union men.
In addition, we may remark, that nothing could have such favorable influence in promoting the cause of the Union in wavering minds at the South, and in strengthening those which are loyal, as to save our friends, and if possible our enemies, from the unspeakable horrors of servile insurrection, even though they may have become exposed to it through their own fault. The conduct of Gov. Sprague and of Gen. Butler, in returning fugitive slaves which had fled to their camps, was an argument more powerful than regiments. Nor is it to be forgotten that war itself, -among civilized nations, is carried on. by the Intellect, of which the physical force applied is only the instrument. And the humane sentiments and practices which Christianity has infused into modern warfare, not only soften rigors, at best severe, but also smooth the way gradually to the return of peace, which, among Christian and civilized people, is the first great object in every war.-Boston Courier.
At the signal of actual war, Democrats were the first to spring to their arms. We rejoice at it! We rejoice that the opportunity was give to such a man as Gen. Butler to characterize this war as one not Abolition in its aims, by his offer to repress a rumored slave insurrection. That was an act for the Union -and of the men now in the field in Maryland and Washington, three-fourths are of the same stamp-for the Union and against the Sectionalism of the North and South; but against the last as open, declared public enemies.-Albany Argus.
General Butler makes a very-plausible and ingenious defence, demonstrating that, in taking up the sword, he has not forgotten the weapons of his legitimate profession. He shows, if not conclusively, at least with a force that will convince many, that the specific act which is criticised was dictated by a wise policy, and has had a happy effect.
Every consideration of policy, of justice and of humanity, prompts us to treat the people of the South has brethren who are misguided and have gone astray. but who still have claims upon our sympathy and affection. They have misjudged us in supposing that our resistance to the schemes of their political demagogues for the extension and perpetuation of slavery was a contest for emancipation-Journal.
<c03>
Selections.
SOUTHERN PRIVATEERS ADN THE SLAVES IN THE SOUTHERN STATES.
The New York Courier and Enquirer, in an editorial, apparently from Gen. Webb's own hand, discourses as follows:-
"Most assuredly these madmen are calling down upon themselves a fearful retribution. We are no Abolitionists, as the columns of the Courier and Enquirer, for the whole period of its existence, now thirty-four years, will abundantly demonstrate. And I for the whole of that -period, except the first six months of its infancy, it has been under our exclusive editorial charge.
"Never, during that long period, has an Abolition sentiment found its way into our columns; and for the good reason, that we have respected, honored and revered the Constitution; and recognized our duty to obey and enforce its mandates. But Rebellion stalks through the land. A confederacy of slave States has repudiated that Constitution; and, placing themselves beyond its pale, openly seek to destroy it, and ruin all whom it protects. They no longer profess any obedience to its requirements; and, of course, cannot claim its protection. By their own act, our duty to respect their rights, under that Constitution, ceases with their repudiation of it; and our right to liberate their slave property is as clear as would be our right to liberate the slaves of Cuba in a war with Spain.
"A band of pirates threaten and authorize piracy upon Northern commerce; and from the moment that threat is carried into execution, the fetters will fall from the manacled limits of their slaves, and they will be encouraged and aided in the establishment of their freedom. Suppose Cuba were to issue letters of marquee against our commerce, and, according to the Charleston Mercury, seize 'upon the rich prizes which may be coming from foreign lands,' does any sane man doubt that we should at once invade that Island, and liberate her slaves? Or does any Statesman or Jurist, question purr right so to do? And why, then, should we hesitate to pursue a similar course in respect to this so-called Southern Confederacy?
"Spain, as a well-established nation, and recognized as such by all the powers of the world, would have the right, according to the laws of nations, to adopt such a course of proceeding; but she would do it at <illegible> the consequences. But the rebel government of the slave States possesses no such right. The act would be no more or less than piracy; and we should not only hang at the yard-arm all persons caught in the practice, but we should be compelled, in self-defence, to carry the war into Africa, and deal with the slaves of the Confederacy precisely as we should, under similar circumstances, deal with those of Cuba,
"'The richly laden ships of the North,' says the Mobile Advertiser, 'swarm on every sea, and are absolutely unprotected. The harvest is ripe.' We admit it; but gather it if you dare. Venture upon the capture of the poorest of those 'richly laden ships,' and, from that moment, your slaves lie-come freemen, doing battle in Freedom's cause. 'Hundreds and hundreds of millions of the property of the enemy invite us to spoil him-to spud these Egyptians,' says the same paper. True, but you dare not venture upon the experiment; or, if you should be so rash as to make the experiment, your fourteen hundred millions of slave property will cease to exist, and you will find four millions of liberated slaves in your midst, wreaking upon their present masters the smothered vengeance of a servile race, who, for generation after generation, have groaned under the lash of the negro driver and his inhuman employer.
"'The risk of the privateer,' says the same organ of the rebel confederacy, 'will still be trifling; but he will continue to reap the harvest.' His risk will only be his neck, and-his' harvest' will be a halter. But the 'risk,' nay, the certainty of the punishment to be visited upon the slave confederacy, will be far greater-of infinitely greater magnitude than they can well conceive; because it will be no more or less than the loss of all their slave properly, accompanied with the necessity of contending, hand to hand, for their lives, with the servile race so long accustomed to the lash, and the torture, and the branding and manning of their inhuman masters; a nation of robbers, who now, in the face of the civilized world, repudiate their just debts, rob banks and mints, sell freemen captured in an unarmed vessel into perpetual slavery, trample upon law and order, insult our flag, capture our forts and arsenals, and, finally, invite pirates to prey upon our commerce!
"Such a nest of pirates may do some mischief, and greatly alarm the timid. But the men of the North know how to deal with them; and we tell them, once for all, that, if they dare grant a solitary letter of marquee, and the person or persons acting under it venture to assail the poorest of our vessels in the peaceful navigation of the ocean, or the coasts and rivers of our country-from that moment their doom is sealed, and slavery ceases to exist. We speak the unanimous sentiment of our people; and to that sentiment all in authority will be compelled to bow submissively. So let us hear no more of the idle gasconade of 'the Chivalry' of a nest of robbers, who seek to enlarge the area of their public and private virtues, &c."
This is very plain talk, and cannot easily be misapprehended by those whom it concerns.

A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW.
The New York Examiner (Baptist) mentions a letter from the owner of between two and three hundred slaves-a man who is not able to accept the modern doctrine as to slavery:-
"Is should be rejoiced to gain my living, and the support of my family for the rest of my life, by the labor of my hands, if I could thus gain the freedom of my slaves. How can men talk of slavery being a moral and Christian institution? The lie is in their right hand. They know it is just the reverse; and it is almost an impossibility to preach Christ faithfully under it. Oh, Lord, deliver thy people from this awful curse I Of one thing I am convinced, that slavery is wrong, and I pray God to hasten the day of its emancipation, and I will do all I can to further this object; but these views I cannot express aloud. The Union is most ardently to be desired; but I cannot help feeling that I should much prefer disunion, if by it there could be any advancement made toward abolishing slavery. I would willingly become poor, to give my share in this property up. Only think of upholding Italian liberty, while a poor slave is beaten because he prays, which was lately done on a place not far from us. My tongue, for some time past, seems tied; and I cannot speak for Jesus. Glaring inconsistency; stares me in the face, and the words die in my heart without utterance. I hardly, know what to do but pray, arid to this I Intend to give myself with more earnestness than I ever have yet."
<c04>
NO RIGHT TO SECEDE.
Our review of Mr. Bassett's Plea, thus far, has been chiefly occupied with the principles involved in the case. Only incidentally and hint-wise have we alluded to the facts. It is time, now, to make a formal statement of them as compared with the assumptions of the Plea.
OF THE SECESSION OF THE GULF STATES:-
"The great event of the day and of the world," says Mr. Bassett, "is the formal dissolution of the American Union."
"The formal separation of the States, so long increasingly probable, has at length become a matter of history. The spirited State of South Carolina has led the way, and by the highest act of popular sovereignty, formally repealed the ordinance of 1788, whereby the Constitution of the United States of America was ratified, and has dissolved her Union with the other States of this Confederacy."
Again, in contending against "coercion," as being "itself the destruction of the Government," Mr. Bassett says:-
"It is destruction of the Government, because it is a political revolution. It is a change of the whole spirit of the government, from a Confederacy of sovereign States, held together by common interest and mutual attachment, to a consolidated empire, bound together by military force."
We join issue with Mr. Bassett upon a number of the supposed facts here involved.
1. We deny the "formal dissolution of the American Union" We deny that the American Union is dissolved, any more than it was six months ago. Nor is there as much prospect now, of its being dissolved at all, as there was then.
Six months ago, slavery stood strong, in the comparison with its present position. Its friends and its enemies saw less signs of its speedy abolition than they now do. Slavery is the only disturbing cause that has ever threatened the Union. In proportion as the prospects of a speedy abolition of slavery increase, the prospects of a "dissolution of the Union" diminish.
Six months ago, a much larger portion of the people of the non-slaveholding States were inclined to allow a "formal dissolution of the Union." than there are at present. Abolitionists were, many of them, in favor of a dissolution of the Union, as an anti-slavery measure, who are now, with Wendell Phillips, in favor of a war to preserve the Union by an abolition of slavery. Many who were not Abolitionists were inclined, six months ago, to favor a peaceful dissolution of the Union, for the sake of <illegible> and to put a stop, as they said, to agitations on the slavery question. But now that the slaveholders have attempted it by robbery and force, they are determined that it shall not be done at all. These changes have in part, taken place since Mr. Bassett wrote, but the causes that have produced them were at work then. Mr. Bassett misunderstood the matured facts, and the embryo facts in process of forming.
H. We deny that the declared secession and proclaimed dissolution of the Union was "formally" made, or according to any appropriate forms of such a proceeding. Not only were the other parties to the contract not consulted in respect to its dissolution, but the proper forms of procuring the action of the States that have been declared out of the Union were not taken. Whatever was done, was done irregularly, and without the forms necessary to give the acts validity, had they been ever so lawful ant desirable in themselves. This will more fully appear, as we proceed.
III. We deny that any act of popular sovereignty teas witnessed, when the secession of the several States was declared. On the contrary, we affirm that those who put forth those declarations were usurpers, in that very act, trampling "popular sovereignty" in the dust, and that their grand object was the total destruction of "popular sovereignty" by erecting a military oligarchy, an irrepressible despotism upon its ruins.
IV. We deny that a single Southern State has seceded at all: and we affirm that the despots who, in contempt of the States, affirmed, and proclaimed it affirmed, proclaimed a stupendous falsehood.
What is the State of South Carolina? Of whom is the State composed? Who are they that have the right to call themselves "the State"- or to speak in its name, or by its authority? Who constitute the State of South Carolina, but the people, the inhabitants, residing within the geographical limits o the country called South Carolina? If these are no the State of South Carolina, who are? And by what credentials are they to be known?
More than one half of the people of South Carolina are colored persons, and nearly all of these are slaves. Nobody pretends that this colored majority of the State of South Carolina were consulted at all. No. Nor were the majority of the non-slaveholding whites! By the census of 1850, there were less than 300,000 slaveholders, [exclusive of mere hirers" in all the slave States, in a population of six millions of whites, and above three millions of slaves. The proportion is probably about the same now. The slaveholders, in proportion to the non-slaveholding whites of the South, may be put down as about ha a million to six millions, or as one to twelve. Add the colored people, bond and free, and you have half a million slaveholders, in a population of ten millions, a proportion of one to twenty.
It may be said that many of the non-slaveholders were in favor of secession. Granted, if you please, though it is difficult to tell what proportion of these were so, by intimidation or compulsion. But, on the other hand, large numbers of slaveholders were strenuously opposed to secession, as for instance, Ex-Governor Aiken, of South Carolina, the wealthiest man in the State, and claiming to be the owner of 1000 slaves. He justly trembled for the security of his slave property, and only contributed to the expenses of the movement in consequence of threats, out protested against the proceedings. So, doubtless, of tens of thousands of others. In Charleston and vicinity, (as more recently in Baltimore,) the mass of the substantial citizens were overborne and tyrannized over by the mob. So in other places, if not everywhere. In one word, the entire South is in the condition of Kansas, during the rule of the border ruffians, in the times of Pierce and Buchanan. The struggle now, as then, whenever there is a chance for it, is between the Free State men, white and colored, and the pro-slavery ruffians. The adoption of the Lecompton Constitution was called an act of "popular: sovereignty"-and the statement was as truthful as that "the spirited State of South Carolina has led the way, and by the highest act of popular sovereignty, formally repealed the ordinance of 1789."
The usurpers, well knowing or fearing that an appeal to "popular sovereignty "would defeat them, refused to let even the legal voters; among the white men vote on the question of adopting the secession, or of rejecting it. In Arkansas, where a vote was permitted, but where the arts of intimidation and persecution were, as usual, resorted. to, a popular vote in favor of secession could not be obtained. In Texas, another State in which a rote was ordered, it
<c05>
was indeed declared to be carried by 40,000 majority. But the truthfulness of the returns was denied, Gov. Houston declaring them to be fraudulent.
No one pretends that, counting the colored men, bond and free,-and they all ought to be counted,-there is a single State in favor of secession.
We insist, therefore, that whatever may be the true theory of the right of secession, the fuel of such secession, by a single State, has not been witnessed, to the present hour.
This absence of the assumed fact of secession by certain "States," vitiates all the reasoning of Mr. Bassett, that are founded on that supposed out fictitious fact. As for example, when he says:-
"But this, I am told, is the right of revolution, and that is conceded. Well, if this is conceded, all is conceded. If the people of any Territory have the natural right of revolution, it cannot be the right of any power to put that revolution down. The natural rights of men can never conflict. The right of revolution and the right of the suppression of the same cannot co-exist."
On the score of principle, we have before, in anticipation, answered this, by denying that there is any right of revolution, except for a just and righteous cause, which cannot be said in respect to the movement in the "Confederate States." We now answer it further, by challenging proof that "THE PEOPLE" in those States have exercised or attempted to exercise the right of revolution, in the premises. We deny that any such fact has taken place. We affirm that, on the contrary, the right of "the people" to the exercise of "popular sovereignty" is denied, is overborne, is trampled under foot, by the varies despots that ever trod the earth; who must be put down by "coercion" before those "people" an enjoy "popular sovereignty" at all.
Reversing thus the assumed facts of Mr. Bassett, we reverse his conclusions! We insist that it is the moral and political right, because it is the moral and political duty of the people and Government of the United States to vindicate the "popular sovereignty" of "the people" of the so-called "Confederate States," by putting down the usurpers that oppress hem. The Constitution expressly provides that the United States SHALL guaranty to every State in this Union, a Republican form of Government." The States of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Florida, and Texas, are "in this Union," having never seceded there from. Their tyrants allow them no "Republican Government," nor, indeed, any civil Government, in any form, but only a compound of anarchy and despotism combined. The "people" are entitled to their "popular sovereignty," and the National Government is bound, at whatever cost, to guarantee to them its free exercise. This is due, alike to the white and to the colored "people" of those States.-Principia.

"DOWN WITH THE REBELLION!"
So say the millions of the North-and so say we. But what is the rebellion that needs to be put down? Why, the rebellion of the Confederated States-you will answer.
Yes. But what, and whose is that rebellion? You don't call the man a rebel, merely because he lives in one of those States, do you? You see no rebellion in those residing there, (if there be any.) who make no resistance to the laws, or to the government, who disturb not the public property, but are peaceable and quiet?
Oh! no! Certainly not. But are there any such? Yes. There are the Quakers, in the first place. They are not rebels, are they?
No. But there are not many of them.
But there are others in those States, beside Quakers, who are no more in favor of the rebellion than they are. We ought not to put them down, ought we?
Certainly not. Put down only the rebels.
Well, then, there are four millions of slaves. They have made no rebellion, have they?
No. We must put down only the rebels.
But who are they, except the slaveholders, and those who are under their control, or who are in sympathy with them?
Well. Nobody I suppose. But what of all that Just this, neighbor. Slaveholders are the chive rebels, the instigators of all the others, and all their rebellion comes of their being slaveholders. Had slavery been abolished years ago, there would have been no rebellion, would there?
No. I suppose not. I have always understood that the rebellion was raised by the principal slaveholders, because they thought their rights of slave-holding, as they call them, were not as fully protected as they desired.
Even so. It comes, then, you see, to just this. Slavery is at the bottom of it all, just as rum is at the bottom of the murders committed by a drunken man. Take away the rum, and the murderer becomes a sober man, and a safe neighbor. Just so, take away slavery, allow no man to be a slaveholder, and you will have no rebellions to be put down, then.
Slavery, or more properly slaveholding, is, itself, the rebellion; that needs to be put down. It is an act of lawlessness, a defiance of law, for one man to hold another man as a slave, subject to his despotic, irresponsible control. The man that does this, am persists in it, and claims his right to be a slaveholder, is, in that very act, a rebel against all just government, and against the first principles upon which a government, all law, and all jurisprudence-deserving the name-are founded. A community of such men are a community of rebels, upon the start, in the first place. So long as they can control the government, and make it do their nefarious work, as they have done, for the last fifty years, they will not make war upon it in the manner they now do But the very moment that they think it is passing out o their, control, the bloody flag of rebellion is raised, as we have just witnessed.
The cry of "DOWN WITH REBELLION!" rightly interpreted, must mean-"DOWN WITH SLAVERY!' If it mean anything less than this, it all comes to nothing, and will do no manner of good.
If peace were made to-morrow, without abolishing slavery, the rebellion would be left in full blast, as has been, for fifty years past, and all the more dangerous and mischievous, because nothing was done against it. While Floyd, Davis, and company were having full swing, and stealing all the money and arms, they could lay hands on, without disturbance, we had quiet, peaceable times, didn't we? And all the wise politicians and grave Doctors of Divinity were crying out "Peace! Peace!" and contriving by concessions, and compromises, and National Unity Societies to keep at peace with them.
Just such a peace we should have again, if the war should close without the abolition of slavery. Slavery is the rebellion to be put down.
Put that down, and the work is done-effectually and for all coming time. Neglect to do that, and it were wiser to stop where we are, without expending either powder, money or life, in enacting a miserable farce, arid making ourselves fools in the sight o mankind.
It would be strange, Indeed, if that which is rebellion against God, and against humanity, could be
<c06>
any thing short of rebellion against civil government, ordained of God, and instituted by man, for the protection of humanity.
If the nation would "put down rebellion," it must, itself, cease its rebellion against God. And it does rebel against God every hour it neglects to obey God, by "breaking every yoke," "letting the oppressed go free," and "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof."-Principia.

THE CAUSE-THE ONLY CAUSE
Now that our country is all convulsed, and the grim visage of war is seen in town and city, threatening the slaughter of the sands of our countrymen, and wasting hundreds of millions of money, it becomes all to search into the cause of this outbreak. What has brought the two sections into battle array with each other? Who are the guilty authors of this bloody mischief? On whom will the guilt rest in the great day of final judgment? These are solemn questions; and as honest men and as Christians, we should answer them to our consciences and to God, truthfully, whether we or others are criminated.
As to the cause of our present trouble, there can be no further doubt. It is slavery. Slavery originated the discord that has existed between the North and South. There has not been an event of an irritating character that has transpired in the last fifty years in our National Councils, but may be traced to slavery. All the important measures that have been adopted in Congress and the Churches, for that period, have been framed, if not by the open and shameless dictation of slavery, which sits supreme as God, yet in the light and in the view of this arrogant power. Yes, it is slavery that laid the foundation, and has nourished into its present form-edibleness, the evil that now is seeking to overthrow the foundations of Government.
To be sure, few have seen this hitherto, and some few may still be in the dark in relation to it now. Blindly and unknowingly, mere surface scanners have charged the disturbed state of the public to the Abolitionists. If these could be silenced, the public mind would again repose in quiet, and all would be in harmony. Such has been the mistaken opinion of some, and may be still. But as well might the man be charged with the crime of burning the building, because he sounded the alarm of fire, when he saw it kindling up, as to charge the Abolitionists with being the authors of the present conflict. By examining this subject, they have seen earlier than others, that we -were approaching a crisis. And they have been faithful in warning their fellow-citizens and fellow-Christians of the identical conflict that is now upon us. The evil of slavery so debauches the morals of a people, that they soon, become ripe for every other evil work. Constitutional rights, personal security, financial bonds, and even life itself, are all swept down under the rule of this despotism, so fundamentally corrupt.
Leading secessionists have frankly admitted that they had been at work for forty years to consummate this disruption. It is no work of a year, or ten years. But more than a whole generation have passed away since these plotters have been at work, watching a favorable moment when they could most effectually strike the blow to their advantage; and they chose the occasion of the election of Mr. Lincoln as this occasion. But had Mr. Douglas been elected to the Presidency instead of Mr. Lincoln, we have no doubt but the same results would have been realized. The antagonisms of freedom and slavery have been coming nearer and nearer to each other, year after year, and the time for them to meet in deadly conflict had arrived. This slavery despotism, for the last twenty years, especially, has been growing more and more outrageous and cruel. In that time, to say nothing of prior acts, how many have been despoiled of property and freedom, driven away from lawful business and homes? How many have been murdered in the light of day, when guilty of no offence against the laws or peace of society? What a record of blood and crime stands upon the page of our history, alone attributable to the agency of American slavery upon its votaries! The tears of exiled ones, of widows and orphans, made such by the unscrupulous dictation of the slave oligarchy, has schooled this reckless power for the crowning act of its perfidy, in the attempt now being made to overturn the Government. The cup of its guilt is full. God wills its overthrow. And as the disposition does not exist to do this in the way of justice and mercy-in the way that the mother country did it in her West India colonies-in the way Russia is now doing to her serfs-in the way the Word of God requires freedom to be given to the disfranchised-but the choice has been taken to tread in the footsteps of Pharaoh of Egypt-we say, let God be honored in her overthrow, by his strong arm of power.
But while we make this record of the outlawry character of slavery, and the open guilt of those who are consecrating their all to sustain it, we fear we are to be chastised for our complicity with this great crime.
To say nothing of the original compact entered into when this evil existed, we have admitted State after State, where we knew slavery was to be tolerated-yielded supinely to be governed by its blustering despots, instead of vindicating freedom and manhood. And more cruel than all the rest, we have returned the fleeing bondman to his prison-house, thus turning his hope into the anguish of despair. God has seen all this; and our only hope is in repentance. Our guilt is in tolerating this great wrong-standing by and aiding those who were making merchandise of our fellowmen and fellow-Christians.
And now, while we recapitulate these facts we look upon the openings of Providence, hitherto sealed up, and see such clear indications of a purpose to make the great cause of our national conflict the battle-ground of our rallying hosts, as fills us with hope. Every day, the fact is seen more and clearly, that the conflict into which -we eater, is really nothing else but a struggle for FREEDOM. Casting aside all circumlocution, the SOURTH have made war upon us for slavery, and we meet them in the contest for FREEDOM. And as God was with His people at the Red Sea, and buried the hosts of Egypt in the dosing waters; as He was with. Gideon and his chosen comrades, when, they-faced the tyrants and invaders of Israel, and swept them down like the mown grass, so He will be with us in this holy cause, if we but put our trust in Him. Let our men of war who go forth to the conflict, remember they are not contending for conquest, and aggression; but they stand with God for right-for law-for FREEDOM, against oppression, Let them remember the words of Jefferson, that "God has no attribute that can take sides with oppression.'' May all be boastful only in God, in Right.
This is no time for Christians, to be timid and supine. Let us have faith in God, in justice, in equal rights and upright administrations; and in this spirit, let us all "come up to the help of the Lord-to the help of the Lord against the mighty." -Syracuse Wesleyans.
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men raider the. most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted, with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in thee political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine of foresee what a. sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GEN.BUTLER AND SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
Gen. Butler has done a very indiscreet, not to say improper thing, in sending to the press the unfinished correspondence between himself and Gov. Andrew, without asking the Governor�s consent. Gov. Andrew's letter to him had not been made public, nor had the substance of it or any reference to it found its way into the public prints, so far as I am aware, and I read the newspapers pretty carefully. Yet, for some reason or other, best known to himself, the General sends to the Boston Journal a copy of the Governor's dispatch and a lengthy reply of his own, which reply, judging from its date, and the date of publication, must have reached the press about the same time as it reached the Governor. To send this long, piece of special pleading to the public, without the Governor's consent, and without waiting to know whether the correspondence was to end there or not, was certainly a great piece of indiscretion. I do not think anybody here is disposed to criticize harshly Gen. Butler's course. He is looked upon with favorable eyes here, and especially by his old political opponents, who have always treated him with great leniency and kindness, as I have no doubt he will readily admit. But this is emphatically, as the London Times says, a people�s war. and the people must and will criticise the way in which it is carried on. It appears that there was, after all, no servile insurrection for Gen. Butler to put down; only a rumor of one, and we are left wholly in the dark as to the character of the rumors. Gen. Butler makes his appearance in a hostile or quasi hostile country; somebody tells him there is an insurrection of slaves against their masters; he tells Gov. Hicks that he will aid in suppressing it; and Gov. Hicks snubs him by saying that he can deal with it himself. These seem to be all the facts in the case. It would seem to have been a proper subject of inquiry for Gen. Butler, whether, possibly, the servile insurrection was not an insurrection of loyal people against secession traitors-quite the most likely sort of rebellion at that time and place. Suppose he had been at that time in Virginia, and Gov. Letcher had informed him that an insurrection had broken out at Wheeling, and was fast spreading through the thirty counties of Western Virginia, threatening to break the laws of the State, and dismember the Old Dominion itself? Would he have volunteered to use the Massachusetts forces to put down the Wheeling rebellion? Of course not. Yet, for aught he knew, the rumored rebellion which he was so eager to put down was a rebellion of loyal white men, or loyal free colored men, instead of slaves. His principle of action, in which he justifies his course, is expressed in the following words: "I assured both the Governor and the Mayor, that, supported by the authorities of the State and city, I should repress all hostile demonstrations against the laws of Maryland and the United States." But it is perfectly clear that he can maintain no such ground as this, for the laws of the United States and the laws of the disloyal States are incompatible with each other, and he cannot support both. If he undertakes to maintain the laws of Virginia, he becomes an accomplice of Virginia's treason; does he not? His oath of allegiance binds him to maintain the laws of the United States, not of Maryland or of Virginia; and if he owes allegiance to any other power than the United States, it is the conscience and the public sentiment of the State whose troops he commands. The General paints in glowing colors the excellent results of his offer to Gov. Hicks; but I presume that the presence of his force at Annapolis, and the common understanding that they were there to repress treason, did much more to produce quiet than his unasked offer to put down an insurrection which never existed.
So much for the General's account of what he did at Annapolis. His statement of what he shall do in future is a pure piece, of special pleading, which reminds his old friends of his pleas at the bar when a rich case, of mal-practice or mal-treatment of a seaman fell into his hands. His suppositions case-"Horrors of St. Domingo," "rapine, arson, and murder," "war upon defenceless women and children," "orutalities too horrible to be named," "tomahawk and scalping knife," "four millions of worse than savages," "nameless horrors of a servile insurrection," and so on-has no existence in fact or in fancy, except in the fancy of one who has been in a habit of making this kind of stump speeches, to justify his subserviency to the power which is now in actual rebellion against the United States. The question presented to Gen. Butler was whether he should use his troops, on public and probably interested rumor, to put down a rebellion of men who, for aught he knew, might be loyal black or white citizens cooperating with himself in putting down armed resistance to the Government. Or, supposing there had been an actual rebellion of slaves against their masters, the question was whether these masters, traitors, in all probability, should be allowed to take care of their own little insurrections-to find out how they liked the idea-or have them put down by United States troops, so as to be allowed full opportunity to carry into operation their schemes against the Government. The General will not be able to escape from the actual state of the facts by special pleading; though I have no reason to suppose that his action will be the subject of much comment in future. I understand very well that his position is a difficult one, and I admit that there may possibly be a justification in the emergencies of warfare for departing from the line of rectitude and principle; but that this war can enlist the heart and conscience and brain of the North, so necessary to carry it on successfully, by a system of operations like that which Gen. Butler has commenced, I do not believe.-Boston correspondence of the New York Tribune.
The following unofficial letter from Gen. Butler to Gov. Andrew embraces his justification for having allowed the publication of the recent official correspondence concerning the suppression of negro insurrections:-
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF ANNAPOLIS,
May 10, 1861.
[Unofficial]
DEAR SIR,-I have taken the liberty to permit the publication of your dispatch of April 25th, and my vindication of my action pertaining thereto. I am impelled to this because the substance of your dispatch to me has been given to the public from Boston, through the columns of the Tribune, with strictures upon my conduct.
This could not have been without the sanction of the executive department in some of its branches. Pardon me if I have erred in the publication, but justice to myself required it. Perhaps your Excellency may choose to have our correspondence published officially. If so, I have no objection.
Most truly your friend,
(Signed,)
BENJ. F. BUTLER.
His Excellency, Gov. ANDREW 

CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN GOVERNOR ANDREW AND GENERAL BUTLER.
Gen. Butler has distinguished himself by activity and efficiency in the field. From temperament, mental constitution, and his somewhat peculiar experience at the bar, if he errs, it will be from impetuosity, and from having his eyes wide open to political chances and effects, instead of having an eye single to his military duty. We have too much respect for his really marked capacity to believe that he will soon commit another military error so grave as that, of not only writing an unfair letter for political and popular effect, but of publishing a private military correspondence without first obtaining consent from headquarters. A hasty reading of the letter of the Governor and the General's reply, would lead many persons to suppose that the Governor had advocated, or would in certain contingencies advocate, inciting insurrections. Nothing was farther from his mind. His letter is confined entirely to the question whether, as cases arise, in States or communities more or less rebellious, insurrections shall be let alone or aid given in suppressing them. His letter was written on the 25th of April, when Gen. Butler was under his command, and only a few days after the attack upon our troops in Baltimore, and when both here and at Annapolis and Washington, the line of communication and the capital were believed to be in danger. Gen. Butler delayed his reply until May 9th, when a great change had come over the people of Maryland.
The General's letter of excuse for violating the common decencies of private military correspondence only makes his position still worse. It rises from disrespect into impertinence. A less obtuse sense of gentlemanly and military duty and decorum might have suggested to him the propriety of a letter of inquiry to the Governor, before seeking an occasion to rush into print on an assumption of conduct on the part of the Governor unworthy of a gentlemen. But we return to the first two letters.
<c02>
When the Governor's letter was written, our troops had been attacked in Baltimore, GOV. Hicks had been intimidated, and had asked that no more troops 0ould pass "over the common highway to the defence of the national capital," Baltimore was in the hands of a mob under the direction of influential secessionists, the bridges and railroad tracks in its vicinity had been broken up, the landing of our troops at Annapolis had been opposed, and the track towards the Junction had been torn up, not a gun of Fort McHenry was in condition to fire upon Baltimore, aid might be poured in at any moment from Virginia, and it was as clear as light that nothing but Northern troops would prevent a supple secession Legislature and an armed mob from precipitating the State into active secession. If Gen. Butler, on the 23d and 24th of April, instead of making an offer for effect to put down an imaginary insurrection, had actually used his handful of troops, indispensable to the line of communication and the personal safety of the government, to put down a serious and widespread insurrection, he would soon have been a disgraced officer, and this would have been perhaps the least serious consequence of his folly. The Governor's letter simply told him that, the putting down of insurrections in circumstances like those in which he was placed was a military question, and the proper action depended upon the greater or less loyalty or disloyalty of the State or community in which the insurrections should occur. Whether it was a military question is to be decided by the circumstances on and preceding the 25th of April, which we have partially enumerated, and not by those of the 9th of May. It was then more easy for the General to say that the question had been "neither military nor political." But he was wrong. It was necessarily, so far as he was concerned, either political or military. For the former, the Constitution of the United States expressly provides as follows:-
"The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion, and, on application of the Legislature or of the Executive, (when the Legislature cannot be convened,) against domestic violence."
If, therefore, it was a political question, or any other than a military question, he had no concern with it whatever, until he had received instructions from the President, following the application of the Legislature or Executive of Maryland, and his offer to suppress the insurrection was supererogatory, officious and intermeddling. If it was a military question, and such clearly it was, had an insurrection actually existed, then the Governor's instructions would have exactly applied, and if the General had diverted his troops and thereby endangered his line of communication, he would have merited censure or dismissal, as the consequences proved more or less serious.
It is quite superfluous to discuss the suggestion of Gen. Butler of the moral duty of his transcending his political or military duty to protect with his petty force white women and children against an insurrection in a State, where the whites number 646,183 and the blacks 35,382!
John Quincy Adams is generally regarded as the ablest publicist this country has produced. We shall publish to-morrow an extract of some length from his speech delivered in the United States House of Representatives, April 14th and 15th, 1842. He there treats in the calmest and profoundest manner, with reference to history and the laws of nations, the powers of the President and commanders in the field, in case a State calls in aid to suppress insurrections. He says:-
"I say it is a war power, and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on according to the laws of war; and by the laws of war an invaded country, has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and martial law takes the place of them-and not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has the power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
Now, be it remembered that this is the almost authoritative opinion of Mr. Adams, as the calm result of the reading, reasoning and experience of a long life, in reference to a case of insurrection entirely unconnected with rebellion. In contrast, the Governor's letter, which simply stated that an insurrection in circumstances like those of the 23d or 24th of April was a military question to be treated with reference to the greater or less disloyalty of the people, will be seen to be singularly conservative.
We leave Gen. Butler between the two horns of the dilemma, and trust that we shall hereafter have the pleasure of praising his conduct in the field, and never again the pain of condemning him for violating the confidences of military correspondence, and making a military letter the occasion for a political stump speech.-Boston Atlas and Bee, May 20th 

THE SOUTH AND HER NEGROES.
A Virginia Unionist, recently driven from the State for refusing to pledge his support to Jeff. Davis treason, writes a letter in relation to the South and its negroes, from which we make the following extract:-
"This question is beginning to assume importance. Southern newspapers boast of the loyalty of their slaves, of their anxiety to fight their Northern enemies, and triumphantly tell us that thousands are now throwing up defences and are otherwise engaged in the service of the Southern army, and many slaveholders confidently believe that their servants will assist them in this fight; but, in answering this question, I shall be obliged to tear off the mask.
"Despite the efforts of Southern masters, large numbers of slaves and free negroes have learned to read, and many of them are far more intelligent than the ' poor white trash' with which the slave States abound. During the late Presidential campaign, the most interested and eager listeners at political meetings were these people; they communicated to each other what they heard, and they all understood that the question of slavery was involved in the contest, and very many believed that the election of Mr. Lincoln would secure their emancipation, and many acted in accordance with this belief. One out of many facts will illustrate this point. Soon after the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln, seventeen slaves, living on a plantation near Petersburg, Va., repaired to their master early one morning, and the spokesman of the party boldly told him that they had served him long enough; that they were free now, and had merely called to tell him that they were going away, and on they went. The master had no power to stop them, but he reached Petersburg before them, where he had the whole party arrested, sold, and sent to the far South. A prevalent opinion among them is that this war is a fulfillment of the prophecy recorded in the eleventh chapter of Daniel. They have their revolutionary and patriotic songs, which they sing in private. They hold secret religious meetings, the burden of their prayer being that the Lord will help the North, and hasten the day of their emancipation. A few days ago, I was travelling in the interior of Virginia. Night overtook me in the neighborhood of a farm house, where I was entertained until the next day.
"That night I chanced to hear the evening devotions of the slaves in one of their huts. I was an unobserved spectator. I heard them pray for the success of the North, and one old woman wept for joy when told that the Northern armies were soon coming to set them free. 'Oh! good massa Jesus,' said she, ' let the time be short ' During this time they heard the clang of arms in their master's house, for two of his sons were members of a troop of horse, ready to start in the morning for Richmond, and were practising with the broadswords. To their masters, the slaves pretend entire ignorance of this whole movement, but to white men in whom they confide, they reveal their hopes, fears, desires, and plans. They have no arms, and could not use them if they had; but they have other means of destruction more potent and fearful, which no power can prevent their using. When the time comes for them to act, they will know no love stronger than the love of liberty."
SLAVES IN NORTH CAROLINA. They have a singular way of testifying to their confidence in slaves in North Carolina, as shown by the writer of a private letter, as follows:-
"It may be supposed that we have a sharp eye on the black population at this; time. So far, they appear to be orderly and loyal In Wilkes, about a week since, one morning, a negro was found dead, suspended by the neck to a tree. Such is the report. Two or three nights since, a slave belonging to one of the celebrated Siamese Twins, who live in our neighboring county of Surry, being challenged by the patrol, showed signs of hostility, when he was immediately shot dead"
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 24, 1861.
REPRESSING SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
In his letter to Gov. Andrew, defending his atrocious overture to Gov. Hicks to suppress a slave insurrection in Maryland, with the Massachusetts troops under his command, whenever needed, Gen. Butler adroitly conjures up " all the horrors of St. Domingo" for popular effect,-"a million times magnified," too-and asks, "Could we justify ourselves to ourselves in letting loose four millions of worse than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South? Can we be justified to the Christian community of Massachusetts? Would such a course be consonant with the teachings of our holy religion?" These questions we propose to answer.
First-a word respecting "the horrors of St Domingo." These are invariably referred to, by the traducers of the colored race, as though their perpetration was exclusively confined to the black population of that island; whereas, the real truth is, they were commenced, prosecuted, and carried to an unsurpassable height of fiendishness by the French invading mercenaries, and only imitated, at last, to a limited degree, by the struggling blacks, in retaliation and as a measure of self-defence. Just as Gen. Butler is warning the Southern traitors, that, if they resort to hellish deeds against his own loyal forces, he will "better the instruction "by a ten-fold vengeance! The French troops took the initiative in every act of diabolical cruelty, and committed the most frightful atrocities, before the blacks could be induced to follow their example; but what they did is never held up to the execration of the world, but carefully suppressed, and only the goaded and suffering party are depicted as having been animated by a fiendish spirit-simply because of their complexional identity with the fettered millions in our own land! Such conduct is unspeakably mean and malignant. Moreover, Gen. Butler falls into the common American blunder, of representing "the horrors of St. Domingo" to have been the result of a slave insurrection. Had this been true, what then? As tyrants sow, they shall also reap. Men who glory in Bunker Hill and Yorktown must not deny to the oppressed any of the means necessary to secure their freedom, whatever becomes of their oppressors. The exigencies of the case furnish their own justification. "Revenge is sweet" to the white man whose rights are cloven down-even to Gen. Butler-why not to the black man? But the terrible scene referred to grew out of an attempt to reenslave the people of St. Domingo by Napoleon, seven years after they had been set free by an act of the French government; during which period, everything went on prosperously with the emancipated.
"After this public act of emancipation," says Col. Malenfant, who was resident in the island at the time, "the negroes remained quiet, both in the South and in the West, and they continued to work upon all the plantations. Upon those estates which were abandoned, they continued their labor, where there were any, even inferior agents, to guide them; and on those estates, where no white men were left to direct them, they betook themselves to the planting of provisions; but upon all the plantations where the whites resided, the blacks continued to labor as quietly as before. On the Plantation Gourad, consisting of more than four hundred and fifty laborers, not a single negro refused to work; and yet this plantation was thought to be under the worst discipline and the slaves the most idle of any in the plain." General Lacroix, who published his "Memoirs for a History of St. Domingo," at Paris, in 1819, uses these remarkable words: "The colony marched, as by enchantment, towards its ancient splendor; cultivation prospered; every day produced perceptible proofs of its progress. The city of the Cape and the plantations or the North rose up again visibly to the eye." General Vincent, who was a general of a brigade of artillery in St. Domingo, and a proprietor of estates in that island, at the same period, declared to the Directory of France, that "everything was going on well in St. Domingo. The proprietors were in peaceable possession of their estates; cultivation was making rapid progress; the blacks were industrious, and beyond example happy." So much for the "terrible consequences" of a general emancipation! This peaceful and prosperous state of affairs continued from 1794, to the invasion of the island by Leclerc in 1802. The attempt of Bonaparte to reduce the island to its original servitude was the sole cause of that sanguinary conflict which ended in the total extirpation of the French from its soil.
In the second place-when Gen. Butler talks of "letting loose four millions of worse than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South," he uses language deceitfully and foully. Those four millions are not what he describes them to be; and if they were, their enslavement as chattels would be a revolting crime,-for they, too, would have an "inalienable right to liberty" as broad and as sacred as that of Gen. Butler or his soldiers. But the negroes are not of a savage nature, but remarkably docile, patient, slow to wrath, reluctant to shed blood, forbearing and forgiving to a wonderful degree. It is their remorseless and inexorable masters who are "worse than savages," as those who have gone from the North to grapple with them will find out to their cost in due season! There is a great deal of ferocity, both latent and active, in the Anglo-Saxon character; very little of it in the African. There is nothing, therefore, to warrant the flippant but popular supposition, that if the slaves at the South should rise in rebellion to obtain their freedom, they would be led to the perpetration of "brutalities too horrible to be named," beyond what white men would commit under similar circumstances. On the contrary, they would be very likely to lean so far to the side of mercy as to defeat their own end, and make their subjugation comparatively easy. It would be their white enemies who, with their passions "set on fire of hell," would unquestionably proceed to commit such devilish deeds as would cause the earth to shudder. It has always been so. See what was done by the demonized Virginians at the time of the Nat Turner insurrection! Who were the "worse than savages" then, Gen. Butler?-Here are a few examples:-Innocent colored persons were sacrificed without mercy to the excited passion and hot revenge of the whites in pursuit. One of them was put to death by torture. They burnt him with red-hot irons-cut off his ears and nose-stabbed him-cut his hamstrings-stuck him like a hog-and, at last, cut off his head, and spiked it to the whipping-post, for a spectacle and a warning to the other negroes! The wish was frequently expressed, that "the d-d negroes might all be exterminated." In other instances, the flesh of their cheeks was cut out, their noses and ears cut off, their jaws broken asunder, and then set up as a mark to shoot at! At Wilmington, N. C., Nimrod, Dan, Prince and Abraham were all shot on Gallows Hill, and their heads stuck on poles at the four corners of the town!
Gen. Butler supposes himself to be better than a negro slave: he is no better. He assumes to have a better right to freedom: he has none. He would shed the last drop of blood in his veins sooner than own a master, or wear a chain; but he volunteers to put down slaves nobly struggling to recover their manhood. This is not to be a hero, but a dastard. Granted the right of Gen. Butler to fight for his own liberty, and the right of every plantation slave to do so is established. What" horrors" may grow out of it is not the question: these cluster about every war. Wait till the present conflict be terminated, if you would sup your fill of them!-for the South is thoroughly demoralized, and there is no conceivable atrocity, in the perpetration of which she will not take the initiative: her hatred burns with hellish intensity, and she will assuredly commit "brutalities too horrible to be named," if Northern men or women, fall into her hands at this juncture. In such an event,
<c04>
Gen. Butler promises not to be outdone on the score of barbarity! "If dishonorable means of defence," he says, "are to be taken by the rebels against the government,-if men are to be attacked by poison, or stricken down by the assassin's knife,-the community using such weapons may be required to be taught that it holds within its own border a more potent means for DEADLY PURPOSES and INDISCRIMINATE SLAUGHTER than any which it can administer to us." That threat means "all the horrors of St. Domingo"! nay, more, it is a justification of them all, in case of a slave insurrection!-because that is to resist a bondage, "one hour of which," says Thomas Jefferson," "is fraught with more misery than ages of that which we rose in rebellion to oppose."
Men who grievously oppressed, however degraded by the act, are not, when aspiring to be free, to be classed with brutes by representing their emancipation as "letting them loose." Woe be to those who conspire to keep them in their chains! It is a misuse and an abuse of language to say, that giving men their natural rights, and all the means of development and happiness, is to "let them loose," in an evil sense. On the contrary, it is to obey the will of God-to conform to the law of nature-to place the soul of man in right relations, and under whole some constraint-to promote peace and good will, and stop the shedding of blood-to do as we would be done by. Hence, immediate emancipation is required by every principle of justice, and every dictate of mercy.
In asking whether such a course would be "consonant with the teachings of our holy religion," General Butler shows that he is quite ignorant of the nature of that religion. Will he dare affirm that Christianity gives one man the right to own, as bona fide property, another man-to chain him, brand him, mutilate him, insult and degrade him, work him without wages, deny him the tide of father, rob him of his children, hunt him with bloodhounds when attempting to escape, and violate the chastity of his wife or daughter, ad libitum? Is not all this as bad as poisoning, or resorting to the assassin's knife? Does not "our holy religion "enjoin upon us to "remember them that are in bonds as being bound with them," to "call no man master," and to be universal and impartial in our love? Whether, in carrying out these injunctions, we "can be justified to the Christian community of Massachusetts" is a matter of little consequence; for that community has no claim to the title of Christian, which places upon them its condemnation.
Gen. Butler is concerned for the safety and sacredness of Southern homes and hearths. What does he care for the homes and hearths of four millions of slaves in that section? Nothing. Of these he is willing to help deprive them, with all the military force under his command! There shall be no hope for them, or their children, or their children's children, so far as he is concerned-provided there be no poisoning of his men, no resort to " dishonorable means of defence" against his own troops, by their rebellions owners!
One word as to slave insurrections. We revolt at the shedding of human blood; we reject the use of all carnal weapons; we deny the right of man to destroy his fellow-man in any emergency. Hence, for a period of thirty years, we have labored to effect a peaceable emancipation of the slaves, in the spirit of restitution, and as a measure of justice and safety. Our appeals have been scoffed at as fanatical, and our non-resistance views branded as absurd, impracticable, unnatural. Well, the time has come to expect a slave insurrection at any moment. When that moment arrives, as non-resistants we shall give to the struggling slaves our warmest sympathies, because they are the fearfully wronged and outraged party, and their groans and agonies have been too long unheeded-just as we are giving those sympathies to the Government in its present effort to put down the foulest conspiracy that the world has ever seen. We shall give no heed to the cant about "the horrors of St. Domingo ":-there are no horrors in the bloodiest strife ever waged for liberty, at all comparable to those to be found in the slave system and its frightful concomitants. Did we believe in resorting to the sword in any case, our first use of it should be in the service of the manacled slave, to sunder his chains, and smite his oppressor to the dust.

CITIZENS NOT CITIZENS!
A curious spectacle is presented at the present time in this Commonwealth. By her State Constitution and laws, Massachusetts has abolished all complexional distinctions on her soil; so that our colored citizens stand on the same equality with all others. But these, by the act of Congress relating to the militia, are denied enrollment as citizens capable of bearing arms; so that, though they can make a President by their votes, they are pronounced unworthy to handle a musket in defence of the government! Anxious to show their loyalty, they have petitioned the Legislature now in session to erase the word "white" from the militia law,-first, on the ground of their acknowledged citizenship in this State; secondly, for the following reasons:-
Your aggrieved petitioners further respectfully submit, that no law of Congress, however long submitted to, which is clearly unconstitutional, or of questionable legality, ought to be permitted to control the legislative action of your honorable body;-
That such is the Congressional law, enrolling only "white" persons in the militia, to the exclusion of all other citizens;-
That this is rendered certain by the 2d Section of Article IV. of the Constitution of the United States, which expressly provides-" The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States"-thereby excluding all unjust and unnatural distinctions among citizens, whether pertaining to the militia or to any other service;-
That, while it is true that Congress is constitutionally empowered " to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia," and " to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces," it is equally true that this is no warrant for the contemptible proscription of any class of bona fide citizens by Congress, on account of their complexion-the design of the power thus granted being clearly one of necessary arrangement and efficient enrolment, not of odious exclusion.
Congress, therefore, has no more authority to establish a complexional rule in regard to the militia of the several States, than it has to require uniformity in a political or religious opinion, or to establish a monarchy. Hence, in enforcing such a rule, it has transcended its constitutional power.
This statement we deem to be unanswerable. How the various memorials have been disposed of by the Legislature may be seen by a reference to the record in another column. The whole subject has been referred to the next General Court! And so, naturalized Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, Frenchmen, Germans, &c. may be enrolled to defend the country, but not native, free-born colored Americans!
Now read the following item:-
REGIMENT OF FREE COLORED MEN. The New Orleans True Delta of the 30th says:-
"Governor Moore, we have heard, has authorized the organization of a regiment of free colored men. We have always relied upon the fidelity of the free colored men who were born in New Orleans-the descendants of those who fought on the plains of Chalmette. And we expect that, when the regiment is fully organized, and if the mean, false, dastardly Black Republicans of the North endeavor to make a hostile approach to New Orleans, our free colored regiment will help to teach them, by a bloody lesson, too, that they know their true from their false friends. We heard it said that Felix Labatut, Esq., an old, esteemed, and wealthy citizen, would be requested to become Colonel of the regiment."
It will be seen that the South is not so squeamish in regard to the complexion of their soldiers as some of our Northern people have been in time past.
BLACK TROOPS IN THE REBEL ARMY. The Hartford Times publishes the following extract of a letter dated Pittsborough, Chatham Co., N. C., May 10th:-
"Every free negro in this county, so far as I can learn, has enlisted to fight the Abolitionists, and there are enough to make a regiment. All the slaves who can obtain consent have also enlisted."
While these traitors are carrying Africa into the war, they may wake up some fine morning , and find that somebody else has carried the war into Africa. So thinks the New York Tribune. We shall see.
<c05>
GOV. ANDREW AND GEN. BUTLER.
"When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war."
The recently published correspondence of these gentlemen, on the question whether duty requires, or expediency permits, the offer of Northern soldiers, on duty in the South in the present crisis, for the suppression of servile insurrection, is one of intense interest Both are learned in the law, and conversant with the political aspects of the question; the position of each gives weight to his words; and each can express his idea with clearness and force, when collateral circumstances do not forbid him to give full expression to it. In the present case, it is to be noted that Mr. Andrew feels it needful to speak not as a man, but as a Governor and Commander-in-Chief; that the man keeps profound silence upon any opinion which he may be supposed privately to entertain respecting the decisive bearings of morality and religion upon the subject of slavery; while the Commander-in-Chief, recognizing two aspects in which that subject may possibly be considered, the "political" and the "military,� turns from the former as irrelevant, and applies himself solely to the latter. In reading these two letters, (which appeared in last week's Liberator,) it should be kept in mind that the writer of the former felt his individual characteristics not a little hampered by his official position; while the latter could throw his whole being, and all his relations to law, politics and morals, past and present, with complete heartiness, into the advocacy of the line of policy he had adopted. 
Gov. Andrew, speaking not as a Christian nor as a man-not even as a Republican-but only as a military superior, objects to a certain military movement of his second in command. Gen. Butler, in defending his position from a military point of view, uses in aid of his defence, without scruple or restraint, alike his skill as a lawyer, and the ideas on politics and religion current in the Democratic party, (so called,) of which he has been a prominent member.
Having had the case under consideration from the 25th of April to the 9th of May, Gen. Butler replies, at length. If his reply be effective, and sufficient for his justification, it is through the force of the follow lowing allegations, queries and hypotheses:-
1. The State of Maryland (where the transaction in question took place) was a loyal, not a hostile State, and its loyalty was confirmed, and strengthened for future trials, and its confidence and good will were secured, by the course under debate.
2. His official business in that State was to maintain its laws, as well as those of the United States, against hostile demonstration, whether of freeman or slave, black or white.
3. Looking at his probable future position in a State hostile, and not at all loyal, surrounded by that servile population which is to be viewed (with the military eye) "as one of the inherent weaknesses of the enemy"-he inquires of the Governor-shall he proceed "by allowing, and of course arming, that population, to rise upon the defenceless women and children of the country, carrying rapine, arson and murder-all the horrors of San Domingo, a million times magnified-among those [enemies] whom we hope to reunite with us as brethren? "shall he and his troops "make war in person, upon the defenceless women and children of any part of the Union, accompanied with brutalities too horrible to be named"? Finally, if he may not in person do this, may he "arm others to do so," over whom he can "have no restraint, exercise no control"? Do "moral and Christian,� any more than military considerations, justify him in "letting loose four millions of worse, than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South "? If this is to be done, some one else must be found to do it.
4. If a hostile State requires his protection against its slaves, that State, in effect, by that act, acknowledges itself already subjugated, and may then properly be treated as a friendly State, and will undoubtedly show itself such.
5. Dishonorable methods of opposition to the United States government and soldiers, by those now in arms against them, are not to be expected or presumed. But, in case such should be used, he may consent to do that which he now declines.
I believe this is a fair statement of Gen. Butler's case. For convenience of reference, I have italicised some expressions in it, meaning to designate there by instances in which the eminent (Attorney-) General has expressed or insinuated "that which is not," thus showing, perhaps, the want of true and solid ground sufficient for his justification.
Though I see no ground whatever for the assumption that it was Gen. Butler's official function to assist in the maintenance of the laws of Maryland., I am not sufficiently learned in the law to pronounce an opinion upon that matter. Since, however, the pious General (taking by the horns that bull which the Governor felt obliged to dodge) has made express appeal to "the moral and Christian point of view" in the settlement of this question, it seems plain to me that he was not authorized to aid in the maintenance of any immoral or vicious law of Maryland. Even if he might help her to do justice, he was not authorized to help her do injustice.
But-supposing him to go hereafter into a hostile State, with a servile population-shall he proceed "by allowing, and of course arming, that population, to rise upon the defenceless women and children of the country, carrying. rapine, arson and murder" among them?
When he says, "and of course arming," in the above sentence, the learned advocate travels out of the record. Gov Andrew had not desired, nor in the slightest degree intimated, that he should arm the slaves, neither is it at all a matter "of course " that he should arm them, even if he made no resistance to their taking the liberty of which they have so long been unjustly deprived.
But our advocate proceeds to talk �Buncombe" on a yet larger scale, and to throw more dust at the eyes, public as well as gubernatorial, which are to read his letter. He assumes that the slaves in question-instead of merely rising to go about their own business, and seek a pleasanter location to live in, as they have a perfect right to do-are rising "upon the defenceless women and children," and proceeding by "rapine, arson and murder."
For the manufacture of pictures like this, there is not the slightest ground in reason.
No doubt, the slaves wish to escape from slavery, and do so when they can. Of those whose escape is discovered in time to be forcibly resisted, a very small proportion kill those who would drag them back to slavery, doing just what we praise our revolutionary fathers for doing. But, while the number of slaves who use this last dreadful resort is exceeded ten fold by the murders of slaves by their masters, so little does experience show the slave disposed to seek this method, that, I believe, if each of the four millions of slaves had the opportunity to escape and kill his master, not one in a thousand would do the latter. Whether or not they are deficient in courage, facts show that, as a class, they are not prone to revenge. The supposition, then, of murder, rapine and arson, in a case where they could escape from slavery without these, is pure calumny. The supposititious case which the General should have stated, to make clear his position to the Governor, is, whether he would interfere to prevent an escape of slaves, or volunteer to re-subjugate those who had escaped.
Instead of this, he goes on to yet more absurd and unjustifiable questions, asking if the Governor would have him and his troops "make war in person upon defenceless women and children, accompanied with brutalities too horrible to be named"? Who had asked him to make war upon women and children? Who had asked him to use any brutality to any body? These questions to his commanding officer, under the circumstances, are not only unreasonable, but insulting. Neither is there the slightest justification for the next question, whether he shall "arm others so to do"! Nobody had asked him to arm the slaves for these purposes, or to arm them at all!
After a further parade of his Christian principles, his sensibilities, and his respect for "our holy re
<c06>
ligion," our advocate proceeds to picture the "letting loose of four millions of worse than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South "!
Evidently, General Butler does not think so favorably as Dr. South-side Adams, either of the slaves or of their masters. In his judgment, all the four millions are to plunge at once into arson, rapine and murder, in preference to making a quiet escape to free soil, as soon as the opportunity is open to them! It would seem, then, that they all must have suffered ill treatment, since no one kills another without motive.
But this view of the case seems not in the least to appeal to the General's sensibility, humanity or piety. He belongs to another parish. That four millions of persons have been so treated that (on his own supposition) they all wish to kill their masters, does not affect him in any manner whatever! Yet, to account for such a state of things as this, the "hearths and homes" of the four millions must have been long familiar with outrage and desecration. A set of people not much better than "savages" must have been "let loose" upon them, for a long series of years!
To leave supposition, and come to fact, we know, by abundant evidence, that the specifications in our Attorney-General's indictment, rapine, arson and murder, are often committed at the South, by masters against slaves. Murder is not uncommon, and is committed almost with impunity. Rape is provided for by law, and is not reckoned an offence at all. And arson, the rarest of the three, though increasing in frequency, is ingeniously varied by burning the negro instead of his house. But these things do not disturb General Butler! They are done by his friends, or by persons whose temporary alienation he hopes soon to overcome. It is only when the tables are to be turned, and his friends are to become (on his own supposition) the sufferers instead of the inflictors of these things, that his equanimity is disturbed.
Passing from this "moral and Christian view" of the matter, he comes again to the "military" view, and assumes, with a hardihood quite regardless of probability, that, when he had suppressed the assumed insurrection of the slaves, the slaveholders would be already "subjugated," and, moreover, would "be friends and not enemies "
Friends to him, very likely! but would they thus become friendly to his government? Would they withdraw their opposition to the Republican administration, restore the forts, arsenals, mints and ships of war which they have stolen, rebuild the bridges and fortifications which they have destroyed, offer reparation, as far as they can make it, to the individuals they have insulted and outraged, pay the expenses they have brought upon the nation, ask pardon for the insults they have heaped upon the administration, beg for readmission to the Union, and, if that is kindly granted, thenceforth live peaceably in it without seeking the extension of slavery? If, at the very least, they will not do every one of these things, they are not friendly to the government, and its General will have done nothing to advance its purposes, how much so ever he may have individually recommended himself to "the enemy."
But General Butler's last paragraph is the most amazing of all. He does not apprehend "dishonorable means of defence" from the rebels against the government! Although his men have had some little experience of attempted assassination by poison and the dagger, he does not, on the whole, anticipate anything dishonorable from such men as Jeff. Davis, Alexander H. Stephens, Governor Pickens, Secretary Floyd and Observatory Maury! In Heaven's name, then, what does he expect? Or rather, why does he not expect that those men, and their associates, will go on as they have begun, turning their backs alike upon honor and justice?
If, however, (for all things are possible,) some "dishonorable" course should yet be taken by the eminent saints who are now using bribery, perfidy and open violence, each as occasion serves, against the government of the United States, who are waging aggressive war against her people, and commencing piracy against her commerce, why, then, in that case, General Butler intimates that he may take a different course. And what is that course to be? Will he then do the things which he has painted in such vivid colors, indirectly insinuating that Governor Andrew has proposed them, and then making a parade of his conscientiousness in refusing to do them"? Will he "rise upon the defenceless women and children of the country, carrying rapine, arson and murder among them"! Will he commit "brutalities too horrible to be named"? Will he "arm others to do so "? Nothing of the sort! He means to say that, in certain future contingencies, he will allow the slaves of the rebels to escape at their pleasure, without volunteering, or even consenting, to recapture them. He means, possibly, that he will accept volunteers, from such fugitives, to form military companies, and act under his authority, in support of the other United States forces. I think he means no more than this. But if he means no more than this, he should, in honor and fairness, have specified this, and no more, as the thing proposed to him by Governor Andrew! If he means no more than this at the close of his letter, all that rhetoric in the latter half of it about women and children, rapine, arson and murder, and the horrors of San Domingo, was a deliberate attempt to impose upon the Governor and the public.-C.K.W.

LIQUOR RATIONS FOR THE ARMY.
These rations were supposed to be a military necessity, in olden times. They were supposed to be requisite to make men good fighters. These stimulating drinks make some men ferocious, whilst others become unusually good tempered under their influence. They will as often incite irrational fear, as awaken courage. These beverages are not like bread, the staff of life. They impoverish the blood and render it unhealthy, and injurious to life and health. They do not steady the aim, but render it more uncertain, whilst they sometimes incapacitate the subject.
Patriotism, character and pride are the most reliable incitements, in the discharge of one's duty, in the time of trial, in the hour of peril.
If strong drink made men desperate alike, in action, they should only be used as men are going into battle, and not daily in the camp. We are not making war against our own patriotic soldiers, and should not introduce these rations into our camps, as they will demoralize and injure them.
Intemperance destroys pride and smothers patriotism, and undermines the sense of honor and of duty. May not these camps become schools of intemperance! May not the soldiers return to spread this damning evil and sin in the community! Let ours be a cold water army, though the South's be not. Rather give the soldiers books than these rations. The intelligence of the free States should be a guarantee against the disgrace of intemperance in the army. Temperance is as much a virtue and a necessity, in the life of the soldier, as in that of the civilian. Whilst the system is suffering under the effects of acclimating, in a new country, it should not be tried and injured by noxious drinks. Nay, most assuredly, not by impure and adulterated liquors which, almost alone, supply the market. The blood is hot enough, in a warm climate, without the introduction and use of burning, exciting stimulants by our soldiers, whilst there especially. One can drink, <Illegible> with less personal injury in his native climate, than in a strange climate. I would advise the soldiers to beware of these rations, in the new climate where they now are engaged.
G.O.B.
"THE RISING OF THE PEOPLE." This is the title of a spirited and graphic poem on our last page, by George W. Putnam. The following stanza was accidentally omitted in the copy sent to us:-
Maine heard, and, from her forest depths, made answer to the call:
At sunrise Ocean saw her bands pass up her rocky wall;
While every hill and storm-worn crag waved high the war like sign,
Her drums were beating loud "to arms!" adown the English line!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE SOUTHERN RIGHT OF SECESSION.
DEAR SIR-Doubtless you have been educated in the political school of Gen. Hamilton, as expounded by Daniel Webster.
On the other hand, I have been educated in that of Thomas Jefferson. Perhaps your political education has been a fortunate circumstance for you, while mine has been an unfortunate one for me. It is, therefore, very likely that we will never see eye to eye as to the nature of our government, though I trust that we do as to human rights generally.
Let me first correct an inadvertent error in your reply to my letter of April 14th.
I certainly neither admitted nor denied your several specifications against the seceding States, further than to re-assert "that the seceding States have not perpetrated treason."
Now, if I understand the theory of the "Garrison Abolitionists," they assert that the Federal Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell." That the Federal Government has always been administered as such a compact is frankly granted. And if such is either the nature of the compact, or the fact of its administration, then the "Thoughts on Treason," by the Rev. Beriah Green, cannot be easily refuted. "The Secessionists" and the Unionists "are enlisted, the one and the other, in a deadly warfare with humanity." The former have been engaged in this war for two whole centuries; the latter, ever since the adoption of this "agreement with hell.
It is time that this joint "warfare against humanity" was at an end; and, in my humble opinion, the States that fight to maintain this "agreement with hell" are just as guilty before God and man, as those that fight to sever the vile connection.
"Perhaps," concludes friend Green, "they may kindly clear the way for something essentially other than now obtrudes its ghastliness upon our loathing thoughts. Heaven grant it!"
To this-"Heaven grant it"-I cordially respond a thousand hearty amens, from the firm conviction that this war can by no possibility be justified but upon the absolute, prompt and unconditional manumission of every slave in the confederacy.
To me, it seems to be utterly impossible that an acknowledged covenant with death and an agreement with hell" can have any binding, legal or moral obligation whatever. The very nature of such a compact renders it nugatory-nay, absolutely null, void, and of no force. "Fraud," says Vattel, "vitiates all contracts." Hence, the present war, to enforce "an agreement with hell," which of necessity must be fraudulent, is unrighteous-it is truly "a deadly warfare with humanity."
No one will question the fact, that the slaveholders are divided as to the best policy to maintain slavery. The cute and knowing ones, especially those holding a large number of slaves, adhere to this "agreement with hell" as the ark of their safety, because they know that the States now fighting to enforce it against the slaves are determined, strong and subservient to the cause of slavery. On the other hand, the reckless slaveholders, who believe in their ability to maintain their "peculiar institution" without the aid of their late joint allies in crime, go blindly and foolishly for secession, because they fear that the free spirit of the North may give a new version to the Federal Constitution.
They well know the impregnable position of the "Radical Abolitionists "Spooner's Unconstitutionality of Slavery" has opened their eyes to the dangers that may await them in the future. They know that the temper of the North, if once aroused, can overthrow this "agreement with hell" by administering the Federal Constitution, in accordance with "the plain sense and intention of the words used in that instrument," as an anti-slavery document.
If we must fight for the Union, for God's sake, for humanitys sake, let it be for an anti-slavery Union, and not for this accursed "covenant with death," and this "agreement with hell.
Let congress, when it meets on the ensuing fourth of July, either acknowledge the independence of the "Confederate States," or promptly and unconditionally abolish slavery in every State of the old confederacy. For if the States have the right to institute, maintain and uphold chattel slavery, they have an unquestionable right to secede in order to maintain slavery, if, in their estimation, such a course is necessary to secure the institution. If, on the other hand, the Federal Government has the right to reduce the seceding States into submission, there can be no question, either about the right, or the duty, of abolishing slavery, and thus removing the cause of secession. No better evidence of the truth of this position need be given, than the rude haste of Senator Seward, and others, to strangle in its cradle the young giant Hercules of the North, (the Radical Abolition party,) by an "irrevocable" amendment of the Federal Constitution prohibiting the abolition of slavery in the States, by Federal action.
This vile proffer of making this "covenant with death," and this "agreement with hell," not only plain and perspicuous, but "irrevocable," is not yet abandoned by the reconstructionists. Let the true friends of immediate emancipation, whether "Garrisonian" or "Radical" Abolitionists, not be deceived. The reconstructionists intend to triumph.
Mr. Everett, in his "maiden speech in Congress," pledged himself to carry out this "agreement with hell." And this pledge, notwithstanding the scathing rebuke of John Randolph, has never been withdrawn.
Mr. C. M. Clay, in his speech at the Cooper Institute, New York, emphatically declared, though admitting the criminality of such a course, that he would go for "the destruction of the black race, should the African slaves take up arms to vindicate their liberty. These," continued Mr. Clay, "are the sentiments which I have always avowed. Further, I believe them to be the sentiments, so far as I know, of the members of the great Republican party of these States."
Judge Douglas, in his late speech before the Legislature of Illinois, emphatically pledges himself to this "agreement with hell." He says, "On the contrary, if there was an attempt to invade those rights, to stir up servile insurrection among their people, I would RUSH to their rescue, and interpose, with whatever strength I might possess, to defend them from such a calamity."
Here are three leading statesmen, who, in their respective parties, by and through an unjust prejudice against color, exert an almost omnipotent power over the masses, on the question of emancipation.
The other day, I remarked that nothing could justify this war but the emancipation of the slaves. This remark was met by an avalanche of abuse against the poor negroes. One said, that if they were set free, they would steal, rob and murder. Another, that not white woman would be safe, if the "d-d buck niggers" were set free. Another, that they would go South, "wipe away every G-d d-d nigger," and whip the traitors.
With such an element of society, (every officer and private sworn, "without a mental reservation," to support this "agreement with hell," ) fighting the secessionists "for a surer plan of maintaining slavery," well may friend Green exclaim, "We see the potsherds of the earth striving with each other. Traitor throttles traitor." B. G. WRIGHT.
Rural, Illinois, May 5, 1861.
REMARKS. We are not insensible to the incongruities and paradoxes involved in the present conflict, as set forth by our correspondent; nor have we believed or hinted that the Government entertains any other design than that of restoring the old state of things, leaving "the covenant with death and the agreement with hell" as before. But "God is greater than all" -and we are persuaded that, as a matter of fact, the old Union is gone forever, and that the result of this war must be either the total abolition of slavery, or a separation between the North and the South. We agree with the New York Independent that 
"The instinctive feeling of all classes at the North and at the South is, that this war, if efficiently prose-
<c02>
cuted by the United States, will be the doom of slavery. The awful justice of God, using an injured and aroused people as its instrument, is bringing down upon the abettors of slavery the retribution challenged by that system of iniquity. Slavery will be thoroughly broken down, if not finally abolished, by the advance of an army upon the South, crushing every form of actual or organized rebellion against the Government. This will be the necessary consequence of a vigorous prosecution of the war. It is not the plan of the Administration at Washington. It is not in the thoughts of the citizen soldiery who have rallied to the defence of the Government. It is not a conspiracy of Northern Abolitionists. It is the decree of Providence written upon the face of events, so that he that runneth may read.
If our friend thinks he can make out a justification for the Secessionists by any thing to be found in the school of Hamilton or Jefferson, or from an American stand-point, we have only to say, for ourselves, that we cannot. For a thorough refutation of the doctrine, see the article by WILLIAM GOODELL, on our first page, copied from The Principia.

THE WAR AND SLAVERY.
Every Abolitionist must rejoice in the seeming promise given by the signal events that are now transpiring; in the hope for the slave that seems to dawn in the fierce battle-conflict for which the two opposing sections of our country are now marshalling themselves in array. Such a drawing of the lines, there has never been before; on the part of the North, such a measure of unanimity, ardor of enthusiasm, and determination for something. The Northern hosts, now pouring down upon the Slave Border to quell the slaveholders' rebellion against the government, may yet fulfill a purpose higher than their consciousness, or that of those who have summoned them. Slavery may be swept away in the tornado of Northern exasperation and passion. Such an event seems now not unlikely to occur, and every friend of humanity will rejoice that even so the work of God be done, and the very wrath of man made to praise Him.
But we must not be too confident in our expectation in this matter. Gratifying as this uprising, in a sort, of the Northern people is, it is yet not of itself greatly to be accounted of or relied upon. There is not any great amount of character invested in the thing. The North is where she is, to-day, mainly by sheer necessity, through the stern force of circumstances. It is not because she has not been willing to compromise with the South, that no compromise has been effected. Proffers have been freely made, assurances and reassurances prodigally tendered, in the hope of inducing the South "to stay their hands." Only three months ago, the conventions of the Abolitionists, in nearly all our Northern cities, were broken up of mob violence, and the right of free speech trampled under foot. No one can doubt that the Abolitionists themselves would have been ruthlessly sacrificed by the populace, had there been any prospect that such sacrifice would have placated the Southern masters. With the characteristic insolence of slaveholding, all these proffers and advances were spit upon, and the North despised and flouted, defied and assailed.
Hence the attitude of the Northern States to-day. They are forced into the conflict with slavery, strongly enough against their will; compelled to take up arms, and make stand for the maintenance of their very existence. And although the sentiment of justice has some place, and is an element in this movement, it is yet quite subordinate and partial. For most part, it is resentment for the insult done to the flag and the nationality, and the boy's determination to vindicate his claim to a place, and flog out his antagonist. There is little thought, and no design, to make common cause with the slave, or vindicate his right to freedom. The question, it is affirmed, has nothing to do with the negro! It is the white man's war, the white man's rights that are to be maintained, the Union to be fought for and recovered, slavery kept somewhat in place indeed, but, as of old, to be follow-shipped, shielded, and protected! The rights of "our Southern brethren." in the matter of their "institution," are to be held inviolate-the old guarantees sacredly reaffirmed and respected!
Such, so far as avowed, is the purpose both of the government and of the multitude who are rushing to its aid. Higher aims and expectations may be cherished by many; but, for the sake of avoiding differences, and the hazard of any reduction of numbers, they are carefully kept in silence.
Better ground than this must be taken ere any thing worthy can be done. A war for the Union, in the sense in which that term has all along been employed, and which the "stars and stripes" have been used to symbolize-a union of Freedom in the same household with Slavery-a war to bring back recusant and revolted States into the fold of a government that guarantees them full protection in the maintenance of their atrocity-what a chaotic, purposeless war it is! What an empty nothing we shall have gotten when we have gained all? A vast amount of determination and toil and suffering, of blood and treasure expended, that we may be conducted, finally, nowhere! 
The atrocious insults and outrages of the South may precipitate the North into a position whence it shall find no relief or escape, except through the overthrow of slavery. God grant that this result may at any expense be brought about-that through heaviest retributive visitations, even, the nation may be shut up to the work of emancipation! There is no solution of our troubles short of this, and this the sooner done the better.
Meanwhile, the friends of humanity must press home its claims with renewed earnestness and unflagging zeal. No freedom for the free, if they refuse to recognize the bondman, and grant him access to its participation and enjoyment with them. God's question to the nation at this hour is-"Will ye remember the slave? If nay, then woe be to you! Your greatness shall be a delusive cheat and a mockery, your prosperity a failure, your successes defeats and swift advancing ruin."
Syracuse, N., Y., May 11, 1861. M.
AN ARMY NUMBER OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, JUNE, 1861. The Atlantic Monthly for June contains additional chapters of Agnes of Sorrento, by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe; Napoleon the Third; Denmark Vesey-an Authentic History of the South Carolina Slave Insurrection of 1822; American Navigation; The March of the New York Seventh to Washington, by a Member of the Regiment; An Army Hymn, by Dr. O. W. Holmes; The Pickens-and-Stealin's Rebellion, by James Russell Lowell; Things Slowly Learnt, by the "Country Parson"; and other valuable and interesting articles.
The especial adaptation of the contents of this number to the wants of the reading public at the present time has induced a number of patriotic gentlemen of Boston to subscribe for 10,000 copies, as a gratuitous donation to the officers and privates of the army of the United States.
Address Ticknor & Fields, publishers, Boston, Mass. 
ANTI-TOBACCO JOURNAL. The following is the table of contents of this magazine for May and June: Dr. John C. Warren on the Pernicious Effects of Tobacco; The Discovery of Tobacco: Maize and Tobacco, by L. H. S., Hartford; Ct.; A Christian Triumph over Tobacco; Appeal to Wives, Mothers and Sisters; Rev. Dr. Justin Edwards on Tobacco and Strong Drink; Testimony of Professional Men; To Rev. Dominie Spittle; Touch of Humor from Father Aixley; Life Assurance Companies and Tobacco; How Ladies South and West take Snuff; A Farmer's Testimony; The Street Smoker; The Pet Skunk; General Correspondence; Boy's Department.
This a beautifully printed and racily conducted publication, deserving of every encouragement. It is edited by Rev. George Trask, Fitchburg, Mass. Price one dollar-subscribers having twelve numbers a year Give it the widest circulation.
The New York Churchman, the unblushing advocate of slavery and the slave trade, has shut up shop, and lifts up its voice no more.
<c03>
EQUAL RIGHTS OF COLORED CITIZENS.
The colored citizens of Massachusetts, hoping the Legislature, at its extra session, would improve the opportunity to erase the word "white" from its statute-book, made an appeal in three separate petitions, embracing three different points, but harmonizing in purpose.
The following record of action by the General Court is herewith submitted:-
HOUSE. May15. Simeon P. Adams, Esq., of Boston, presented the petition of J. Sella Martin and 25 other colored citizens of Boston, as follows:-
'We, the undersigned, colored citizens of Boston, respectfully pray your honorable body to remove the word 'white' from that part of the statutes of the Commonwealth known as the militia law.
We make this prayer, first, because such a distinction is anomalous to the spirit of justice and equality pervading all the other laws of this Commonwealth; secondly, because we desire to be recognized by the laws as competent to and worthy of defending our homes and the government that protects these homes."
Also presented from Robert Morris and 71 others the following:-
To the Legislature of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, colored citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully pray that the laws of the Commonwealth may be so amended that colored citizens may be authorized to form military companies for the support of the government.
May 16. Mr. Adams presented, from John T. Hilton and 22 other colored citizens of Massachusetts, the memorial which appeared in last week's Liberator, denying the constitutionality of the law of Congress, and claiming equal military rights for the memorialists.
The Memorial was laid on the table, on motion of Mr. Jewell of Boston, who then reported, in behalf of the Committee on the Governor's Message, that the two other petitions be referred to the next General Court-adding, that the report was submitted on the unanimous concurrence of the Committee.
Charles W. Slack, Esq., of Boston, earnestly protested against this action-if it was designed merely as a means of getting rid of the subject. The question had been often deferred, and he thought that in the present exigencies in our national affairs, the subject demanded the favorable consideration of the House.
He then referred to the various disabilities to which the colored people had been subject, and which had gradually been removed, and he hoped that now in this time of trial of the country, when colored citizens were yearning to take part in its defence, that this privilege asked for would no longer be denied them.
Mr. Hammond of Nahant said he concurred with the gentleman from Boston in his views generally, but there was a statute of limitations in the way, that of the Constitution of the United States, and while we were now engaged in a contest for sustaining that Constitution, it would not be wise to take any steps by which we might come in conflict with it.
Mr. Albee of Marlboro' called for the yeas and nays, and the Report was accepted, by a vote of 119 to 81, as follows:-
YEAS-Abbott, Abercrombie, Ayres, Babbitt, Banfield, Borden, Bardwell, G. W. Barker, O. R. Barker, Barrett, Barry, L. Bates, Beecher, Bell, Bennett, Branning, Brodhead, E. Brown, E. F. Brown, G. H. Brown, Bullock, Burnham, Calhoun, Chapin, Chapman, G. W. Chase, Choate, J.W. Clark, J. Clark, Clement, Cole, Crafts, Cudworth, Curtis, Cutler, G. T. Davis, W. W. Davis, Day, Donaldson, A. Ellis, Emery, Fales, Forbush, Foster, Gibbs, J. Gifford, G. Goodwin, Gove, Hale, Hall, Hamilton, Hammond, Harkins, Hartwell, Heywood, Hills, Hobart, Hobbs, Hooper, W. C. Jenkins, Jewell, Jones, Kimball, Lawrence, Lewis, Lincoln, Littlefield, H. A. Lothrop, Merriam, Morris, S. Morse, Nash, Newell, O'Keefe, Osgood, Otis, Paine, Perry, Platt, Robinson, C. Rogers, J. S. E. Rogers, Safford, Sargent, P. H. Sears, Seccomb, Shattuck, Shaw, Sibley, Slocum, Elisha Smith, F. Smith, H. F. Smith, J. M. Smith, Snow, Southard, J. V. Stevens, Story, Swain, Tapley, Tarbell, Taylor, Thompson, Tilton, Tirrill, Trow, C. Tyler, J. S. Tyler, N. Tyler, Whipple, J. White, W. White, Whitmore, C. Williams, G. H. Williams, Wightman, Woodman, Wright, Wrightington-119.
NAYS-F. C. Adams, S. P. Adams, Albee, Armsbee, Atwood, Bannon, Bartlett, O. H. Bates, Belknap, Bliss, Brownell, Cain, Capen, O. Cary, W. H. Cary, Chamberlain, Claflin, J. D. Clark, Copeland, Daniels, S. M. Dean, S. E. Dean, Durfee, Earle, C. L. Ellis, Favor. Fish, Fisk, S. Gifford, Godfrey, Grout, Hervey, Haskell, Higgins, Hill, Hoadley, Hodges, Hopkinson, Howe, I. Jenkins, Lombard, H. O. Lothrop, Loomis, Lummus, Mann, Marsh, Mason, J. W. Morse, Newman, Newton, A. Nichols, A. C. Parson Poaliody, <illegible>, J. Q. A. Pierce, H. L. Pierce, W. H. Pierce, Pratt, Prentiss, Reding, Read, J. K. Sears, Slack, Smalley, Elias Smith, O. W. Soule, S. T. Soule, Stanford, Stebbins, Stetson, H. A. Stevens, Stone, Studler, Tiffany, Torrey, Tufts, Vaughan, Vincent, R. Ward, Whitaker, Woodward-81.
ABSENT-Andrews, Brimmer, Centre, A. N. Clark, Coffin, Damon, J. Dean, Doherty, Drew, Elliot, Flagg, Fletcher. Flynt, French, Giles, Gillis, Hooker, Houghton, Hyde, D. Nichols, T. A. Parsons, Phillips, R. A. Peirce, Quincy, Ray, Robbins, Rockwell, Sawyer, Wadleigh, Wallis, S. L. Ward-32.
May 21. Mr. Slack offered an amendment to the third resolve, which pledges all the resources, hearts and arms of the Commonwealth in favor of liberty and law, so as to accept the arms of our colored fellow citizens; and he said he did this so as to make the action of the House consistent, it having previously refused to strike out the word "white" from the militia law.
Mr. Bullock, of Worcester, replied in opposition to the amendment, and urged the House to adopt the resolves as they were reported by the Committee.
The amendment was subsequently withdrawn.
The resolves were then ordered to be engrossed.
SENATE. The motion to reconsider the action of the Senate, in concurring with the House reference to the next General Court of the petition of J. Sella Martin to strike out the word "white" from the militia laws, so that colored men may be eligible to enrollment, was advocated by Hon. N. H. Whiting, of Plymouth. He said that matter was germane to the call under which this Legislature assembled; when we saw treason and despotism abroad in the land, threatening civil liberty, it was the time to do justice to those who were suffering from the same despotism. Their enemy scrupled at no means. It stole, and murdered, and paralyzed the arm of industry everywhere to perpetuate slavery. This is not a time, he said, to make invidious distinctions between the different classes of our citizens. The Slave Power has rebelled against the Government because the further extension of slavery was stopped-because a ray of light had radiated across the country, threatening the extinction of their peculiar institution. Under these circumstances, why should we not call up to our assistance all of our means-all of our citizens? Unless we remove the stigma which we have placed upon the colored man by this law, we are a party to the injustice under which he labors? Why should we not avail ourselves of every honest resource of strength, and enable our colored Yellow-citizens to take up arms in defence of their and our rights? Let the State do its own duty, and if the United States law is wrong upon the subject, we should at least have done our duty. He desired to put himself fair upon the record, and therefore called for the yeas and nays.
Mr. Schouler, of West Cambridge, thought there could be no objection to colored men serving in the Home Guard. Another Senator suggested that the same constitutional objection existed as in the militia clause.
Mr. Cole, of Berkshire, opposed the reconsideration, which was defeated by the following vote:-
YEAS-Messrs. Battles, Clark, Davis, Day, Fiske, Goddard, Hunt, Walden, Washburn, Watson and Whiting-11.
NAYS-Messrs. Babson, Bonney, Boynton, Burt, Carter, Cheever, Cole, Cook, Dillingham, Dresser, Gleason, Hardy, Northend, Sanderson, Schouler, Shaw, Slade, Southworth, Stone, Tompkins, Underwood and Walker-22.
The matter was resumed in the House, on the 18th, by Samuel S. Drew, Esq., of Dorchester, who asked leave to introduce a bill amending the first section of the thirteenth chapter of the General Statutes, (the militia laws,) by striking out the word "white;" but leave was refused by a yea and nay vote of 56 to 139.
Honorable mention could be made of many members for their various exertions to rightly settle this long vexed question.
The speeches of Mr. Whiting of the Senate, and Mr. Slack of the House, will ever be gratefully remembered by the colored man and his friends. Several members in both branches seemed perplexed by what presented itself to their mental vision as a conflict between duty and expediency, and so unwisely consented to forego this golden opportunity of recording their names in favor of the right, blotting out from the statute-book of Massachusetts the last vestige of slavery, and conferring thereby the right of equality upon a long suffering, outraged, but patriotic class of her own citizens. Let no one despair, but all hopefully labor on. They will not have to wait much longer for that victory which always rewards the persevering.
Boston, May 20, 1861. W. C. N.
<c04>
PERSONAL. John G. Whittier publishes an explanation in the Newburyport Herald, relative to the statement which has been extensively circulated that he had written a strong letter to GOV. Andrew, sustaining the Constitution and contributing to aid the volunteers. He has written no such letter. He presumes the paragraph originated in the fact that he had declined to take the sum due him as a Presidential Elector, on the ground that he was unwilling to add one farthing to the pecuniary burdens of the Commonwealth. Mr. Whittier, while remaining firm to his religious faith, closes with the following patriotic strain:-
"No one who knows me can doubt my deep sympathy with the united North, and with those who, with a different idea of duty from my own, are making generous sacrifices of person and property; but as a settled believer in the principles of the Society of Friends, I can do nothing at a time like this beyond mitigating, to the extent of my power, the calamities and suffering attendant upon war, and accepting cheerfully my allotted share of the privation and trial growing out of it. Very truly thy friend,
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Amesbury, 15th, 5th mo., 1861."
RESULTS OF THE WAR. The Atlantic for June contains a well-written article upon the "Pickens-and-Stealin's Rebellion," in which the writer urges a vigorous prosecution of the war, and in conclusion says; "We cannot think that the war we are entering on can end without some radical change in the system of African slavery. Whether it be doomed to a sudden extinction, or to a gradual abolition through economical causes, this war will not leave it where it was before. As a power in the State, its reign is already over. The fiery tongues of the batteries in Charleston harbor accomplished, in one day, a conversion which the constancy of Garrison and the eloquence of Phillips had failed to bring about in thirty years. And whatever other result this war is destined to produce, it has already won for us a blessing worth everything to us as a nation, in emancipating the public opinion of the North."
A FRENCH VIEW OF THE AMERICAN TROUBLES. The Siecle, a Paris paper of large circulation, speaks of the threatened civil war in the following terms:
"We can only regret the blindness which is driving the Southern States to destruction. No one can believe that, with the small number of white population which inhabits them, these States can resist an invasion which cannot fail to be accompanied by a servile insurrection. The cessation of all commerce and the abandonment of all cultivation will plunge these unhappy States into an abyss of grief and misery.
It would have been desirable that slavery should have gradually been brought to an end by legal means; but if blood flows in torrents, and death decimate the population, the fault will rest with the States which first tore asunder the Constitution, violated the laws, and insanely attacked their ancient confederation. We have the conviction that in this shipwreck slavery will ultimately perish, and that democratic institutions will proudly triumph over this severe trial."
MORE SOUTHERN "HONOR." The following is a copy of a letter received by Mr. Lyman Dike, a shoe dealer in this city. It needs no comment: such specimens of Southern honor and honesty have become too common to excite much remark:-
"COLUMBIA, S. C., May, 1861.
LYMAN DIKE, ESQ.,-I have collected three hundred dollars and twenty-three cents for you, and also for O. M. Hitchings three hundred and seventy-eight dollars and twenty-six cents, the notes for which said amounts were given; you have my receipt for collection. The above amounts are deposited in the Branch of the Bank of the State of South Carolina at Columbia. I noticed, some time ago, that the citizens of Boston were paying twenty dollars per month for hirelings to invade and subjugate the South. I will retain the above sums in my hands to assist in the payment for powder and ball expended upon your city hirelings, and the balance will be applied to give them a more decent burial than they would probably get at home. Yours, &c.,
J. H. PEARSON."
Men who will cheat and rob black people will not hesitate to swindle white ones.
FROM FORT PICKENS. The correspondent of the Mobile Register writes:-"I have been requested by several Mobile friends to let them know a day or two before the fight is to commence, as they would like to come over, look round, and, if need be, take a hand. I would give them such information gladly, if it were possible. But, commence when it will, I don't think that I risk much in saying, that in sixty hours after the first gun is fired, there will not be a Yankee left in Fort Diolane. A hundred and forty gone converging on any one point sixty hours would drive the devil from his hole. For several days, it will be essentially a big-gun fight-such a fight as was never witnessed on this continent-a cannonade that will shake the land and the sea." 
We gather the following items of intelligence from Harper's Ferry from the correspondence of the Alexandria Gazette:
"Five hundred Mississippians reached here last night, (the 14th May,) six hundred more will be here this morning, (the 15th.) They are, from all appearances, excellent troops. They are well armed and well officered.
I have just witnessed the arrival of some thirty or forty negroes. They marched in single file into the armory, keeping file to the martial music of one of the company.
Forty or fifty negroes have just gone across the Potomac bridge, armed with axes and picks, [to construct fortifications on the Maryland heights.] Upon reaching the Maryland side, their commander gave them some directions which they were to follow in going up the mountain, and then he quietly went back across the bridge. The negroes resumed their march, looking decidedly the most happy company that I have seen here yet."
Gen. Butler has lost none of his gallantry to the ladies since he exchanged the law for the sword. The Baltimore American says:
"Gen. Butler, while out at the Relay House a day or two ago, saw a company of ladies who were afraid to pass through the camp. On making their fears known, Gen. Butler stepped up and said-'Ladies, don't be afraid to pass; I have just left as dear a wife at home as your husbands think you are to them. My men here mostly (pointing to the troops) left their dear wives and children at home. You need not fear to pass. If any one should insult you, he would be visited with immediate punishment.' It is needless to add, that the ladies took courage,' and passed on."
What of the slave wives, mothers and daughters in Maryland, for whose continued immolation on the altar of slaveholding lust and cruelty, Gen. Butler is ready to employ his forces, if necessary?
The politics of Harper's Weekly are now decidedly Northern. Curtis, in the "Lounger" papers, is especially outspoken. What will the South say, when they read such talk as this in a paper which was formerly considered so friendly to its peculiar institutions?
"They have led us by the nose and kicked us, and laughed at us, and scorned us in their very souls as cravens and tuppenny tinkers. They have swelled, and swaggered, and sworn, and lorded it in Washington and at the North, as if they were peculiarly gentlemen, because they lived by the labor of wretched men and women whom they did not pay-whom they sold to pay their debts, and whipped and maimed savagely at their pleasure."
LATER FROM HAYTI. The bark Laura, Captain Pierce, arrived at this port this morning from Port au Prince, Hayti, the 16th inst. She reports that on the 7th inst. the bark William, Capt. Littelier, had been captured at Fort Liberty, North side of the island, with seventy slaves on board, all in irons between decks. He had taken them on board from the Spanish part of the island, under pretence of hiring them to go to Guano Island to dig guano, and had put into Fort Liberty to get provisions, where he was betrayed by some of his crew, who stated to the authorities that he was bound to the Island of Cuba. The captain and crew were taken prisoners, and sent to Port au Prince by land. The vessel was kept at Fort Liberty.-New Orleans Picayune, April 27.
Steamer Freeborn reports that while in Hampton Roads on Sunday, she heard heavy cannonading, which proved to be between the steamer Monticello and a battery of the rebels on Sewall's Point, at the mouth of the Elizabeth River. As the Monticello seemed likely to get the worst of it, the Freeborn was sent to her assistance, and, drawing five feet less water, she got within 300 yards of the battery, and opened fire from a howitzer throwing shell, and from a 32-pounder.
The effect was terrific. Two columbiads on the battery were speedily disabled, while the men, some fifty in number, scattered in every direction. In a moment, they rallied near the battery, when a shell was sent after them; it struck the ground some twenty feet in front, ricocheted, and passed through the crowd, and they all took to their heels. A few more shots smashed the battery, which the officers considered a good one, into atoms. They think none were killed at the battery. When the steamers left, no one could be seen. 
<c05>
THE REFORMED PRESBYTERIANS AND ABOLITIONISM. The Committee on Slavery, of the body of Reformed Presbyterians, now sitting in this city, have reported the form of a memorial, asking the President of the United States, as Commander-in-Chief, to abolish slavery by proclamation. At the session yesterday, this was referred back to the Committee, with instructions to prepare instead, an address to the slaveholding churches, for which purpose the committee was originally appointed.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce. 
The staid old-fashioned Christian Intelligencer, of the Reformed Dutch Church, comes down on the rebels like a broadside of Paixhan guns. Its last issue gives this utterance:-"We should regard it as one of the best evidences of the returning reason of the rebels, could we but receive the intelligence that they had hung the arch-traitor Davis, and his fellow-conspirators, on a gallows higher than Hamans."
HOT WORK IN TENNESSEE. Recent letters describe scenes of terrible violence in Knoxville, Tenn. A force of Secession desperadoes, commanded by one Wash Morgan, are committing all sorts of outrages. Morgan shot down Mr. Douglas, a Maine man, in his own house, and in the presence of his wife. He and his gang had inaugurated a perfect reign of terror, not hesitating to fire upon people in the street, with or without provocation.
Commodore Tatnell, of the Confederate Navy, has been assigned to the naval forces at Charleston, and has arrived there.
The Kentucky Legislature, on Friday, approved of the Governor's refusal to furnish troops to the Federal Government; and also declared for armed neutrality.
BE PATIENT. The Richmond Dispatch-the paper having the largest circulation in Virginia-says, in closing one of its last week's leaders:-"This very moment ought to see our long range cannon planted on the heights of Arlington, and the bayonets of our legions on the Long Bridge. Not another week should pass over our heads without witnessing the capture of Scott and Lincoln, and leading them in triumph through the streets of Richmond."
GETTING DESPERATE. The Charleston Courier says that the motto of the Crescent City Guard, attached to the Second Louisiana Regiment, and which was to have left New Orleans on the 13th instant for Virginia, is, "Washington or Death." They number eighty-three men, rank and file. These gentlemen are either rather venturesome or they do not read the papers.
The President has been reconnoitering in the vicinity of Washington. Among other points of interest, he visited the Great Falls, sixteen miles above that city, on the Potomac. He crossed the chain bridge, and passed the secession pickets on the Virginia side, and returned the same way. The rebels might have caught a prize, but did not know so valuable a one was with in their grasp.
The Maryland heights are now in possession of the Virginia, Kentucky and Baltimore troops. At the Point of Rocks, twelve miles below here, on the Potomac, a battery of railroad iron has been erected, and a large force stationed. About 800 Alabama troops have just arrived on the train from Winchester, all fully armed and equipped. They are a splendid looking body of men. They report that more are on their way here. By to-morrow evening, there will be an army of between 11,000 and 12,000 men at this point.
Two unfortunate negroes belonging to the crew of the Star of the West, captured by the Secessionists, have been sold into slavery. The New York Evening Post, with commendable spirit, calls upon Government to insist upon their return, or to retaliate in a forcible manner. The names of the two unfortunates are Levi Mann and Walter Goodyear. 
THE VIRGINIA PRESS. The tone of at least a part of the press may be judged from the following from the Richmond Examiner, edited by a recent representative of our Government abroad. He says:-
"As the doomed and damned of Tophet hate the blessed in Paradise, so do the mean, hungry, avaricious, lying, cheating, hypocritical, cunning, cowardly Yankees hate the high-toned, elevated Southerner, but, above all, the Virginian."
WHAT THE SECESSIONISTS HAVE DONE THUS FAR.-Abolished the Fourth of July; given up the Stars and Stripes; defrauded Northern creditors; stolen some millions of the National treasures; fired into an unarmed steamer; established a mock Constitution which they dare not submit to the people; captured a half-starved fortress; lowered the price of niggers fifty per cent., and made themselves a by-word and a hissing throughout the civilized world.-Missouri Democrat.
NEW YORK, May 21. The Tribune says the government yesterday seized the accumulated manuscript of despatches of twelve months, in every considerable telegraph office of the free States. The government can now trace the secret operations of the rebels and their abettors.
Ex-Governor Floyd has been commissioned as a General in the Confederate service. He has commenced raising a brigade in Virginia.
Advices from South Carolina state that the Charlestonians are erecting batteries, armed with rifled cannon, on the coast, to fire into the blockading fleet when it comes within their reach.
THE BRITISH LEGION. The ranks of the British Legion, at New York, are being daily swelled by arrivals from Troy, Albany, Boston, and other cities, while additional quarters have been provided for them.
A letter from the steamer Quaker City says that six runaway negroes were received aboard Wednesday night. Saturday, some of the sailors from the hospital at Norfolk were brought out under a flag of truce, and the negroes sent back!

OBITUARY.
DEATH OF ICHABOD MORTON. The decease of this well-known townsman occurred at his late residence yesterday morning at about two o'clock. His sickness, congestion of the lungs, was of but a few days' duration, and his death has probably taken most of our community by surprise. His age was 71 years. 
In the decease of Mr. Morton, we have lost one of those few persons among us who have been in active life more than the period of a generation. He will be missed-greatly missed. Indeed, we know of few persons in town who would be more so. During a long life, he has been a hard working, honest man, sincerely devoted to his business, and to every good enterprise; and success has generally crowned his labors. He was one of the first movers in the temperance cause, and at considerable sacrifice continued its faithful friend to the end. In the cause of education, he labored early, faithfully, and long.
Hon. Horace Mann, in one of his Reports, speaks of him as one of his most devoted and efficient helpers in improving the condition of the common schools in this State. In this town, he always insisted upon making the education of our children and youth an object second to no other; and it is to him, in connection with others, that we are largely indebted for the present excellent condition of our schools. Had others in town been as public spirited as he was, the Normal School in this County would have been located in Plymouth, instead of Bridgewater. Mr. Morton had his peculiarities, but was frank and honest in the expression of his opinions, and was charitable towards those with whom he happened to differ. He had that degree of perseverance that is not daunted by opposition, and too much magnanimity to take any notice of those who would trifle with his opinions or measures. He was emphatically a well-meaning man, and always demeaned himself with fairness and frankness toward all. He had a strong mind, retaining his faculties to the last.-Old Colony Memorial, May 11.
It is an act of great injustice to the memory of the excellent man whose death is here recorded, and whose character is so justly eulogized by the Memorial, to omit all mention of the most creditable fact in his career-namely, that he was an early, outspoken, unflinching, untiring friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, and gave to the slave his warmest sympathies. Why this omission? At this late day, is it not deemed safe or reputable at Plymouth Rock to make an acknowledgment like this? Farewell, thou fearless advocate of suffering humanity in every shape! we lament to think we shall not be permitted to see thy earnest and benignant countenance again in the flesh!
The following original hymn was sung at the funeral:-
He dreamed that Heaven should come to earth,
And ceaseless toiled, the day to view:
O'erborne, ho sank before its birth,
And, lo! to him the dream is true.
O, weary heart! O, weary hand!
No more the anxious strife renew,-
A Power above the vision planned,
And Heaven on earth is come to you!
Sweet May returns: with leaf and flower
The garden of his love expands; 
Rewarding Autumn brings her dower,
But gives the fruit to other hands. 
O! blest is he, and ever blest,
Who patient sows where others reap; 
And ever ripening fields shall best
His ever growing memory keep.
<c06>
The Anglo-African has changed proprietors, and is now published under the title of The Pine and Palm, and edited by James Redpath, George Lawrence, Jr., and Richard J. Hinton, with a list of special contributors. It is a large and handsomely printed sheet, and very spicy and belligerent. Terms-one dollar for six months, payable in advance, or four cents per copy on delivery. Publishing Rooms, No. 8, 221 Washington Street, Boston-No. 48, Beekman Street, New York city. All communications must be directed to James Redpath, Box 3235, Boston. It is "devoted to the interests of freedom, and of the colored races in America." The first number is accompanied by an extra, containing a full report of the famous lecture of Wendell Phillips on Toussaint LOuverture.
The address on "The Times," delivered at the Music Hall, on Sunday last, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, by Theodore Tilton, Esq., of the New York Independent, was a brilliant and stirring effort, judged from a patriotic and warlike standpoint.
The address on Sunday next, at the same place, will be delivered by E. H. Heywood, Esq.
WORCESTER COUNTY (SOUTH DIVISION) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-There will be a quarterly meeting of this Society, in Brinley Hall, at Worcester, on Sunday, the 26th inst., forenoon, afternoon and evening.
Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, and others will be present, and address the meeting.
Let there be a good attendance of the members and friends of the Society.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secy.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in 
South Ware, N. H., Sunday, June 2.
Milford, Mass.," " 9.
Evening lecture, subject: "The Star-Spangled Banner as the Symbol of Liberty."
MANCHESTER, N. H.-HENRY C. WRIGHT and A. T. Foss will speak in Manchester, N. H., Sunday, May 26, day and evening. Subject: "The Issue between the North and the South in the present Crisis."
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will take place at the Friends Meeting-House, near Waterloo, Seneca County, New York, on Friday, the 31st day of May, 1861, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue through Saturday and Sunday, the 1st and 2d days of June.
A cordial and hearty invitation is extended to all lovers of God and humanity, without regard to sex, color, sect, or condition, to come up to this annual gathering, and enjoy the free expression of all earnest thoughts and ideas, calculated to promote truth, freedom, purity and progress.
G. B. STEBBINS, of Rochester, N. Y., will speak at QUINCY, on Sunday next, the 26th, at half-past 2, P. M., on "Nature's Gospel of Progress and Reform."
At half-past 5, P. M., on "The Present Crisis-its Causes and Significance."
SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,-in the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday, 28th inst. Addresses by the President, and Sermon by Rev. J. Blanchard, of Wheaton College, Illinois, at 9, A. M. Conference and Business Meeting in the Meionaon, at 3, P. M. Addresses and Resolutions in the evening, at the Tremont Temple. Speakers, Rev. Elnathan Davis of Fitchburgh, Rev. J. A. Thome of Cleveland, Ohio, Rev. A. F. Bailey of Marlboro', Mass., and others.
HENRY T. CHEEVER, Secy.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Music Hall, Sunday morning, May 26.
WANTED-By a young man, 22 years of age, a situation as Book-Keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis. Understands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D. W. D., 
Box 2702, P. O. 3t April 12-
SITUATION WANTED.-A very worthy and trusty man desires a situation as a gardener, and to take care of horses, cows, &c. He can give the most satisfactory recommendations. Application can be made to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
PLEASANT BOARDING, ON FAVORABLE TERMS.-Mrs. H. S. DENHAM can accommodate a gentleman and wife, or two or three single gentlemen, with pleasant rooms, on favorable terms, at 75 (formerly 33) Beach street, near the Worcester Depot, Boston.
A few transient boarders can also be accommodated.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
P. S.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis.

The Herald of Progress,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, EDITOR,
ASSISTED BY AN ASSOCIATION OF ABLE WRITERS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
COSMOPOLITAN in every department of knowledge; its crystallized thoughts are intended to furnish a beacon light for the future. Its columns are open to communications upon every subject. Its work is, to elevate the mind, and to add to mans material comforts. Particular attention is given to the department of Health, with new and progressed methods of treating disease, by the Editor. Devoted to no sect, belonging to no party, not given to ONE IDEA, it presents itself to a liberal-minded community, and asks their co-operation.
The Herald of Progress is published every Saturday, on a double folio of eight pages, for two dollars per anaum, or one dollar for six months, in advance. Specimen copies forwarded gratis. Address, A. J. DAVIS & CO., 274 Canal street, New York. April 10.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. 
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE RISING OF THE PEOPLE.
BY GEORGE W. PUTNAM.
Anxiously a waiting people held their stated day of rest-Quietly the April Sabbaths light died in the distant west; When skyward looked the watchers, and on their startled gaze.
Fell the light from Sumters burning walls, and northern heavens ablaze!
Foul TREASONS CUP HATH BRIMMED AT LAST!-THE
CROWNING DEED IS DONE!"
Thus the lightings flashed the tidings from rise to set of sun;
And then, as if the Archangel's trump through Heavens concave rang,
Eighteen millions from their sleeping to a life intensest sprang!
Clear in that lurid light stood forth the dark pines of Vermont;
The man of Hampshire saw its glare on the White Hills rampart front:
It pierced Maines tangled forests, lit the waves of Aroos-took,
And Connecticuts granite boulders with a shuddering horror shook.
On country church, on hill-side farm, on city dome and spire,
On myriad masts, on crowded decks, played the forked tongues of fire:
With the hideous story laden, Oceans waves, a white-lipped band,
Fell and fainted as they told it to Rhode Island's shore of sand!
Glaring afar oer battle grounds, like the red flame of hell,
Full on the Green at Lexington and Bunkers shaft it fell;
White grew Old Massachusetts face with wrath beneath that sky,
And through the land her iron heart beat audibly and high!
The dwellers in Manhattans isle saw bloody Treason stalk;
Like the deep growl of thunder answered the voice of York;
As sped up Delawares broad bay the sentinel's alarm,
Doffed her drab the Quaker city-bared for Right her sinewy arm!
All her generous offers spurned and scorned, her counsels set aside,
The bruis'd check of the North once more glowed with her ancient pride;
At sight of Freedom bleeding, Peace lost her wonted charms,
And the cry went thrilling through the land-Ho! freemen, now to arms!
New England answered with a shout; and from each Vermont glen
The brave Green Mountain Boys came down, with Hampshires mounted men;
The white tents of the Volunteers stretched inland from the shore,
And Bunkers Heights and Concord Green are bivouacs once more!
I read with proudly swelling heart, O Bay State-native mine-
In the fore-front of battle, as in the days lang syne-
Ere yet the trump had sounded, an Angel of the Free
Thou stoodst, with one foot on the land, and one upon the sea!
And from Connecticuts farm homes her yeomanry, in pride,
With the stanch troops of Rhode Island, came marching side by side;
The vast metropolis in arms to meet the tyrant power,
Gave to the cause of Justice the noblest of her dower.
Up Northward from Long Island Sound the cry went hurrying past,
And rolled across the inland seas like Oceans stormy blast;
Along the Pallisades it rang, and up the Mohawk vale,
And backward came the trumpets clang and drum-beat on the gale!
All through the inland counties leaped the electric fire,
And answered promptly stalwart youth, mid age and hoary sire;!
Andtis said that, pointing Southward from where Elbas martyr lay,
Is seen a flaming hand at night, a shadowy hand by day!
Horsemen are trooping oer the hills, wagon loads of armed men
Are hurrying down the country roads from hamlet, grove and glen;
Ten thousand country church-bells ring out their warning peal;
Through the trees the sunshine glances on the passing Northern steel!
And all in line for marching, on many a village green,
With loving friends around them, the country troops are seen:
Hearts are swelling, tears are falling, as the white-haired pastors pray
Gods blessing on the soldiers ere they go upon their way.
Westward roll the thrilling tidings; manly voices, high and rough,
Shout from the up-bound steamers deck as she sweeps beneath the bluff;
While high aloft the stars and stripes are proudly waving o'er,
Her warning gun the story tells along the echoing shore.
Swiftly up the river ravine roads the hurrying horsemen rush,
Shouting hoarsely as they gallop through the prairies softened hush;
To field, to forest sugar-camp, lakeside hut and inland town,
On speeds the word two hundred miles ere yet two suns go down.
Quickly the hunting-shirts are donned, and in the mornings gray,
With their rifles on their shoulders, the men are on their way;
Matrons, sisters, wives and sweethearts, grouped around the cabin door,
Wave their blessings on the hunters as they seek the river shore:
On the hunters who have followed the grey wolf to his den,
The sons of bright Iowa, and Minnesotas men;
Now to hunt the hideous human wolves who make of man a prey,
With firm set lip and springing step they hasten on their way.
Even where Starvation's sceptre, like midnight made the dawn.
Where the tottering forms are many, and the faces pale and wan,
Long bruised and suffering Kansas, once crushed neath Slaverys ban,
Claims for her eager riflemen the front of Freedom's van.
Wisconsin, at the summons, gave up her chosen ones,
And Illinois sent forth with joy the noblest of her sons;
And when with silent drums the troops came marching Alton by,
They heard the voice of Lovejoys blood still calling to the sky!
Ohio, from her thousand vales, Indiana, from her plains,
Send forth their hosts to meet the foe up from the land of chains;
They troop from all the lake-side homes of distant Michigan,
From Jerseys fields, and Delaware, who kept her faith with man.
Down from the Alleghany range they rush like mountain streams,
And where they move the earth grows light beneath their pennons beams;
Their thunder-shout for FREEDOM answers the old bells call,
That rang her birth-peal years ago oer Independence Hall.
In the cities merchant princes rain down a golden shower,
And Beauty comes, as ever, to await the trial hour;
<c02>
All day the nimble fingers sew, all night beside the lamp,
And Womans voice and step are heard een now within the camp!
The clang of bells, the bugle call, tramp of steeds and hurrying feet,
The ponderous artillery thundering down the crowded street;
The myriad flags, the shouts, the songs, Beautys proud and bright array,
The stars and stripes from countless masts floating far adown the bay!
The greetings so fraternal borne sweetly on the air,
The gatherings round the altars, the solemn voice of prayer;
While high oer all the anthem peal of LIBERTY is heard,
Tell how deeply, tell how gloriously, the nations soul is stirred.
O God! the grandeur of this hour hath neer been seen on earth
Since, storm-rocked in old Faneuil Hall, fair Freedom had her birth-
Since her beacons flamed at midnight, and at sound of signal horn
The yeomen went to Concord on that other April morn!
The cold, dead Northern heart hath burst, and from its hot depths pour
The festering wrongs of weary years, like waves on Memorys shore;
The blows that fell on SUMNER, by New England unforgiven,
The outrage and the murders, and the insults piled to Heaven.
The tramp of marching legions, the crash of thousand drums,
And cannons thunder, mark the hour whence Retribution comes!
And the Northern States, like giants, southward move in awful form,
With the forces of all NATURE, and GOD behind the storm!
The loathsome monster ye have dragged up from its slimy lair,
To be your fitting emblem, insulting Gods free air,
Shall fall! and neath the Northern heel be crushed its crested head,
Ere yet along the slave land is hushed the Yankees tread.
Too long our flag hath waved above the slavers cursed marts;
Too long the man-thief mocked with it the hopes of human hearts;
Take it now from neath his trampling, over Southern field and flood,
Bear it on till ye have washed it all spotless in his blood!
Ere that flag again home cometh, or is hushed the Northern drum,
Every shackle shall be broken, and the SLAVE'S REDEMPTION COME!
Dissembling Compromise no more shall rear her serpent form,
For the forces of all NATURE and GOD are with the storm.
The Scotsman from his heather hills, the Emerald Islands sons,
The German from the Rhine-banks, Garibaldis chosen ones,
All who would crush Oppression in the field or on the throne,
March with us, and the Old World's heart beats kindly against our own!
Ocean-deep be buried party feuds, broken every party band;
Let each heart keep wide open door, each strong hand grasp a hand!
Let by-gones all be by-gones, pass around the olive-branch!
Then down upon the traitors like the Alpine avalanche!
Heaven and Earth are gazing on us; God begirt us with His power!
We crowd the hopes of centuries into this passing hour;
Skyward fling the starry banner which shall nevermore be furled!
WERE MARCHING FOR HUMANITY! WE STRIKE FOR ALL THE WORLD!
Peterboro, Madison Co., N. Y., May 8, 1861.

The Liberator.
A SERMON ON OUR CIVIL WAR.
Preached at Syracuse, May 5, 1861.
BY SAMUEL J. MAY.
JEREMIAH 34: 17.-Thus saith the Lord: Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine.
"I tremble for my country," said Mr. Jefferson, when I reflect that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever." That sleep has passed. Retribution has begun its work. A terrible punishment for our sins is now upon us. Never have a people so wantonly provoked the vengeance of the Almighty. That vengeance is now made manifest in the natural consequences of oppression, fraud, compromise. These iniquities have abounded throughout our land; have been the seeds of this harvest of evils, which we are now about to gather in. Southern slaveholders, it is true, have been the principals in our national transgression; but the Northern people have been their accomplices to such an extent, that we can hardly claim to be less guilty. Our selfish merchants, willing to get gain out of the unrequited toil of poor bondmen and bondwomen, who, they knew, were held and treated like cattle; our godless politicians, who have cared for nothing but the ascendancy of their parties, and their personal aggrandizement; more than all, the timid, time-serving ministers and churches in our free States, who, for fear of alienating their affiliated sectarians in the slave States, have shut their eyes to the wrongs, their ears to the cries of the oppressed,-and have suborned even the Bible, the Scriptures of the New Testament as well as the Old, to justify slavery; these all have conspired so to deaden the humane feelings, and deprave the political and religious sentiments of Northern people, that, for the last forty years, that peculiar institution," which, as John Wesley, eighty years ago, said, comprises the sum of all villanies, has been sustained as much by the power of the free as by that of the slave States. Our whole nation, then, is verily guilty before God; and, in his righteous providence, we are now to be chastised. Having perversely refused to walk by that glorious light which was radiated from Heaven on our nation at her birth; having rejected the counsels of the wisest and best of the men who laid the foundations of our Republic; having killed the prophets, and stoned those who, from time to time, have been sent to rebuke us for our wickedness, and forewarn us of the wrath to come,-we are now left to punish each other in a civil war, the most terrible infliction that a nation can suffer; which will last God only can fore-see how long, or in what manner it will end. We cannot, without impiety, invoke Him, as our partizan or patron in this conflict, for the weapons of our warfare are not spiritual, but carnal,-some of them, I fear, will be devilish.
Many there are who say, the necessity of fighting in such a cause as the present shows that war cannot be always wrong. It is the last dread resort, they insist, which must be sometimes approved, as well as permitted by God. The New York Independent, of April 18th, said, The first gun fired at Fort Sumter scattered to the winds the theories of the Peace Society." Not by any means; far otherwise. I am confident the horrible experiences we shall have, daring and after the war into which we are now plunged, will teach us more convincingly than the ablest, most eloquent discourses on the subject have done, that war is a consummate folly, as well as a most glaring violation of the laws of that heavenly kingdom which Christ came to establish on earth. This war, unavoidable as it now seems, might have been averted, if the right means had been used in due time; therefore neither party can engage in it without sin as well as suffering. Who can doubt that, if the framers of our Constitution had steadfastly refused to insert the compromises demanded by South Carolina and Georgia, this calamity would not have come upon us? Who
<c03>
can doubt that, if the philanthropists of our country, when they had effected the suppression of the slave trade in 1808, had persisted in their labors to obtain the abolition of slavery, this root of our present bitterness would have been exterminated? Who, that can remember the state of our country in 1820, when the Missouri Compromise was made, does not feel sure that it would have been incomparably easier; then than now, to bring the Southern slaveholders to acquiesce in the non-extension of slavery, and that by restricting it then we should have suffocated it before to-day? Who will deny that, if the great ecclesiastical bodies in the Northern States had continued faith-fully bearing their impressive testimonies against the sin of slaveholding, and had withheld their fellowship from those who persisted in it, very many would have repented; and the inconsistency of slaveholding with a good Christian character would have become the dominant sentiment of the American Church? Who can doubt that, if the Domestic Missionary Societies, mainly supported by Northern religionists, had strictly required the ministers of all their beneficiary churches in the Southern States to refrain from the slightest participation in the sin of slavery, and fearlessly to reprove all of their hearers whom they should find guilty of it; and, if the American Bible Society had diligently sought out the objects of their beneficence among the colored population South as well as North of Mason and Dixon's line, among the enslaved as the free; more than either, if the great American Tract Society had been especially careful to spread before their millions of readers exact exhibitions of the giant iniquity of the land, faithful reproofs of it, and solemn warnings of the punishments that would come upon those who would not cease to do this unparalleled wrong; if all the religious periodicals, (to say nothing of the secular, though they ought also to be the advocates of all righteousness,) but if only the professedly religious periodicals-the most popular of which, of every denomination, are published in the free States- had sedulously contended for the right of all men to liberty; if, I say, all these ecclesiastical, religious, moral instrumentalities had been vigorously wielded in the service of God and humanity, (as the Peace Society for more than forty, and the Anti-Slavery Society for more than thirty years, have entreated that they might be wielded,) who can doubt that the redemption of the slave would long ago have crowned their efforts? True, there might have been controversies, earnest, angry, violent, possibly a few might have suffered martyrdom; but, standing on the vantage ground of the Declaration of Independence and the American Revolution, the devoted advocates of the inalienable rights of men must have triumphed in their spiritual conflicts, as I trust they will in the carnal battles, which are now unavoidable.
Now, therefore, I submit, will the people of the North, who might by these peaceful means have accomplished the deliverance of the oppressed from their crushing yoke, and the redemption of the oppressors from their tremendous iniquity, will the people of the North be guiltless of the murders and other crimes inseparable from this civil war? We shall see that they will not. If heavy pecuniary losses, ruined healths, untimely deaths, desolated homes and broken hearts are ever the punishments of sin, what ought we to account them, when incurred in a war which might have been averted, if the millions of people in the land, who profess to be believers in the Prince of Peace, had followed his precepts, and manifested his spirit?
Hundreds of millions of dollars will now be expended in subjugating the slaveholding oligarchy by force and arms. Thousands, it may be tens of thousands of our youth and stalwart men are to be killed, or maimed, or crippled for life; as many more will return with their physical constitutions hopelessly impaired, or, worse still, their moral characters utterly depraved. Will these be expressions of the divine approval of the terrible work, to which we are now called to put our hands? The Hon. D. S. Dickinson says of this war, in that speech of his at New York, which is resounding through the land like the bugle-blast of the Highland chieftain-"It may ruin this generation, but we owe it to the next that they should have no such trouble as we have had." I rejoice that that prominent Democratic statesman sees so clearly the end to which this deadly conflict must be pressed. And I could reconcile myself to the appalling price he intimates we may have to pay, even the ruin of this generation, for the inestimable benefit of our posterity, if we could see it to be necessary-a part of the divine economy. But when I look back through the history of our nation, and see how often how much might have been done, by Christian, peaceful means to rid our land of slavery, the source of all this woe, I cannot but regard the sufferings we are to incur, as well as those we shall inflict in this war, as punishments of the sin of which we have been unitedly guilty; and the crimes we shall commit in this war as not to be atoned for by the good which it may accomplish. These sufferings, these crimes might have been spared, if only, for the last thirty years, right, peaceful, Christian means had been faithfully applied to prevent the calamity which is now upon us. Such means would have ensured the solution of that stupendous problem, which it was given to the Christians of our country to solve by the powers of faith and love. A solution thus obtained would have been far more gracious and genial to the four million victims of our oppression, as well as to those who have been guilty of holding them in bondage, and to those who effected their deliverance. But the American Church, instead of having been the arm of the Lord" in the redemption of his people, allowed itself to be come the bulwark, behind which their oppressors have been protected.
In the Providence of God, a great, a glorious work was given to the Christians of this Republic to do for the least of the brethren." It was a work which, in a country like ours, could not be indefinitely postponed. The way in which it could be done, peaceably and advantageously for all concerned, was plainly indicated, and frequent and earnest have been the entreaties of the prophets, and their warnings to those who would hinder or refuse to help the work. But the people of the land have not given heed. Their ministers and priests, not less than their political leaders, have scouted the claims of humanity, and ridiculed the way of peace." Therefore are they now left to their own devices. They have thrown away the sword of the Lord; they have rejected his counsels. Now, then, they have naught to trust to but carnal weapons and the arm of flesh. They must depend, in this warfare, not upon the arm of the Lord and the influence of his Spirit, but upon swords and muskets, and the skill with which they shall be wielded.
Doubtless the people of the free States have still the balance of right greatly on their side; and, if the enthusiasm with which they have responded to the war cry can be trusted, their triumph is certain. Never did a whole people seem to be so promptly, so thoroughly roused. The sentiment of patriotism comes warmly from every mouth. The determination to do, what our country now requires, flashes from every eye. Old men as well as young are eager to repel and punish the rebels, who have assailed the General Government, and threaten its overthrow. The women are even more vehement than the men in their demands for summary and condign retribution. All classes of society, the rich and poor, the humble and the exalted, the wise and the ignorant, some of the most virtuous and many of the most vicious have joined hands in hearty resolve to quench in blood this foul rebellion, and to exterminate the root of this bitterness against freemen and all liberty. Churches, in which not a word was allowed to be said, not a prayer even to be breathed for the deliverance of the oppressed, now fling out from their towers, or drape their pulpits and communion-tables with that flag which can never be furled again in peace, until every yoke is broken, every slave in our borders set free. Hundreds of ministers, who hitherto have not touched the heavy burden of our land even with so much as one of their fingers, now offer their whole bodies to
<c04>
be sacrificed, if need be, in this contest, which has arisen from the violation of the rights of negro men. And some (shame that any such there ever were!) Rev. gentlemen, Drs. of Divinity, who erewhile volunteered in defence of the peculiar institution" of the South, now see nothing so sacred in its rights that the salvation of our United States and the grand principles of Republicanism should be imperilled for its sake. Indeed, the unequalled arrogance, barbarous cruelty, base treachery, and at last open rebellion of the slaveholding oligarchy, have alienated from them the people of the free States so entirely, that it is scarcely possible now to find one among us so poor, so mean, as to do them any reverence. Their late partizans are among their most exasperated opponents; so that it is to be feared these rebels will find too little mercy. I have heard, even from ministers, barbarous threats, horrible execrations, that I would have my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth forever, sooner than I would utter them.
This prompt and unanimous uprising of the people of every State not cursed by slavery, reveals that there is yet a spirit in the land which ensures the preservation of our civil liberties, and the perpetuity of a Federal Republican government north of Mason and Dixon's line, if not indeed embracing all the States. The lavish hand with which the people have given and loaned their money, and volunteered their personal services to carry on this war, is an emphatic testimony of the public confidence in the government of the country, and a guaranty of the sufficiency of the voluntary system as a dependence in an emergency. Despots and monarchs may now see, that when a free people find their country has need, that need will be supplied without coercive measures to obtain it This day, then, which in one aspect is so dark, so gloomy, in another aspect is bright, gloriously bright, illuminated by the revelation, that there is a free North," sensible of its rights, conscious of its duties; that the people of these States have patriotic hearts, hearts glowing with the love of country, more than with the love of money, which has so long seemed to be their ruling passion; that with all our past political and sectional divisions, we are fundamentally a united people, and that it only needs an occasion like the present to show that we are one. I verily believe we shall come out of this conflict more united than we have ever been; that hereafter our political divisions will not be so broad or deep as they were; certainly there will not be any more a pro-slavery party in our free States.
I lament that the people did not see long ago what is now self-evident to every one, that liberty and slavery cannot dwell together; that no compromises can so adjust their claims, no constitution so define their rights, that they can be at peace in the same country, if indeed on the same continent. I mourn that the people of the North have not heeded their prophets, those who have been sent in the good providence of God to admonish them of their danger, and lead them by peaceable, Christian means to a safe deliverance. But I rejoice to find that they were not wholly dead to liberty; and now that they have been roused from their strange unconsciousness of danger, roused by the report of those guns at Charleston, which proclaimed American slaveholders to be, what they have often been called, the deadly enemies of all true freedom, the people of the North are found standing together, without distinction of party, Democrats and Republicans, shoulder to shoulder in a portentous array, ready, ay, impatient to do, to dare, to sacrifice, and to suffer, in defence of our free institutions, and, (as they will find it needs must be,) in the overthrow of slavery.
Deeply as, you know, I am interested in the grand result to which this civil war may lead, I cannot personally take part in its battles. If my age and lack of physical vigor did not preclude me, the spirit I have imbibed from the Son of God, whose disciple and minister I have earnestly sought to be, would unnerve my arm, if I should grasp a deadly weapon. Neither can I exhort or counsel others to go into this war. But I shall not hinder any, whose sense of duty may impel them thither Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind." I shall ardently hope that the States which have rebelled against our General Government, (only too indulgent to them from the beginning,) may be conquered-thoroughly subdued, and their peculiar institution," the source of our great national sin and woe, be utterly subverted, abolished forever. Therefore I would not, if I could, hold back any, who are eager for this conflict, and can go into it conscientiously.
But let me entreat all, who will heed my counsel, to be more patient than too many are, with the delays that must beset so vast a movement as our General Government has been suddenly called to make, under the most perplexing circumstances. Yes, suddenly called. It is only two months since the present Administration came into power, but a power well-nigh stripped of its instruments. For, by treachery, unparalleled in the history of nations, the occupants of some of the highest departments under the previous Administration had emptied the Treasury; removed the arms and munitions of war from Northern arsenals to depositories in the rebellious States; had scattered the navy, or dismantled it; and so distributed the army over our vast domains, that it could not be collected at any one point within the time that has elapsed since it was needed at Washington. But more embarrassing even than all this, the new President had come to the head of a divided nation. The extent of that division he did not know. A large party in the free States had been active co-workers with the slaveholders, in opposition to his election. To what lengths the sympathy of Northern Democrats with the Southern would carry them could not be at once ascertained. Not until the actual attack upon Fort Sumter did it appear that their patriotism was stronger than their adhesion to their party; that, much as they had opposed his election, they would resolutely stand by the Chief Magistrate of the nation, in his maintenance of his government, and the suppression of a rebellion. Not until then was it known that the people of the free States, though divided in politics and religion, are united in love of country. Not until then (and that was only four weeks ago) could our Federal Government begin to put forth the arm of its strength. And since then, see how much has been accomplished! It were presumption in any person, who is not of the Cabinet at Washington, to say that more or better could have been done, under the circumstances. Nor should any impatiently demand to know the plans of operation, until they, who alone can direct, see fit to disclose them. Let us hear no more of superseding him who is Commander-in-Chief of our Republic. To do this, would be to subvert the supreme power of our nation, and give us up to anarchy, which culminates in despotism. He who presses such a proposal, should be accounted worse than a secessionist. No, let the people rally round their Chief Magistrate, and assure him of their support in this trying hour. Let them hold up the hands of their Abraham as the Jews of old held up the hands of their Moses, until the Amalekites shall have been again utterly discomfited.
Now that this terrible rebellion has broken out, which might have been averted by peaceable, Christian means long ago applied; now that we are left of the God of love to put it down in wrath by violence and bloodshed, it is the dictate of mercy, as well as good policy, to go upon the rebels with an overwhelming force. If an army be sent barely large enough to subdue them, the conflict will be fierce, prolonged and sanguinary. But if the rebel States find themselves assailed at their most vulnerable points, by forces too large for them to cope with, they will make comparatively slight resistance; the war will sooner be over; lives will be saved; and the diabolical spirit of revenge, which grows more cruel the longer a conflict is continued, will be hardly aroused. The free States, having easily subdued their enemies, will be more disposed to deal with them mercifully; having made them feel their power, they will make them also sensi-
The faith and feelings which I cherish on this subject, and have had since 1825, I owe, under Christ, to the venerable Noah Worcester. They are fully set forth in my Address to the American Peace Society, May 28th, 1860.
<c05>
ble of their magnanimity. Giants can afford to be more generous than dwarfs. Then the people of the free States ought to be very merciful to the slaveholders, notwithstanding their baseness, treachery, rebellion, because our indulgence of them has spoiled them; our acquiescence in their wrong-doing has lessened their consciousness of its heinousness; and our compromises with them have made us partners in the iniquity that has brought this calamity upon them as well as ourselves.
I trust it is the intention of our national Executive to put forth all the strength it will require to crush this rebellion easily as well as effectually. It must take time to gather the requisite forces, and provide for their comfortable maintenance; more time than any can know so well as they who have the supervision of the whole matter. Instead therefore of complaining of the tardiness of the Executive, creating a dissatisfaction which may sap its strength, let the people of the free States prepare themselves to furnish the troops and provisions which they foresee may be required of them, so that when other thousands are called for they may come, trained and equipped, as promptly as did the regiments of Massachusetts at the first call for help.
Again, we may not forget that there will be heavy losses, much suffering, many deaths incurred in this war. War is not a divinely-appointed means for the subversion of wrong, or the maintenance of right. There is no heavenly panoply encasing those who go to battle, though it be for liberty. God vouchsafes no especial protection to soldiers, even in the most justifiable war. They are left to be provided for and protected, as best they may be, by themselves, each other, and earthly friends. Let therefore nothing be withheld by those who stay at home, to aid and comfort those who go into this terrible conflict. Let us give our money freely to furnish suitable clothing and food to those, who are going to endure the privations, hardships, dangers of camp life. Let us wear our old garments, as long as decency will permit, and practice all economies that may be necessary, to enable us to contribute as much as possible to make our soldiers as comfortable as they can be, away from their homes, and in the tented field.
Moreover, we are bound to relieve, so far as we can, their anxiety about the loved ones they leave behind. We should bid them go, in the full assurance that at least the customary, reasonable wants of their aged parents, over-burthened wives and dependent children shall be well supplied. To guard against impostors, who, with wicked ones of all sorts, abound in time of war we should inform ourselves and each other of all within our borders, who have been dependents of those who have gone from our midst. For all such there should be, so far as they may need, a constant and sufficient provision. In this department, I can and will do my full share, and more, without any scruples of conscience. How long this terrible calamity is to last, the Omniscient Eye alone can foresee. Therefore, prudence and economy, as well as benevolence, should preside over our bestowments. Let all be done that should be done; nothing to waste or show.
Blessed be God, this fratricidal war must have an end. What that end shall be we may, in some measure, if not wholly, determine. This conflict did not come by chance. It is not an accident. The cause of it is obvious. It has long been foreseen and foretold. It is the evil fruit of that strange vine-slavery -which was permitted by our too short-sighted fathers to entwine itself with the very roots of that noble tree of Liberty, which they planted with so much toil, and watered with so much blood. Like an ill weed, it has grown apace. It has overtopped that noble tree, has spread itself out upon all the branches thereof, diffusing its pestiferous influences throughout the land, until the very atmosphere of our country has been so tainted by it, that, in some sections, no free man could live.
Now, my countrymen, under the misguidance of our politicians and statesmen, and with the acquiescence of most of the ministers of religion, have we not borne this evil long enough? Lo! these eighty years have we endured it. Have we not borne with it, until forbearance ceased to be a virtue, if, in this case, it were ever justifiable? Have we not made one concession after another to the demands of the managers of this mighty system of iniquity? Have we not compromised the very vital principle on which the foundations of our civil fabric were avowedly and solemnly laid? And what has been gained? Nothing but increased and increasingly arrogant demands from those we have sought to conciliate, until at length, maddened because the people of the free States would not place in their hands, forever, the government of the Republic, suffer them to introduce their accursed, blighting system of slave labor into the virgin territories of the North-west, and insinuate it again, perhaps, into the States which long since abolished it,-maddened, because at the last presidential election they were given to understand that they had reached the limit of their encroachments, that their sway should not be absolute and entire-they have actually clutched at the throat of our Republic, and avowed their determination to strangle it in its very Capital.
Now, my countrymen, what ought obviously to be the end of this civil war, which they have forced upon the free States by such an impious assault on all civil liberty-the theory and the practice of self-government? What less should it be than the utter extermination from our land of that which has been the source of all this madness, and of the dire calamity it has brought upon our country? If this war shall be allowed to end, and a fibre of the root of slavery be left in our soil, the war will be an abortion, though every battle should be crowned with victory, and the armies of the South be routed utterly. But I trust in God, that all we are to suffer and to sacrifice in this war, for the sins which have brought it upon us, will not be for naught:. It is, I trust, to be the end of slavery!
And when that end is accomplished, and the war is over, I pray that those who survive may penitently gather up and record, for all future generations to learn, the lessons which it will have taught,-
That slavery is a wrong, which humanity cannot endure, and God will not tolerate;
That war is not the divinely appointed means for the redress of human wrongs, or the maintenance of human rights;
And, that compromise is the satan, the devil, that brought this dread calamity upon our nation.

SPIRITUALISM.
MR. GARRISON,-I see by the Liberator, that Parker Pillsbury speaks disparagingly of Spiritualism, on account of some pro-slavery articles in the Herald of Progress, which articles, if not endorsed, were not condemned by the editor of that journal.
I am a radical Abolitionist, and also a Spiritualist, and as such must protest against any such sweeping statements, to the effect that Spiritualists are unfavorable or indifferent to the cause of Abolition. That is a spurious Spiritualism which does not embrace the doctrine of freedom for every human being, and in every department of life. That there are thousands of so-called Spiritualists who exhibit no clear conception of spirituality, or appreciation of human rights, is undeniably true, but that there are also thousands who are Spiritualists in character and principle, as well as in name, is also true. Let not these be condemned because the name Spiritualist is also applied to a class of soulless sectarians, whose only claim to it is that they believe in table tippings.
FRANCIS BARRY.
Berlin Heights, Ohio, April 7th, 1861.
The Austrian Diet has determined that women shall have the right to vote in the election of its members. Here's a change! Formerly, Austria used to whip her women for taking part in politics, and now she confers upon them powers which they do not have in the most liberally-governed nations of the world.
<c06>
WENDELL PHILLIPS
[From the Boston Investigator.]
MR. EDITOR,-Having heard Wendell Phillips myself, at the time he is alleged by your correspondent W. G to have made an abusive remark about Atheists, I beg leave to offer a few words, expressive of my own opinion in respect to that affair. I have known Mr. P. for some twenty years or more, and have read all his speeches, and heard all his lectures, as far as I was able to do so, during this length of time.
It is true that Mr. Phillips, like some other good men, was educated a sectarian,and, in years past, his brilliant talents may have been more or less warped by the influences peculiar to the old theology. And yet, during all this time, it is certain that he has been steadily progressing in the direction of Mental Freedom. His goodness, his truthfulness, and his integrity of character, place him in the front rank among Natures nobleman; and, had I the power, I would cover his name with immortal honor for that discourse pronounced by him in Music Hall, on Sunday, April 21, 1861.
In that discourse, I am sure Mr. Phillips made no allusion to Atheists, as a class; but he used the term rather to signify the hypocrisy of a class of tyrannical knaves, who professed to believed in a God that required them to do certain acts; but which, in refusing to do, they showed that they did not believe as they professed to, and hence they were hypocritical. The argument comes to this, as to whether a speaker who is addressing an audience of professed Christians, shall not be justified in proving that certain other persons are not Christians, and cannot be Christians, because they are Atheists? 
To Atheists, as a class of people, Mr. Phillips never alluded at all; and hence it seems to me un just to charge him with having abused them Wendell Phillips is a friend to the cause of Mental Freedom, if that cause has a friend among all the men I ever knew; and I am sure he never designed to make any invidious remarks in respect to any class of Seeptics, as such, in the discourse criticised by your correspondent. 
It would be precisely the same, had Mr. Phillips attempted to show that a certain class, who called themselves Presbyterians, were not Presbyterians but Methodists. Suppose, indeed, he were to say such conduct is knavish and Methodistical; that is, it is not Presbyterian-it is knavish and Methodistical; thus proving the hypoerisy of the parties, while no opinion is expressed as to the merits of any form of faith, or the merit of it in Atheists.
All honor to Wendell Phillips, for the untold service he has rendered the great cause of Mental Freedom! I would, myself, gladly part with all my fame for thirty years past, could I thereby rightfully share even a moiety of that now so justly yielded, by a grateful people, to this excellent man., for the services rendered by him within a few months past to the cause of Free Speech. I wish we had a few more full grown men among us, like Wendell Phillips. LAROY SUNDERLAND.
Boston, May 3, 1861.
A truthful and just view of the case.-Ed. Lib.]
A SHIPMASTERS TREATMENT AT NORFOLK.
WEST DENNIS, MAY 4,1861.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
Permit me to give you a little sketch of the proceedings of the secessionists or pirates of Norfolk, Va. I am the master of schooner Sprightling Sea, of Dennis, Mass., which arrived in Norfolk, April 20, from New York. It being early in the morning, it was very quiet, and I commenced to discharge. At 1 oclock, P. M., the citizens were thrown into a high excitement, and commenced to seize Northern vessels, and sink them in the channel for a blockade. I thought it time for me to leave. I cast off and left; but the wind being light, and tide ahead, I did not get far before I was ordered back, till further orders, by Lieut. Sharp. I did so, and lay until Sunday morning, the 21st. At 8 A. M., the steam-tug Younaluska came along side. Lieut. Sharp and other commanding officers bade me cast off my lines, and gave me fifteen minutes to pick up my things and leave, which I did. As I had a friend there, I proceeded to his house with my things, with two of my men. On returning to where the vessel had been lying, to get my other two men, I found they had been pressed and taken off to work, and the secessionists were looking for the rest of us. I thought it time for me to get out of the way. I went to my friend's, and kept out of sight till I got a chance to get away, as the house was watched very close. I had landed but half my cargo when the vessel was taken, which consisted of general merchandize; neither could I collect any freight on what I did land, as no one would pay any bills, and all were apparently crazy. I left in a wrecking schooner, as good luck had put her in the way, and she got a permit to pass out, by being searched. As we were well stowed away, they did not find us, and I left there with twenty-five cents in my pocket. We left the wrecking schooner in our boat, which I saved, in Chesapeake Bay, and were picked up by the schooner Fairfax, of New York, Capt. Mott, from Georgetown, Va., bound to New York, where we landed, Monday, 29th ult., once more in a land of freedom, where the stars and stripes yet wave. We then took passage in the Metropolis, Capt. Brown, who gave us our passage to Fall River, and then interceded for us the remainder of our route to West Dennis. To him I owe many thanks, as I was without money.
I have been at Charleston, S. C., and to many other Southern ports, since February, but never saw such piratical work before as was manifested at Norfolk and on the Virginia coast.
CAPT. J. MYRICK,
of Schooner Sprightling Sea.
INCIDENTS OF THE REBELLION.
MORE FUGITIVES Among the fugitives from the slave States, brought in by last evenings train, was a lady who is now at the seminary, on Kinsman street. She left the seminary in February last, and went to Memphis as a teacher, and at the urgent invitation of an influential and wealthy friend long resident there. Fearing long to remain, she has left kind friends, and a good salary, and rejoices to stand on free soil, and breathe a free air, without fear of butchery or starvation. She confirms the statements that the people of the South are perfectly confident of conquering the North; that they think we find it difficult to raise an army here; that the taking of Washington, and vanquishing the cowardly, cold-blooded Northerners, who have been made what they are, in point of property, by Southern money, and who now ungratefully talk of raising their puny arm against those to whom they owe everything, will be an easy task. She says that what the people at the South chiefly fear is famine. She has heard many of the prominent men of the State say that there are not in all the South provisions enough to last six months, and that they cannot control the slaves without a full supply of provisions. Families are already anxiously laying in stores, and putting themselves on short allowance, in anticipation of the dreaded famine. Multitudes are leaving for the North, for plenty and safety from the anticipated rising of the slaves, if they should not completely conquer the North before the pinchings of hunger reach the slave population.-Cleveland Herald, 2d inst.
MORE OUTRAGES IN MISSOURI. Mr. Bidwell, a member of the Society of Friends, and well known to many of the citizens of Rochester as an industrious and thriving gardener, removed, with his family, to a place some twenty-five miles distant from Jefferson City, Missouri, where he has been engaged in the peaceful pursuit of horticulture. Mr. Bidwell says, recently, while he was engaged in transplanting grape-vines, he was called upon by two men, armed with revolvers, who required him to go to his house with them. He found on arrival eight other men, well armed with revolvers and Arkansas toothpicks. Here he was arraigned before that dignified personage. Judge Lynch, who very soon decreed that Mr. Bidwell would be required to leave the State within ten days. One of the female members of the family demurred at this summary process of ejectment, whereupon she was very gruffly informed by his honor to keep very quiet, or she would be strung up by the neck. There is no higher tribunal for an appeal in Missouri, at present, so Mr. Bidwell complied with the order of the court, and is now stopping with his friends in Rochester. Many persons are leaving for the free States, and even some of the families of Missourians themselves are fleeing from the wrath to come.-Rochester Democrat.
