THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXXI. NO. 49.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1615.
Selections.
<c01>
THE REBELLION:
ITS ORIGIN AND MAINSPRING.
ADDRESS OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
Before the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, Nov. 25, 1861.
[On being presented to the crowded auditory, the eloquent Senator was greeted with rounds of applause, long continued. When silence was obtained, he spoke as follows:]
Really, Boston is herself again! To-night, this large, brimming audience will listen to me. To-morrow night another will listen to Henry Ward Beecher; and the night after, still another will listen to Wendell Phillips-all of us on the same theme, and with one inspiring object in view. But they are orators, unsurpassed in our country. I can only speak to you sincerely and plainly, and throw myself upon your kind indulgence.
[Mr. Sumner then proceeded as follows, frequently interrupted by hearty applause:]
FELLOW CITIZENS: In the presence of such an audience-assembled for no purpose of party or even of polities, in the ordinary sense of that term-I incline naturally to some topic of literature-of history-of science-of art-to something at least which makes for Peace. But at this moment when our whole continent is beginning to shake with the tread of mustering armies, the voice refuses any such theme. The ancient poet, longing to sing of Achilles and the house of Atreus, found that he could only sing of love, and he snatched from his lyre its bloody string. Alas! for me the case is all changed. I can speak to you only of War; but do not forget that if I speak of War, it is because unhappily War has become to us the only way of Peace.
The Present is too apt to appear trivial and unimportant while the Past and Future are grand. Rarely do men know the full significance of the period in which they live, and we are all inclined to sigh for something better in the way of opportunity-such as was given to the hero of the Past, or such as our imagination allots to the better hero of the Future. But there is no occasion for such repining now. There is nothing in the Past-and it is difficult to imagine anything in the Future-more inspiring than our Present. Even with the curtain yet slightly lifted, it is easy to see that events are now gathering, which, in their development, must constitute the third great epoch in the history of this Western Hemisphere;-the first being its discovery by Christopher Columbus, and the second being the American Revolution. And now it remains to be seen if this epoch of ours may not surpass in grandeur either of its two predecessors, so that the fame of the Discoverer and the fame of the Liberator-of Columbus and of Washington-may be eclipsed by the mild effulgence beaming from an act of god-like Justice, which, within its immediate influence, will create a new heaven and a new earth, while in other lands its life-giving example will be felt-so long as men struggle for rights denied; so long as any human being wears a chain.
War is always an epoch. Unhappily, history counts by wars. Of these, some have been wars of ideas-like that between the Catholics and Huguenots in France; between the Catholics and Protestants in Germany; between the arbitrary crown of Charles 1. and the Puritanism of Oliver Cromwell; and like that between our fathers and the mother country, when the Declaration of Independence was put in issue. Some have originated in questions of form, some in the contentions of families, some in the fickleness of princes, and some in the machinations of politicians. England waged war on Holland, and one of the reasons openly assigned was an offensive picture in the Town Hall of Amsterdam. France hurled her armies across the Rhine, carrying fire and slaughter into the Palatinate, and involving great nations in a most bloody conflict, and all this wickedness has been traced to the intrigue of a Minister, who sought in this way to divert the attention of his Sovereign. But we are now in the midst of a war, which, whatever may be the reasons assigned by the unhappy men who began it, or by those who sympathize with them elsewhere, has an origin so clear and definite as to be beyond question. Ideas are sometimes good and sometimes bad; and there may be a war for evil as well as for good. Such was that earliest rebellion waged by fallen spirits against the Almighty Throne; and such also is that now waged by the fallen slave-masters of our Republic against the National Government.
If you will kindly listen, I shall now endeavor to unmask this Rebellion, in its Origin and Mainspring. It is only when these are known that yon can determine how the Rebellion is to be treated. Your efforts will naturally be governed by the character of the adverse force-whether regarded as a motive power or as a disease. A steam-engine is stopped at once by stopping the steam. A ghastly cancer which has grappled the very fibres of the human frame, and shot its poison through every vein, will not yield to lip-salve or rose-water.
"Diseases desperate grown
By desperate appliances are relieved,
Or not at all."
On the 6th of November last, the people of the United States, acting in pursuance of the Constitution and laws, chose Abraham Lincoln President. Of course, this choice was in every particular constitutional and legal. As such, it was entitled to the respect and acquiescence of every good citizen. It is in vain to say that the candidate represented opinions obnoxious to a considerable section of the country, or that he was chosen by votes confined to a special section. It is enough that he was duly chosen. You cannot set aside or deny such an election without assailing not only the whole frame-work of the Constitution, but also the primal principle of American Institutions. You become a traitor at once to the existing Government, and also to the very idea of popular rule. You snatch a principle from the red book of Despotism, and openly substitute the cartridge-box for the ballot-box.
And yet scarcely had this intelligence been flashed across the country, before the mutterings of sedition and treason began to reach us from the opposite quarter. The Union was menaced; and here the first distinct voice came from South Carolina. A Senator from that State-one of the largest slaveholders of the country, and a most strenuous partisan of slavery-Mr. Iammond-openly declared, in language not easily forgotten, that before the 18th of December, South Carolina would be "out of the Union high and dry, and forever." These words heralded the outbreak. With the pertinacity of demons, its leaders pushed forward. Their avowed object was the dismemberment of the Republic by
<c02>
detaching State after State, in order to found a slaveholding Confederacy. And here the clearest utterance came from a late Representative of Georgia-Mr. Stephens-now Vice President of the rebel States, who did not hesitate to proclaim ”that the foundations of the new government are laid upon the great truth, that slavery-subordination to the superior race-is the negro's natural and moral condition; that it is the first government in the history of the world, based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth; and that the stone which was rejected by the first builders is in the new edifice become the chief stone of the corner." Here is a savage frankness which shows an insensibility to shame. Surely the object avowed is hideous in every aspect, whether we regard it as treason to our paternal government; as treason to the idea of American Institutions; or as treason also to those commanding principles of economy, morals and Christianity, without which Civilization is changed into Barbarism.
And now we stand face to face in deadly conflict with this double-headed, triple-headed treason. Beginning with those States most peculiarly interested in slavery, and operating always with an intensity proportioned to the prevalence of slavery, it has fastened upon other States less interested-Tennessee-North Carolina-Virginia-and with difficulty has been prevented from enveloping every State containing slaves-no matter how few; for such is the malignant poison of slavery, that only a few slaves will constitute a slave State, with all the sympathies and animosities of slavery. This is the Rebellion which I am to unmask. But bad as it is on its face, it becomes aggravated when we consider its origin, and the agencies by which it has been conducted. It is not merely a Rebellion; but it is a Rebellion begun in Conspiracy; nor in all history, ancient or modern, is there any record of Conspiracy so vast and so wicked, ranging over such spaces both of time and territory, and contemplating such results. A conspiracy to seize a castle or to assassinate a prince is petty by the side of this enormous protracted treason, where half a continent studded with castles, and fortresses, and public edifices, is seized-where the Government itself is overthrown, and where the President on his way to the national Capital narrowly escaped a most cruel assassination.
But no conspiracy could have ripened into such wicked fruit, if it were not rooted in a soil of congenial malignity. To appreciate properly this influence, we must go back to the beginning of the Government.
South Carolina, which has taken so forward a part in this treason, hesitated originally, as is well known, with regard to the Declaration of Independence. Once her vote was recorded against that act; and when it finally prevailed, her vote was given for it only formally, and for the sake of seeming unanimity. But so little was she inspired by the Declaration, that, in the contest which ensued, her Commissioners made a proposition to the British Commander, which has been properly characterized by an able historian as ”equivalent to an offer from the State to return to the British Crown." The same hesitation shown with regard to the Declaration of Independence was renewed with regard to the Federal Constitution; and here it was shared by another State. It is notorious that both South Carolina and Georgia, which with the States carved out of their original territory-Alabama and Mississippi-constitute the chief seat of the conspiracy-hesitated to become parties to the Union, and stipulated expressly for the recognition of the slave trade in the Federal Constitution as an indispensable condition. In the Convention, Mr. Rutledge, of South Carolina, while opposing a tax on the importation of slaves, said: ”The true question at present is, whether Southern States shall or shall not be parties to the Union." Mr. Pinckney, also of South Carolina, followed with the unblushing declaration: South Carolina can never receive the plan [of the Constitution] if it prohibits the slave trade.". I quote now from Mr. Madison's authentic report of these important debates.(See. Elliot's Debates, Vol. V., p. 457.)
With shame let it be confessed, that, instead of repelling this disgraceful overture, our Fathers submitted to it, and in that submission you will find the beginning of our present sorrows. The slave trade, whose aggregate iniquity no tongue can tell, was placed for twenty years under the safeguard of the Constitution, thus giving to slavery itself increased support and sanction. The language was modest, but the intent was complete. South Carolina and Georgia were pacified, and took their places in the Union to which they were openly bound only by a most revolting tie. Regrets for the Past are not entirely useless, if out of them we get wisdom for the Future, and learn to be brave. It is easy now to see that had the unnatural pretension of these States been originally encountered by a stern resistance worthy of an honest people, the present Conspiracy would have been crushed before it saw the light. Its whole success from its distant beginning down to this hour has been from our timidity.
But there was also another sentiment, of a kindred perversity, which prevailed in the same quarter. This is vividly portrayed by John Adams in a letter to Gen. Gates, dated at Philadelphia, 23d of March, 1776:-
"However, my dear friend Gates, all our misfortunes arise from a single source, the resistance of the Southern Colonies to Republican Government."(John Adams's Works, Vol. I., p. 207.)
And he proceeds to declare in strong language that ”popular principles and axioms were abhorrent to the inclinations of the barons of the South." This letter was written in the early days of the Revolution. At a later period of his life, John Adams testifies again to the discord between the North and the South; and he refers particularly to the period after the Federal Constitution, saying: ”The Northern and Southern States were invariably fixed in opposition to each other."(See Letter to James Lloyd, 11th February, 1815, John Adams's Works, Vol. X., p. 19.) This was before any question of Tariff, or of Free Trade, or before the growing fortunes of the North had awakened Southern jealousy. The whole opposition had its root in slavery-as also had the earlier resistance to Republican Government.
In the face of these influences the Union was formed; but the seeds of Conspiracy were latent in its bosom. The spirit already revealed was scarcely silenced; it was not destroyed. It still existed, rankling, festering, burning to make itself manifest. At the mention of slavery, it always appeared full armed with barbarous pretensions. Even in the first Congress under the Constitution-at the presentation of that famous petition where Benjamin Franklin simply called upon Congress to step to the verge of its powers to discourage every species of traffic in our fellow-men-this spirit broke forth in violent threats. With a kindred lawlessness, it early embraced that extravagant dogma of State Rights, which has been ever since the convenient cloak of treason and of conspiracy. At the Missouri Question in 1820, it only menaced a dissolution of the Union. Instead of throttling the monster, we submitted to feed it with new concessions. Meanwhile the Conspiracy
<c03>
grew, until at last in 1830, under the influence <illegible> Mr. Calhoun, it assumed the defiant front of-Nullification; nor did it yield to the irresistible logic of Webster or the stern will of Jackson without a Compromise. The pretended ground of complaint was the Tariff; but Andrew Jackson, himself a patriot slaveholder-at that time President-saw the hollowness of the complaint. In a confidential letter, which has only recently been brought to light, dated at Washington 1st May, 1833-and which during the last winter I had the honor of reading and holding up before the conspirators of the Senate, in the original autograph-he says:-
"The Tariff was only the pretext, and disunion and a Southern Confederacy the real object. The next pretext will be the negro or slavery question,"
Jackson was undoubtedly right; but the pretext which he denounced in advance was employed so constantly afterwards as to become thread-bare. At the earliest presentation of Abolition petitions-at the Texas Question-at the Compromises of 1850-at the Kansas Question-on all these occasions the Union was threatened by the angry slave-masters.
But the Conspiracy has been unblushingly confessed by recent parties to it. Especially was this done in the rebel convention of South Carolina.
Mr. Packer said-"Secession is no spasmodic effort that has come suddenly upon us. It has been gradually culminating for a long series of years."
Mr. Inglis said-"Most of us have had this subject under consideration for the last twenty years."
Mr. Keitt said-"I have been engaged in this movement ever since I entered political life."
Mr. Rhett, who was in the Senate when I first entered that body, and did not hesitate then to avow himself a Disunionists, said-in the same convention-"It is nothing produced by Mr. Lincoln's election or the non-execution of the Fugitive Slave Law. It is a matter which has been gathering head for thirty years."
The Conspiracy thus exposed by Jackson and confessed by recent parties to it, was quickened by the growing passion for slavery throughout the Slave States. The well-known opinions of the Fathers-the declared convictions of all who were most eminent at the foundation of the government, and the example of Washington were all discarded, and it was recklessly avowed that slavery is a divine institution-the highest type of civilization-a blessing to master and slave alike-and the very key-stone of our national arch. A generation has grown up with this teaching, so that it is now ready to say with Satan-
"Evil, be thou my good; by thee at least
Divided empire with heaven's King I hold,
As man ere long, and this new world, shall know."
It is natural that a people thus trained should listen to the voice of Conspiracy. Slavery itself is a constant Conspiracy, and its supporters, whether in the Slave States or elsewhere, easily become indifferent to all rights and principles by which it may be constrained.
But this rage for slavery was itself quickened by two influences, which have shown themselves since the formation of our Union;-one economical, and the other political. The first was found in the unexpected importance of the cotton-crop, which, through the labor of slaves and the genius of a New England inventor, has passed into an extraordinary element of wealth and of imagined strength, so that we have all been summoned to do homage to cotton as king. The second of these influences was found in the temptations of political power-than which no influence is more potent-for it became obvious that this power could be assured to slavery only through the permanent preponderance of its representatives in the Senate; so that the continued control of all offices and honors was made to depend upon the extension of slavery. Thus, through two strong appetites-one for gain and the other for power-was slavery stimulated; but the Conspiracy was strong only through slavery.
But even this Conspiracy, thus supported and nurtured, would have been more wicked than strong, if it had not found perfidious aid in the very Cabinet of the President. The Secretary of the Treasury, a slave-master from Georgia-the Secretary of the Interior, a slave-master from Mississippi-the Secretary of War, the notorious Floyd, a slave-master from Virginia-and I fear, also, the Secretary of the Navy, who was a Northern man with Southern principles-lent their active exertions. Through these eminent functionaries the treason was organized and directed, while their important posts were prostituted to its infamy. Here, again, you see the extent of the Conspiracy. Never before in any country was there a similar crime, which embraced so many persons in the highest places of power, or which took within its grasp so large a theatre of human action. In anticipation of the election of Mr. Lincoln, the Cabinet conspirators had prepared the way for the rebellion.
First. The Army of the United States was so far dispersed and exiled, that the Commander-in-Chief found it difficult, during the recent anxious winter, to bring together a thousand troops for the defence of the national capital, menaced by the conspirators.
Secondly. The Navy was so far dispersed or dismantled, that on the 4th of March, when the new Administration came into power, there were no ships to enforce the laws, collect the revenues, or protect the national property in the rebel ports. Out of 72 vessels of war, then counted as our Navy, it appears that our whole available force at home was reduced to the steamer Brooklyn, carrying 25 guns, and the store ship Relief, carrying 2 guns.
Thirdly. The Forts on the extensive Southern coast were so far abandoned by the public force that the larger part-counting upwards of 1200 cannons, and built at a cost of upwards of six million dollars-became at once an easy prey to the rebels.
Fourthly. National arms were transferred from Northern to Southern arsenals, so as to disarm the Free States and equip the Slave States. This was done on a large scale. Upwards of 115,000 arms, of the latest and most approved patters, were transferred from the Springfield and <illegible> arsenals to different arsenals in the Slave States, where they have been seized by the rebels. And a quarter of a million percussion muskets were sold to various Slave States for $2.50 a musket, when they were worth, it is said, on an average, $12. Large quantities of cannon, mortars, powder, ball and shell received the same direction.
Fifthly. The National Treasury, which, so recently, had been prosperous beyond example, was disorganized and plundered even to the verge of bankruptcy. Upwards of six millions are supposed to have been stolen, and much of this treasure, doubtless, went to help the work of Rebellion.
Thus, even before its outbreak, the Conspiracy contrived to degrade and despoil the Government, so as to secure a free course for the projected Rebellion. The story seems incredible. But it was not enough to disperse the Army-to disperse the Navy-to abandon Forts-to disarm the Free States and to rob the Treasury. The President of the
<c04>
United States, solemnly sworn to execute the laws, was won into a system of inactivity amounting to a practical abdication of his important trust. He saw treason plotting to stab at the heart of his country; he saw Conspiracy daily, hourly, putting on the harness of Rebellion, but, though warned by the watchful Commander-in-Chief, he did nothing to arrest it, standing always,-"like a painted Jove,
With idle thunder in his lifted hand."
Ay, more; instead of those instant lightnings, smiting and blasting in their fiery crash, which an indignant patriotism would have hurled at the criminals, he nodded sympathy and acquiescence. No page of history is more melancholy-because nowhere do we find a ruler who so completely abandoned his country; not Charles I. in his tyranny, not Louis XVI. in his weakness. Mr. Buchanan had been advanced to power by slave masters, who knew well that he could be used for slavery. The slaveholding conspirators were encouraged to sit in his Cabinet, where they doubly betrayed their country, first by evil counsels, and then by disclosing what passed to their distant slaveholding confederates. The sudden act of Major Anderson, in removing from Fort Moultrie to Fort Sumter, and the sympathetic response of an aroused people, compelled a change of policy, and the Rebellion received its first check. It was decided, at last, after a painful struggle, that Fort Sumter should be maintained. It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of that decision, which, I believe, was due mainly to an eminent Democrat-General Cass. This, at least, is true: it saved the National Capital.
Meanwhile, the Conspiracy increased in activity-mastering State after State, gathering its forces and building its batteries. The time had come for the tragedy to begin. ”At Nottingham,” says the great English historian, speaking of King Charles I., ”he erected his royal standard, the open signal of discord and civil war throughout the kingdom." The same open signal now came from Charleston when the conspirators ran up the rattlesnake flag, and directed their wicked cannonade upon the small, half-famished garrison of Sumter.
Were all this done in the name of revolution, or by virtue of any revolutionary principle, it would assume a familiar character. But this is not the case. It is all done under the pretence of constitutional right. The forms of the Constitution are seized by the conspirators-as they have already seized everything else-and wrested to the purposes of treason. It is audaciously declared that, under the existing Constitution, each State in the exercise of its own discretion may withdraw from the Union; and this asserted right of secession is invoked as the cover for a Rebellion begun in Conspiracy. The election of Mr. Lincoln is made the occasion for the exercise of this pretended right. Certain opinions at the North on the subject of slavery are made the pretext.
Who will not deny that this election can be a just occasion?
Who will not condemn the pretext?
But both occasion and pretext are determined by slavery, and thus testify to the part it has constantly performed.
And the pretended right of secession is not less monstrous than the pretext or the occasion; and this, too, testifies to slavery. It belongs to that brood of assumptions and perversions, of which slavery is the prolific parent. Wherever slavery prevails this pretended right is recognized, and generally with an intensity proportioned to the prevalence of slavery; as, for instance, in South Carolina and Mississippi more intensely than in Tennessee and Kentucky. It may be considered a fixed part of the slaveholding system. A pretended right to set aside the Constitution to the extent of breaking up the government, is the natural companion of the pretended right to set aside human nature to the extent of making merchandise of men. They form a well-matched couple, and travel well together,-destined to perish together. If we do not overflow toward the first with the same indignation which we feel for the latter, it is because its absurdity awakens our contempt. An English poet of the last century exclaims in mocking verse,-
" Crowned be the man with lasting praise,
Who first contrived the pin,
To loose mad horses from the chain,
And save the works within."
But this is the impossible contrivance which has been attempted. Nothing is clearer than that this pretension, if acknowledged, leaves to every State the right to play at will ”the mad horse," but with very little chance of saving anything. It takes from the government not merely its unity, but even the possibility of continued existence, and reduces it to the shadow of a name, or at best a mere tenancy at will-an unsubstantial form liable to be decomposed at the touch of a single State. Of course, such an anarchical pretension-so instinct with all the lawlessness of slavery-must be encountered peremptorily. It is not enough to declare our dissent from it. We must see that our conduct is such as not to give it any recognition or foothold.
But instead of scouting this pretension, and utterly spurning it from the Government, new concessions to slavery were gravely propounded as the means of pacification-like a new sacrifice offered to an obscene divinity. It was argued that in this way the Border States at least might be preserved to the Union, and some of the Cotton States, perhaps, be won back to their duty; in other words, that in consideration of these concessions, these States would consent to waive the present exercise of the pretended right of secession. Against all such propositions-without considering their character-there was on the threshold one obvious and imperative objection. It was clear that the very bargain or understanding, whether express or implied, was a recognition of this pretended right, and that a State yielding only to this appeal, and detained through concessions, practically asserts this claim, and holds it for future exercise, tanquam gladium in vagina. Thus a concession, called small, becomes infinite, for it concedes the pretended right of secession, and makes the permanence of the National Government impossible. Amidst all the grave responsibilities of the hour, it belongs to us to take care that the life of the Republic is sacredly preserved. But this would be sacrificed at once, did we submit its existence to the conditions sought to be imposed.
But, looking at the concessions proposed, I have always found them utterly unreasonable and indefensible. I should not expose them now, if they did not constantly testify to the Origin and Mainspring of this Rebellion. Slavery was always the single subject-matter, and nothing else. Slavery was not only an integral part of every concession, but the single integer. "The single idea was to give some new security, in some form, to slavery. That brilliant statesman, Mr. Canning, in one of those eloquent speeches which charm so much by the style, said that he was "tired of being a security-grinder"; but his experience was not comparable to ours. "Security-grinding," in the name of slavery, has
<c05>
been for years the way in which we have encountered this Conspiracy.
The propositions at the last Congress began with the President's Message, which in itself was one long concession. You do not forget his sympathetic portraiture of the disaffection throughout the Slave States, or his testimony to the cause. Notoriously and shamefully his heart was with the conspirators, and he knew intimately the main-spring of their conduct. He proposed nothing short of a general surrender to slavery, and thus did he proclaim slavery as the head and front-the very causal-of the whole crime.
You have not forgotten the Peace Conference-as it was delusively styled-convened at Washington on the summons of Virginia, with John Tyler in the chair, where New York as well as Massachusetts was represented by some of her ablest and most honored citizens. The sessions were with closed doors; but it is now known that, throughout the proceedings, lasting for weeks, nothing was discussed but slavery. And the propositions finally adopted by the Convention were confined to slavery. Forbearing all details, it will be enough to say that they undertook to give to slavery positive protection in the Constitution, with new sanction and immunity-making it, notwithstanding the determination of our Fathers, National, instead of Sectional; and even more than this, making it one of the essential and permanent parts of our Republican System. But slavery is sometimes as deceptive as at other times it is bold; and these propositions were still further offensive from their studied uncertainty, amounting to positive duplicity. At a moment when frankness was needed above all things, we were treated to phrases pregnant with doubts and controversies, and were gravely asked, in the name of slavery, to embody them in the Constitution.
There was another string of propositions, much discussed during the last winter, which bore the name of the venerable Senator from whom they came-Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky. These also related to slavery, and nothing else. They were more obnoxious than even those from the Peace Conference. And yet there were petitioners from the North-and even from Massachusetts-who prayed for this great surrender to slavery. Considering the character of these propositions-that they sought to change the Constitution in a manner revolting to the moral sense; to foist into the Constitution the idea of property in man; to protect slavery in all present territory south of 36 deg. 30 min., and to carry it into all territory hereafter acquired south of that line, and thus to make our beautiful Stars and Stripes in their southern march the flag of slavery; considering that they further sought to give new constitutional securities to slavery in the National Capital and in other places within the exclusive Federal jurisdiction; that they sought to give new constitutional securities to the transit of slaves from State to State, opening the way to a roll-call of slaves at the foot of Bunker Hill or the gates of Faneuil Hall; and that they also sought the disfranchisement of more than 10,000 of my fellow-citizens in Massachusetts, whose rights are fixed by the Constitution of that Commonwealth, drawn by John Adams; considering these things, I felt at the time, and I still feel, that the best apology for these petitioners was, that they were ignorant of the true character of these propositions, and that in signing the petition they knew not what they did. But even in their ignorance they testified to slavery, while the propositions were the familiar voice of Slavery, crying, "Give, give."
There was another single proposition which came from still another quarter, but like all the others it related exclusively to slavery. It was to insert in the text of the Constitution a stipulation against any future amendment by which Congress might be authorized to interfere with slavery in the States. If you read this proposition, you will find it crude and ill-shaped-a jargon of bad grammar-a jumble and hodge-podge of words-calculated to harmonize poorly with the accurate text of our Constitution. But even if tolerable in form, it was obnoxious, like the rest, as a fresh stipulation in favor of slavery. Sufficient surely in this respect is the actual Constitution. Beyond this I cannot-I will not go. What Washington, Franklin and Jay would not insert, we cannot err in rejecting.
I do not dwell on other propositions, because they attracted less attention; and yet among these was one to overturn the glorious safeguards of Freedom set up in the Free States, known as the Personal Liberty Laws. Here again was slavery-with a vengeance. But there is one remark which I desire to make with regard to all these propositions. It was sometimes said that the concessions they offered to slavery were “small." What a mistake is this! No concession to slavery can be “small." Freedom is priceless, and in this simple rule alike of morals and jurisprudence, you will find the just measure of any concession how small so ever, by which Freedom is sacrificed. Tell me not that it concerns a few only. I do not forget the saying of Antiquity, that the best Government is where an injury to a single individual is resented as an injury to the whole State; nor do I forget that memorable instance of our own recent history, where, in a distant sea, the thunders of our Navy with all the hazards of war were aroused to protect the liberty of a solitary person who claimed the rights of an American citizen. By such examples let me be guided rather than by the suggestions that Human Freedom, whether in many or in few, is of so little value that it may be put in the market to appease a traitorous conspiracy or to sooth those who, without such concession, threaten to join the conspirators.
But the warnings of the Past, like the suggestions of reason and conscience, were all against concession. Timid counsels have always been an encouragement to sedition and rebellion. If the glove be of velvet, the hand must be of iron. An eminent master of thought, in some of his most vivid words, seems to have spoken for us. Here they are:-
"To expect to tranquillize and benefit a country by gratifying its agitators, would be like the practice of the superstitious of old, with their sympathetic powder and ointments; who, instead of applying medicaments to the wound, contented themselves with salving the sword which had inflicted it. Since the days of Dane-gelt downwards; nay, since the world was created, nothing but evil has resulted from concession made to intimidation."(What ely's Essays of Bacon. Essay 15, p. 134.)
These words are most applicable to these times, when it has been so often proposed to salve the sword of secession.
In the same spirit spoke the most eminent practical statesman in English history, Mr. Fox. Here are his words:-
"To humor the present disposition and temporize is a certain, absolutely certain confirmation of the evil. No nation ever did or ever can recover from slavery by such methods."(Charles James Fox, Letter to Lord Holland, 18th June, 1804.)
Pardon me if I express a regret, profound and heartfelt, that the pretensions of slavery, whether in its claim of privilege or in its doctrine of seces-
<c06>
sion, were not always encountered boldly and austerely. Alas! it is ourselves that have encouraged the Conspiracy, and made it strong. Secession has become possible only through long-continued concession. In proposing concession we have encouraged secession, and while professing to uphold the Union, we have betrayed it. It seems now beyond question, that the concessionists of the North have, from the beginning, played into the hands of the secessionists of the South. I do not speak in harshness or even in criticism, but simply according to my duty in unfolding historically the agencies, conscious and unconscious, which have been at work, while I hold them up as a warning for the Future. They all testify to slavery, which, from the earliest days, has been at the bottom of the Conspiracy, and also at every stage of the efforts to arrest it. It was slavery which fired the Conspirators, and slavery also which entered into every proposition of compromise. Secession and concession both had their root in slavery.
And now, after this review, I am brought again to the significance of that Presidential election with which I began. The slave-masters entered into that election with Mr. Breckinridge as their candidate, and their platform claimed constitutional protection for slavery in all territories, whether now belonging to the Republic or hereafter acquired. This concession was the ultimatum on which was staked their continued loyalty to the Union-as the continuance of the slave trade had been the original condition on which South Carolina and Georgia had entered into the Union. And the reason, though wicked, was obvious. It was because without such opportunity of expansion slavery would be stationary, while the Free States, increasing in number, would obtain a fixed preponderance in the National Government, assuring to them the political power. Thus, at that election, the banner of the slave-masters had for its open device-not the Union as it is; but the extension and perpetuation of Human Bondage. The popular vote was against further concession, and the conspirators proceeded with their crime. The occasion, so long sought, had come. The pretext, foreseen by Jackson, was the motive power.
But here mark well, that, in their whole conduct, the Conspirators acted naturally under the instincts implanted by slavery; nay, they acted logically, even. Such is slavery, that it cannot exist unless where it owns the government. An injustice so plain can find protection only from a government which is a reflection of itself. Cannibalism cannot exist, except under a government of cannibals. Idolatry cannot exist, except under a government of idolaters. And slavery cannot exist, except under a government of slave-masters. This is positive, universal truth-at Petersburg, Constantinople, Timbuctoo or Washington. The slave-masters of our country saw that they were dislodged from the National Government, and straightway they rebelled. The Republic which they could no longer rule, they determined to ruin.
But though thus audaciously wicked, they are not strong in numbers. The whole quantity of slave-owners, great and small, according to the recent census, is not more than four hundred thousand; out of whom there are not more than one hundred thousand who are interested to any considerable extent in this peculiar species of property; and yet this petty oligarchy-itself controlled by a squad still more petty-in a population of many millions, has aroused and organized this gigantic Rebellion. But this success is explained by two considerations. First, the asserted value of the slaves, reaching to the enormous sum-total of two thousand millions of dollars, constitutes an overpowering property interest-one of the largest in the world; to which may be added the intensity and unity of purpose naturally belonging to the representatives of such a sum-total, stimulated by the questionable character of the property. But, secondly, it is a phenomenon tested by the history of revolutions, that all such movements such movements-at least in their early days-are controlled by minorities. This is because a revolutionary minority once embarked, has before it only the single simple path of unhesitating action. While others doubt or hold back, the minority strikes and goes forward. Audacity, then, counts more than numbers, and crime counts more than virtue. This phenomenon has been observed before. "Often have I reflected with awe," says Coleridge, "on the great and disproportionate power which an individual of no extraordinary talents or attainments may exert by merely throwing off all restraint of conscience. The abandonment of all principle of right enables the soul to choose and act upon a principle of wrong, and to subordinate to this one principle all the various vices of human nature."(Coleridge's Friend, Essay 16.)
These are remarkable words. But a French writer, Condorcet, the philosopher of the French Revolution, who sealed his principles by his death, urged this very phenomenon for a practical purpose. In a pamphlet, addressed to the Parliamentary Reformers of England, he sought to enlist them in a revolutionary movement, and, by way of encouragement, he boldly announces that "revolutions must always be the work of the minority-that every revolution has been the work of a minority-that the French Revolution itself was accomplished by the minority." And Brissot de Warville, another partaker and victim also in this great Revolution, declared that it was carried by not more than twenty men. The declarations were made the subject of a debate, shortly afterward, in the British Parliament, where Sheridan bore a brilliant part. They are most suggestive-even if they do not explain the early success of our conspirators. The future historian will record that the present Rebellion-notwithstanding its protracted origin, the multitudes it has enlisted and its extensive sweep-was at last precipitated by fewer than twenty men; Mr. Everett says by as few as ten. It is certain that, thus far, it has been the triumph of a minority; but of a minority moved, inspired, combined and aggrandized by slavery.
And now this traitorous minority, putting aside all the lurking, slimy devices of Conspiracy, steps forth in the full panoply of War. Assuming to itself all the functions of Government, it organizes States under a common head-sends ambassadors into foreign countries-levies taxes-borrows money-issues letters of marque-and sets armies in the field summoned from distant Georgia, Louisiana and Texas, as well as from nearer Virginia, and composed of the whole lawless population-the poor who cannot own slaves as well as the rich who own them-throughout the extensive region where, with Satanic grasp, this slaveholding minority claims for itself “ample room, and verge enough
The characters of hell to <illegible>"
Pardon the language which I employ. The words of the poet do not picture too strongly the object proposed. And now these parricidal hosts stand arrayed openly against that paternal Government to which they owed loyalty, protection and affection. (Concluded on fourth page.)
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such art odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House; in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen; of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult she understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINEY ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GENERAL SHERMAN'S PROCLAMATION.
Among the most marvelous things of the past week of wonders was the proclamation of Gen. Sherman to the deserted fields and houses of Hilton Head and Beaufort. He addresses those infamous traitors, who had been but a few minutes previously aiming a murderous fire at his brethren, without cause or excuse, as fellow-citizens Fellow- citizens of what, pray? Of the United States? Surely, if they are citizens, who are not? Who can help being citizens? How endearing must be the ties that treason will not sever? But perhaps it was designed for the Union-loving, who would, but could not show their love. And where, were they? If there had been any, would they have run away with the traitors, rather than tarry and welcome their true friends? Certainly not. If the poor slaves, whose masters had tried hard to compel them to leave, even shooting them for refusing, if they could await the coming army, and welcome it with unmistakable joy, surely the Union whites, had there been any, could have done the same. But, says the excuser, they were frightened, and did not know but they would all be seized and butchered by the inhuman Yankees? Indeed! Did they not know as much as the slaves? Surely, no people ever heard more ghost stories of northern meanness and cruelty than the slaves, and yet they were not afraid to remain and come to our army. Another proclamation has since been made, assuring those traitors who left their Beaufort homes, that if they would come back, they should not be injured, but protected. We certainly admire the masterly work of Capt. Dupont and his gallant crew, in the taking of that port: we admire their genius and bravery: their zeal for their country; but we are most heartily sick of this eternal cringing and creeping after southern traitors: men that have not only been traitors for a few weeks by accident, but who have been such in heart and life for years, and who have spared no pains and stopped at no degradation or crime to accomplish their diabolism. And then to call these Daviess, Masons, and Barnwellï¿½s, Rhettï¿½s, etc., high minded and honorable friends! If they are high minded and honorable, what an angel must Benedict Arnold have become by this time! It is humiliating and painful in the extreme, to see this servility kept up as before the baseness of those wretches was known. Our generals greatly mistake, if they suppose the people of the North, whose friends have been murdered by these high-minded Southern, or thrust into loathsome prisons, have any sympathy with such compliments, or are fairly represented by any such speeches.
On the other hand, in that district were 30,000 inhabitants who were not in arms against their country, and never had been; 30,000 who would gladly take up arms for the Union, and shed their blood freely for their liberty and the government; who did not flee at our approach, but came to greet and offer us their assistance. Yet not one word was said to them to show that we would protect them, or appreciated their loyalty, or would welcome their brawny arms to aid us in sustaining the American Republic. Why this kind feeling and gracious proclamation towards the most impious traitors, pirates, thieves, and murderers the sun ever shone upon, (for this is what all have called them,) and this callous indifference and aversion to those who show they have in their hearts the very principles we proudly boast glow in our own bosoms? Will it still be said that traitors and pirates are better than Negroes? Those innocent and liberty-loving slaves are not equal to liberty and Union-hating whites? Those honest and loyal blacks are not to be sought nor noticed, but traitors may be courted? Alas! If this be so, what can degrade or elevate a black?
Had Gen. Sherman, as he was authorized by Secretary Cameron, immediately called around him these slaves, and assured them that their masters having abandoned the government and left them, they were free; and had he invited them to enter the service as soldiers of the United States, he would at once have had an army with which he could have occupied the whole district, and seized upon the entire cotton crop. This, being the bonded security of the Confederate stocks and basis
Of their capital, would have given a deadly blow to secession, and vastly strengthened our cause both at home and abroad. We are only relieved from our humiliation by the refreshing tide of popular feeling that comes rolling in from every quarter, and the encouraging words of Secretary Cameron. The people well know that slaveholders have begotten this hideous and deformed monster, and they will never rest until the government casts off its fawning affection for them, and spares them no more at the expense of our own precious friends. They as well know that a black friend is better than a white foe, as did Jackson, and demand that they shall be treated as such. Whatever may have been our theories heretofore, it is now indisputably settled that it is the whites of the South, and not the blacks, who are unfit for freedom; not the slaves, but their masters, who would come North, and overrun our fair fields, and not only corrupt our morals, but ruin our land. The only true friends of American freedom, industry and government, to be found in the land of whips and chains, are the Negroes. They have poisoned no springs, nor committed any such fiendish slaughters as that perpetrated by the heartless traitors of Guyandotte. Why, in the name of all that is rational, shall we discard our friends, the blacks, and court the men who lay trains to powder-magazines, to blow us up? Heaven restore us to sanity once more!-American Baptist.
DOGBERRY IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
Of all the misfortunes that have befallen us, in this unhappy war, that of pacification Generals is the greatest A corporal can't be sent with a file of men to forage in an orchard, or potatoes patch, but he issues a proclamation, announcing the most friendly and pacific designs. He comes only to restore peace, to sec the laws enforced, and the Constitution upheld, and above all things will not disturb the institutions of the said orchard or potatoes patch! We had not sent our forces into Western Virginia, where we have already decimated our forces, by the fruitless enterprise, till Gen. McClellan issued his proclamation, that the country was only to be protected, and especially in its institutions, and an iron hand was to be laid upon any attempt to touch the cause of the war, or the least manifestation of disrespect for slavery. The same farce has been played in every direction, and always with the effect of neutralizing the whole labor of the campaign. The rebels have every where been assured that no harm was meant them, and above all things the pet
"Niggerï¿½ was not to be molested. It is true, that these Dogberries always professed an intention to "comprehend all manner of vigor men, and bid them stand in the Prince's name;ï¿½ but those that would not stand, have been most faithfully told they were ï¿½not the men they took them for." And as to thieves, they were always treated by the safe rule of letting them ï¿½prove them such by stealing out of your company.ï¿½ With this emollient practice of proclamation poultices to rebellion, wherever it breaks out, it is no wonder that we have made no advance towards curing it.
The last case of this kind seems to prove worse than all others. ï¿½An immense fleet and army have landed on the shores of South Carolina, before whom the rebels fled like chickens before a hawk, and left us in the full possession of every thing-Negroes and all. Instead of improving upon this, as a General would have done, and advanced to a commanding position, Gen. Sherman, the commander of this enterprise, sets to writing a proclamation, in which he tells the rebels of that eminent nest of treason, that he has only landed a small force, for their protection, and purposes of peace generally, but with all deference to a ï¿½great sovereign State, and to a proud and hospitable peopleï¿½! Then, to the people who began the rebellion, and besieged Major Anderson
Fort Sumter, he appeals in this wise:-
ï¿½Can you pursue this fratricidal war, and can you imbrue your hands in the loyal blood of your country men, your friends, your kinsmen, for no other object than to unlawfully disrupt the Confederacy of a great people, a Confederacy established by your own hands, in order to set up, were it possible, an
Independent Government, under which you can never live in peace, prosperity and quietness?"
When this affectionate address was prepared, our sapient General was somewhat at a loss for listeners. There were plenty of our black friends about, who were loyal, and who had not fled, and were ready to attest their loyalty by their acts. But he could not talk in this style to them. They were niggers. So he starts a flag of truce into the country, to run down an English clergyman, he had heard of. They found another clergyman-a Carolinian-whom they coaxed to read the proclamation, and as a favor to take it to the Englishman; while he assured them that no Carolinian would pay the least regard to it! So he might have known, if he had possessed any common sense. But it is our fate that common 
<c02>
Sense is not the sense of our Generals-especially if they have an important positions and this splendid movement of our Army and Navy is to be toned down into a force, of which Dogberry himself might have been ashamed, all in fear of disturbing the blessed institution! This is the crowning glory, thus far, of the landing of our fleet. What more it will come, to, we must patiently wait to see.-Ashtabula Sentinel.
GEN. HALLECK'S POLICY.
The very just criticisms of Gen. Hillockï¿½s order No. 3 -that which forbids fugitive slaves to enter his lines-and the profound dissatisfaction which that useless and ill-timed document has created among the people, who have furnished and are furnishing the Army of the West with the troops who will squelch the rebellion in the Valley of the Mississippi, ought to admonish the General to reconsider his action. The people believe that as a military measure his order is absurd, and that, as a concession to the demands of treason in Missouri, it is wicked. They are giving their money and best blood that secession may be baffled and put down; and while doing so, they will demand of those in front of their armies, the use of all the means which civilized warfare sanctions,. That the life and treasure expended in the perilous struggle may not be wasted. If the loss of slaves will bring armed rebels to their senses, and teach them that treason has its immediate and heavy penalties, they want to see a sable cloud hanging to the rear of every column of Federal troops, If fugitive slaves can furnish information of the movements and objects of the enemy, they want to see the way to Gen. Hillockï¿½s headquarters kept clear, so that the information may come in. If it is necessary in the progress of the campaign to wipe slavery and its abominations out of Missouri, they want a General who is willing to bear the besom of destruction in his right hand. All these demands are frustrated by the order of which we speak. Rebellion remains in possession of its most coveted treasures, and derives from the labor of its slaves the life-blood which nourishes it and gives it strength. In a population whose loyalty is questioned, and where " neutrality" is the utmost that we can look for, the rebel leaders march and countermarch, fit out and send off expeditions and detachments, and the loyal slaves, being forbidden to enter our lines, there are none to carry the news, and the blow comes before the word. Gen. Halleck has shut up the sources of information. His pickets are instructed to drive from his outposts the most loyal men in the State; he leaves in rebel possession the cause of the war and the motive for its continuance; and all for a reason that, to men in 
Civil life would seem, if not given to the world by the Commander of a Department, to be at once hypocritical and puerile-he cannot admit Negroes within his lines, because they will carry back information to the enemy! What wonderful lines are those with which the General has encircled himself-lines which, according to Order No. 3, no black man can pass if his toes are turned toward the camp; and which, according to the reason given for the order, any black man can break through as soon as his heels are turned from the camp-a back-action military rat-trap which lets nobody in, but permits everybody 
To go out!-Chicago Tribune.
GENERAL ORDERS NO.3.
Head-quarters, Department of Missouri. 
St. Louis, November 20th, 1861.
I. It has been represented that important information respecting the numbers and conditions of our forces is conveyed to the enemy by means of fugitive slaves who are admitted within our lines. In order to remedy this evil, it is directed that no such persons be hereafter permitted to enter the lines of any camp, or of any forces on the march, and that any now within our lines be immediately excluded there from.
II. the General Commanding wishes to impress upon all officers in command of posts and troops in the field the importance of preventing unauthorized persons of every description from entering and leaving our lines, and of observing the greatest precaution in the employment of agents and clerks in confidential positions.
By order of Major-General Halleck.
WILLIAM Mc MICHAEL,
Assistant Adjutant General.
GEN. JOHN A. DIX.
Gen. Dix, with the Navy of the United States at his command, and capable of raining hell-fire almost across any part of the entire peninsula from Chesapeake 
Bay or the Atlantic coast, has adopted, as a punishment for their sins, the issue of a proclamation. Not a proclamation in any way akin to that famous saying which created the John A. Dix whom the people loved to think of as a man to be remembered and spoken of by the fire-side in years to come, and as a lesson and example to our children. 
No, this proclamation has little of the ring of the metal of his other brief saying that struck fire from the people as sure as steel will from the flint. His present proclamation falls like lead on the Northern heart.
We are glad of this movement, glad to know that the authority of the United States is asserted, even if in the counting of the buttons of the fishermen of the counties of Accomac and Northampton in Virginia. But oh! that a Major-General should feel it his duty to truckle and cringe to criminals who have destroyed the beacon lights of commerce, who have, sent their means and their sons to the main land of Virginia to steep their souls in the blood of the patriots who have been slaughtered at Bull Run, at Bethel, and at Ball's Bluff!
These traitors are told by John A. Dix, that he sends men amongst them of their own breed, near neighbors, who understand their peculiar institutions, customs and laws, men who value property, nigger property, men who would rather shoot a white man than lower by any act of his the market value of the cheapest nigger. According to the proclamation of John A. Dix, it would be only necessary for the rebels of Accomac and Northampton to form a breastwork of niggers to ensure their immunity from the guns of the soldiers of John A. Dix. It would not do to 
injure that kind of property. It would be unconstitutional to do so. It might irritate our dear brethren of the South. Take their pigs, their homes, their 
altars, their wives, lay waste their fields, slay their children-but O, spare the sacred demon-god, the nigger!
The Rev. Sydney Smith, when accused by a brother clergyman of using sarcasm as a weapon against a presumptuous brother of the cloth, replied that vermin ought-not to have the choice of the instrument by which they are destroyed. The nail or the small tooth comb might be used at the discretion of the operator. 
Not so with the vermin of Accomac and Northampton. The greatest care is exercised by John A. Dix to have the instruments selected exactly to suit them.
ï¿½The Brigade General is Henry M. Lockwood, of Delaware-a State identical in some of the distinctive features of its Social Organization with your own. 
Portions of his force come from counties in Maryland bordering on one of yours. From him and from them you may be assured of the sympathy of near neighbors,. 
as well as friends, if you repel it not by hostile resistance or attack."
And with all this rose-water, we are told that the troops came only to re-establish beacons of commerce and signals for the storm-driven mariner; that the mission is not one of war, of menace, of redress for ruthless injuries flagrantly committed against the whole human family. Why should John A. Dix under such circumstances meet opposition? Why should he dream of it? The very fiends of hell, in its lowest depths, would give him free course to cool their fiery chains, should he send such a message to them. But lest he should not have shaped things exactly to suit them, the proclamation was read yesterday, read to a large number of Virginians in a farm house near the Potomac, and it was declared by them to be entirely satisfactory.
How elated John A. Dix must feel when he knows he is able to satisfy his Southern brethren! Abasement could not farther go. They were satisfied! Will the country, the people, be satisfied that the same John A. Dix who uttered the brave words of February, which reverberated through the land like the blast of an archangel, and quickened the heart's blood of millions, will they be satisfied that he should make a speciality for himself of the tender care of the property in negroes in Accomac and Northampton? Why not let it take its chance in the turmoil and surge of the bloody conflict with the other house-gods and stock of the rebels? Why should we be compelled to bend the knee, and lick their, foul and loathsome sores? Why not let the doomed and damned thing, stand or fall of its own strength or rottenness? Let our brave army not be converted into a band of nigger-catchers. Let the stain not rest on their souls that they aided in the enslavement or blasted the hopes for liberty of a single human being.-Palerson, (N. J)- Guardian.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1861.
MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
ï¿½PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THIS LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of, State of
 respectfully submit -
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country - liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Now that Congress is in session, and various propositions have already been submitted to it on this subject, let there be no unnecessary delay in forwarding emancipation petitions to that body. Send them directly to the proper Senators and Representatives from the various States and Districts. They will, of course, go free of postage. Send them in!
THE DUTY OF THE GOVERNMENT.
The first session of the thirty-seventh Congress assembled at Washington on Monday last. The responsibilities devolving upon that body, in view of the critical state of the country, exceed in solemnity those which have met any similar gathering since 1790, and call for corresponding wisdom and firmness their discharge. All eyes are turned to it with anxiety, and all hearts filled with conflicting emotions of hope and uncertainty. Will it intelligently understand the nature of the present terrible crisis, and boldly apply the only safe and lasting remedy without doubt or wavering? Or will it, in a perverse and cowardly spirit, refuse to look the demands of the hour fully in the face, and insanely attempt to again "daub with untempered mortar," renew the old "covenant with death," seek peace through an " irrepressible conflict," and combine harmoniously together eternally antagonistical elements? Shortly, we trust, it will be flooded with petitions, signed by all classes of the people, without regard to personal prejudices or party lines, asking it to strike at the cause of the rebellion by the total abolition of slavery under the war power, and thus to place the government upon the solid foundation of universal liberty. The request will be a righteous one-the reasons for it are pressing, unanswerable, multitudinous, overwhelming-the power to grant it is ample, and the right to exercise that power is as unquestionable as any right possessed by the government for self-preservation, and " to promote the general welfare, and preserve the blessings of liberty." Will Congress give heed to that request, or express its wish that the President, as commander-in-chief of the army and navy, will do so? How much is depending upon that question!
From the prompt introduction of the subject, in both houses of Congress, on Monday, in various forms, we take groat encourgement. In the House, Mr. Eliot, of Massachusetts, offered the following resolution:
Resolved, by the House of Representatives of the United States ofAmerica-First, That in behalf of the people of these States, we do solemnly declare, that the war in which we are now engaged against the insurgent bodies now in arms against the government has for its object the suppression of such rebellion, and the reestablishment of the rightful authority of the national Constitution and laws over the entire extent of our common country. Second, That while we disclaim all power under the Constitution to interfere by ordinary legislation with the institutions of the several States, yet the war now existing must be conducted according to the usages and rights of military service, and, during its continuance, the recognized authority of the maxim, that the safety of the State is the highest law, subordinates the right of property and dominion over civil relations. Third, That therefore we do hereby declare that, in our judgment, the President of the United States, as Commander-in-chief of our army, and the officers in command under him, have the right to emancipate all persons held as slaves in any military district in a state of insurrection against the national government; and that we respectfully advise that such order of emancipation be issued whenever the same will avail to weaken the power of the rebels in arms, or to strengthen the military power of the loyal forces.
Mr. Dunn, of Indiana, moved to lay the resolution on the table, but the motion was disagreed to by yeas 56 against 70.
The question recurring on Mr. Eliot's resolution, Mr. Roscoe L. Conkling, of New York, proposed an amendment, which Mr. Eliot accepted, so as to make the resolution apply to the slaves of disloyal citizens. On motion of Mr. Stevens, of Pennsylvania, the further consideration of the resolution was postponed until Tuesday next, in order that it may be discussed and amendments submitted. He was in favor of the main features of the proposition, but desired modification 
Mr. Campbell, of Pennsylvania, gave notice that he would call up the following on the 17th inst.
Resolved, That in legislating to meet the exigencies of the present rebellion, Congress should confiscate the property, slaves included, of all rebels, and protect the property and rights under the Constitution and laws of all loyal citizens.
Mr. Stevens, of Pennsylvania, submitted the following for future consideration-
Whereas, Slavery has caused the present rebellion in the United States; and whereas, there can be no solid and permanent peace in this republic so long as that institution exists within it; and whereas, slaves are now used by the rebels as an essential means of supporting and protracting the war; and whereas, 
by the law of nations, it is right to liberate the slaves of an enemy to weaken his power; therefore, be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled, that the President be requested to declare free, and to direct all our Generals and officers in command to order freedom to all slaves who shall leave their masters, or aid in quelling the rebellion.
2d. And be it further resolved, That the United States pledge the faith of the nation to make full and fair compensation to all loyal citizens who are or shall 
remain active in supporting the Union for all the loss they may sustain by virtue of this resolution.
In the Senate, Mr. Trumbull, of Illinois, gave notice that he would introduce a bill to confiscate the property of the rebels, and to give freedom to persons in the rebel slave States. 
All these propositions are substantially alike-emancipating all the slaves, and making satisfactory provision in the cases of loyal slaveholders, so called, if any such can be found-Mr. Eliot, however, un-wisely so modifying his own proposition as to make it apply exclusively to the slaves of rebel masters. 
The axe must be laid at the root of the tree: in other words, the entire slave system must be abolished at a blow, or there will be another " treasuring up of wrath against the day of wrath, and righteous revelation of the judgment of God," on a still more fearful scale, as an inevitable consequence. The emancipation of nine-tenths of the slave population will be no atonement, no safeguard, no pacification: not one of the whole number must be left in his chains. As the army proceeds south, it should deal with slavery as the children of Israel were commanded to act in the land of Canaan:-
<c04>
ï¿½When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan, then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures and, molten images, and quite pluck down, all their high places. But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then it shall come to pass that those which ye let remain of them shall be pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and we you in the land wherein ye dwell. Moreover, it shall come to pass that I shall do unto you, as I thought to do unto them."
So, if this grand and providential opportunity to utterly abolish slavery be permitted to pass unimproved by the government, within whose grasp that vast system of lust and blood is now constitutionally placed for its extermination-if any number of slave-holders or slaves, however small, are allowed to exist as hitherto under the old conditions of the Union- then there must follow in due time fiercer contentions, heavier judgments, and bloodier results. These oppressors and their victims will, in that case, assuredly be ï¿½pricks in our eyes, and thorns in our sides," as a people, and the judgments in store for the former will also be visited upon our own heads. If their number be reduced, by confiscation and the chances of war, to a hundred masters and a thousand slaves, yet if these should be recognized by the government as in constitutional relations, and the power of the government should be pledged to secure the dominion of the one party and the servitude of the other, the source of this rebellion, of our national dishonor and degradation, will remain untouched, and the contagion will spread on every side, carrying desolation and horror in its train. For a hundred masters will be followed by ten thousand, and ten thousand by four hundred thousand as at present, and these again steadily augmented; and a thousand slaves will be multiplied into millions, until a new volcani explosion shall again rend the nation asunder, and fill it with lamentation and woe. One slave left to bear the yoke and clank the chain will suffice to upheaval the republic from its foundations, and to dissever any Union cemented with his blood. Away, then, with all nostrums in the treatment of this disease! The must go to the quick, and to preserve the life, the mortified limb must be cut off. Those who counsel otherwise either desire the death of the patient, or are in a besotted state of mind. Every hour of delay is fraught with danger, and adds to the uncertainty of the issue. Prompt, bold, thorough action is demanded by every principle of justice and every feeling of humanity. There is a class of utterly unscrupulous and thoroughly desperate enemies of emancipation here at the
North, who, with the mask of loyalty covering their treasonable visages, are exerting themselves to the utmost to paralyze the strong right arm of government, and to encourage the Southern traitors never to yield to its supremacy, by audaciously threatening rebellion on our own free soil, in case Congress or the President shall decree the abolition of slavery, even to save the republic! Whipped into decency for a time by a wholesome fear of public indignation in a tangible shape, they are now boldly revealing the traitorous spirit which still controls them, and using the language, of menace and bluster more and more defiantly. Conspicuous among these are the editors of such satanic journals as the Boston Courier, Post, and Herald, the Journal of Commerce, New York Express, Bennett's Herald, &c. &c., as our frequent quotations from them, 
in that receptacle of pro-slavery scoundrelism, the "REFUGE OF OPPRESSION," abundantly show. No worse men, none more seditious, none more dangerous, can be found incarcerated at Fort Lafayette or Fort Warren. Their columns are crowded with inflammatory appeals, with base misstatements, with lying declarations, in the service of " the devil and his angels." The negro is with them a butt of ridicule, an object of contempt, fit only to be " weighed in a tyrant's balance with his gold," and condemned to life-long bondage. Nothing so rouses their brutal passions and malignant feelings as a proposition to restore him to himself, to treat him as a rational being, and to cease outraging the image of God in his person. Whoever advocates such a measure of justice and mercy they assail as a madman or fanatic, and exhaust the vocabulary of defamation to cripple his influence for good. Rather than have slavery abolished, under any circumstances, they would a thousand times prefer to see the republic dismembered, or the Southern Confederacy triumphant over the whole land. Take 
a fresh specimen of the hateful spirit that actuates them. Here it is.
Referring to the general effort now making to obtain universal emancipation "under the war power," not only as a measure of justice, but to put an end to 
the cause of the rebellion, the Journal of Commerce holds this menacing language:-
" When that policy is adopted, the Treasury will close its doors, and New York cease to supply the sinews of war. When that policy is adopted, the army will be demoralized, and the Generals that now lead it to victory will return to their homes in sorrow and shame. (!) When that policy is adopted, Abraham 
Lincoln, if we know him, will not be President of the United States."
Do Jefferson Davis and his traitorous band need anything more explicit than this to encourage them in their work of treason and piracy? Is not the author 
of such menaces to be classed with the vilest in the land? His code of morality is clearly that of brigands and slave-mongers, so far as the rights and 
interests of four millions of the people are concerned.
THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
The Message of President Lincoln was delivered to Congress on Tuesday last. Its chief, almost its sole merit is its brevity, considering the staple of which it is made; and yet the tremendous issues of the hour, if properly treated in such a document, are not to be briefly disposed of. Every body says Mr. Lincoln is an "honest" man; but it is at least equally certain that he is very weak in his joints, and wholly disqualified to lead or inspire. His message is very feeble and rambling, and ridiculous as a State paper, which ought to be high-toned, vigorous, comprehensive, and historically important. Incredible as it may seem, it wholly ignores the only cause of that rebellion which has already withdrawn twelve States from the Union, (for Missouri has just been formally voted into the Southern Confederacy,) and cost the Government a fearful amount of blood and treasure! Was there ever stupidity or folly beyond this? 
The President makes a merit of his imbecility by sayingï¿½ï¿½ In considering the policy to be adopted for suppressing the insurrection, I have been anxious and careful that the inevitable conflict for this purpose shall not degenerate-into a violent and remorseless revolutionary struggle." How very obliging!
In regard to such contrabands as the fortunes of war may bring within the control of the Government the President suggests the expediency of acquiring new territory in which to colonize them! What nonsense! If their presence can be endured as slaves, can it not be when they are freemen? If their labor was valuable, nay, indispensable when extorted under the lash, will it be any less so when it is fairly compensated? Let Congress propose no colonization scheme, unless they desire fresh "agitation" and unending conflict. Nothing is wanted but emancipation; after that, everything will work well for all parties.- President Lincoln may colonize himself if he choose, but it is an impertinent act, on his part, to propose the getting rid of those who are as good as himself. 
Here is a recommendation to be most heartily approved, as the simplest act of justice which has been so long and so meanly withheld:-
"If any good reason exists why we should perservere longer in withholding our recognition of the independence and sovereignty of Hayti and Liberia, I am unable to discern it. I am unwilling, however, to inaugurate a, novel policy in regard to them without the approbation of Congress. I submit for your consideration the expediency of an appropriation for maintaining a Charge d'Affaires near each of these new States. It does not admit of doubt that important commercial advantages might be secured by favorable treaties with them."
Aside from this, the message is weak and common place to a pitiable degree.
<c05>
WHAT TRUE PATRIOTISM DEMANDS.
" THE CHOICE BY LOT. Extract of a letter from a prisoner in Richmond, Va., dated Nov. 12, 1861: 'The usual quiet of our prison was broken in upon on Sunday afternoon by the appearance of Gen. J. H. Winder, commander of this place, who read an order from the authorities, directing him to select by ballot one Colonel of the United States Army, to stand as hostage for W. Smith, lately convicted in Philadelphia for piracy; the lot fell upon Col. Michael Corcoran, of the 69th New York Regiment, who will be confined in a dungeon and await the execution of Smith; and should he be hung, he will suffer the like death. There were also selected in the same mode, three captains, who, together with the balance of the colonels, all the majors and lieutenant-colonels, to the number of thirteen, are to be held as hostages for the thirteen privateer's men whose trial took place a few days since in New York, and the jury failed to agree. 
What the action of our Government may be, we know not, but can hardly believe they will jeopardy the lives of innocent men, for retaliation will surely 
take place, and when once commenced, there is no knowing when it will stop,-perhaps not before our land is deluged in innocent blood!ï¿½ï¿½-Evangelist.
In the above extract from a letter, we see displayed at once, not only the brutal character of the Southern rebels, who are ready to kill innocent men in revenge for the death of guilty ones-to violate both law and justice in retaliation for the punishment, by due process of law, of atrocious criminals-but the unhappy faint-heartedness of some one of the Northern prisoners, whose correspondent has judiciously withheld his name.
The plea of the unnamed prisoner is, that the regular course of execution of United States law be intermitted, because vengeance is threatened by the 
accomplices of the pirates, upon certain loyal and valiant soldiers, now in their power. Let us inquire, first, if this is a reasonable plea, and next, what the soldiers in question, themselves, either in a body, or by their commander, would be likely to say to it.
Is the execution of law to be abandoned, on the ground that the open criminals against whom it operates declare that they will act worse and worse while 
it continues to be enforced? Does not the question answer itself? Is not the stringent execution of a just law more needful, precisely in proportion to the 
number and boldness of the infractions of it?
What would be the consequence of a concession such as the Evangelist recommends? If the threat of new outrages on the part of the enemy be all that is necessary to block the movements of the United States Government in any particular direction, will not the same principle be further applied? "What if the rebel
 leaders select from their prisoners a certain number to be hung for every new advance of any division of the Federal army! for the sailing of every new naval expedition against them! for the assault of any new portion of their coast line! for the continuance of the blockade after a specified time! Should such threats be allowed to paralyze our forces and prevent our action? Is it not plain that the granting of one such demand would be the signal for more, and that if we act on such a principle, we must surrender all for which we are now 
contending?
What would Col. Corcoran and his brave associates say to the United States Government in view of such a proposition? For the sake of the country whose 
citizens (native or adopted) they are-for the sake of certain principles of justice and freedom which are assailed by tyrants, for the extension of slavery-in defence of the Constitution, the laws, and the regularly chosen governmental administrators of them-they have chosen to make immense sacrifices, of various 
sorts; to leave their business and their homes, and to expose themselves to the privations of the camp, the dangers of the battle-field, and the risk of death or imprisonment. When those dangers have been greaterv or more varied than they expected-for many of these brave soldiers supposed themselves contending 
with a civilized people, and did not reckon upon drinking from poisoned wells, or being bayoneted while lying hopelessly wounded, on the battle-field-have 
they ever proposed, in view of these new manifestations of the character of their opponents, to withdraw from the conflict themselves, or to have the country withdraw from it? Never! Everv one of these developments of barbarism was a new reason for energetically pushing the advance against the barbarians, 
and has been so understood, alike by officers and soldiers. And now that a new atrocity is proposed by the fighters for slavery-now that they threaten to 
kill a certain innocent man, unless the country whose laws and rights they are attacking will abandon those laws and rights-what are we to suppose Colonel 
Corcoran will sav to this proposition? Will he now counsel submission to the enemy that his life may be saved? Will he not rather say- When I enlisted, I 
offered my life for the service of my country, and freely took all the risks to which it might be exposed. The case in which I now stand is one of those risks; no less, no more. I scorn the idea of receiving my life at the cost of an abandonment of duty by the United States Government. It is their duty to put down this rebellion; and I solemnly enjoin upon them not to swerve one hair's breadth from the line, of that duty, for the sake of making favorable conditions for me. To die for my country cannot be other than glorious to me. To shrink from giving my life for her cause now would be as shameful as to flee from the battle-field. If the enemy fulfil so base a threat, it will be worse for their cause than the loss of a battle. Let them fulfil it if they dare. I ask 
no favors at their hands. But if my death shall mark the hour of my country's determination to persist in the maintenance of her righteous cause, and never to yield to the demands of treason, I shall die not only happy, but triumphant. My death will have done more, even than my life, to serve the cause for which I took up arms.
Thus, it seems to me, every brave, loyal and patriotic man would speak. And the country would protect the lives of her gallant sons far more effectually 
by utterly disregarding such threats of the traitors, than by yielding to them
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
We publish, entire, in our present number, the admirable Speech of Mr. Sumner, on " The Rebellion- its Origin and Main-Spring," as made before immense and applauding audiences in this and other cities. 
Mr. Sumner delivered this Speech in New York before the Young Men's Republican Union. William Curtis Noyes, Esq., presided, and introduced ï¿½the speaker with a very complimentary parallel between him and James Otis. Mr. Sumner was welcomed heartily, and his address of two hours and a half was listened to with profound attention. The allusions to Fremont, and his remarks on the instructions of Mr. Cameron to General Sherman, together with all the arguments in favor of the eradication of slavery, were received with uproarious demonstrations of approval; and the thanks of the meeting were tendered ï¿½to Hon. Charles Sumner, the distinguished orator of the evening, for his re-assertion and eloquent enforcement of the political principles herein indorsed.ï¿½-The following resolution was cordially adopted:-
Resolved, That the doctrine enunciated by Major General Fremont, with respect to the emancipation of the slaves of rebels, and the more recent utterances of 
Gen. Burnside, Senator Wilson, and the Hon. George Bancroft, in this city, and of Col. John Cochrane an the Hon. Simon Cameron, at Washington, foreshadowing 
the eventual rooting out of slavery, as the cause of the rebellion, indicate alike a moral, political, and military necessity; and, in the judgment of this meeting, the public sentiment of the North is now fully in sympathy with any practicable scheme which may be presented for the extirpation of this national evil, and will accept such result as the only consistent issue of this contest between civilization and barbarism.
The Tribune says that after the dismissal of the vast assemblage, at the Cooper Institute, a number of the friends of Mr. Sumner entertained him at a collation at Curet's, No. 742 Broadway, where brilliant speeches were made by William Curtis Noyes, Esq.; the Hon. Charles Sumner; William M. Evarts, Esq.; the Rev. Mr. Con way, of the Hawkins Zouaves; the Rev. Prof. Hitchcock; Cephas Brainard, Esq.; Richard C. McCormick, Esq.; and Elliot C. Cowdin, Esq. The 
sentiment that emancipation was to be the means of crushing the rebellion-the means of prosecuting the war, and not the end of the war-ruled the hour.
<c06>
LIBERTY AND SLAVERY.
LIBERTY is of God, and has upon it His image and superscription. When His divinest Son entered upon his mission, he declared, ï¿½The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He hath anointed me. to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison doors to them that are boundï¿½;and one of his noblest commentators, the apostle Paul,. said: " Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.ï¿½ But it is marvellous that in this age of the Christian era, and in this boasted country of civil and religious freedom, there should be any need of argument to prove that liberty is the birth-right of all! -here, where the government sprung into existence upon the immortal declaration that ï¿½ all men are created free and equal and with the inalienable right to ï¿½life, liberty, and 
the pursuit of happinessï¿½! But so it is; and the first principles of humanity, republicanism, and the Christian gospel, have to be proclaimed a new in the face of the vilest despotism the world has ever seen- a despotism that is now in rebellious arms against civilization.
Wherever the infernal power of American slavery has put down its cloven foot, there have followed blight, and barrenness, and every form of physical and moral evil. The whole South-land is a demonstrative proof of this. There is evidently no civilization there worthy of the age, or worthy to be called Christian, even in the lowest sense; and bowie knives and pistols have long been its most fitting coat of arms. Its ignorance, aside from its few slaveholders and aristocrats, is proverbial; and the knowledge of the few has only madethem, worse, they having no divine principles to guide them,. ï¿½Traitors and rebels," not only to human, but to divine government, is the character of nearly al1 of them. And they have gone on waxing worse and worse continually from the first. Under their controlling influence, the general government has thus degenerated, until it has, at last, come near sinking under the weight of its corruption. Our revolutionary fathers were not the mad advocates of slavery that so many of their descendants are- not even the Southern branch of them; for the noblest of them acknowledged it to be an evil and a curse, and deplored its existence. Could they have clearly foreseen our day, I do not believe they would have compromised with it -such as Jefferson and Henry, especially.
But this question of Liberty in America should not be narrowed down to a consideration of the rights and claims of the enslaved alone. Their rights and claims, of course, come first with every true philanthropist; and if there were but one innocent human being in chains, hurled down from manhood to brutality, that in itself would be a sufficient reason why heaven and earth should be moved for his deliverance; for, strike down only one manï¿½s rights, governmentally, and you disturb the equilibrium of the moral and social fabric, and set an example which, if followed, would ruain the race. And what are governments?, that they should presume to barter away human rights, or to compromise them, for their own selfish ends? Whenever they do such deeds, and to the extent that they do them, they cease to be legitimate governments, and become conspiracies against God and humanity. And the oft-repeated sentiment, that governments are for man and not man for them, needs to become a sentiment in all hearts, and not mere words upon the lips, and to be carried out in deeds. To sacrifice a race in order to save a government is diabolical; and none but moral idiots will think that government can be served in that way. The demonstration is to-day before us all,. that a nation built on slavery as even only one of its pillars, is as a house built on the sand. All of our politicians and statesmen ought to be convinced of this by the inevitable war that has come upon us; and if they are not, God grant that their leadership may soon be taken from them, and given to more enlightened men! 
If there be any truth in the teachings of Jesus as to his intimate relationship to Mankind, every time that a human being is bought and sold, he himself is bought and sold." Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me,ï¿½ is his word. Let politicians and states-men then, beware how they turn Judases at this perilous hour, and ï¿½South-sideï¿½ priests also. ï¿½It were better for them that a mill-stone were tied to their necks, and they drowned in the depths of the sea,ï¿½ than that they should now stand on the side of slavery. God is calling upon this nation in the trumpet tones of a terrible retributive Providence to ï¿½let the oppressed go free,ï¿½ and they who obstinately put themselves in the position of Pharach against Him, will ultimately meet with even a worse doom than his, for they sin against greater light. 
This conflict in which we are now engaged is only the extension of the irrepressible.ï¿½-conflict of the agesï¿½-the conflict between freedom and despotism. All the divinest struggles of the past, from Moses to the present time, have been for Liberty-for personal civil and religious liberty; and by its heaven born spirit have all the noblest words in all languages, and all the noblest deeds, been inspired. Nor does our common humanity remember with gratitude and approval any but the friends of freedom. It is to them that all durable monuments are built. Blot out from the history of the race the records of the lives of those who have given themselves, in living and dying martyrdom, to the cause of Liberty, and you would leave the remnant of that history a vile scroll, which would tell mainly of manï¿½s depravity, meanness and servility. And but for the lovers and friends of liberty that have gone before us, this nineteenth century would have been far from the apparently glorious century that
it is. An unresisted despotism would have been the grave of our civilization, and ruffianism would have ruled and ruined the race Let Jeff Davis triumph, and what a barbarous nation would this become!-or the pro-slavery leaders of the North Progress in the arts and sciences, and in true religion and philanthropy, can flourish only where there is liberty. 
As, too, we estimate the conflicts between Liberty and Despotism in the past, so will posterity estimate the conflict in which we are engaged, and judge us. The Garrisons, Phalluses Quinces, Mays, Gerri Smiths, summers and Cheerers, in, the ï¿½irrepressible conflict" of to-day, are the Admass, Hancockï¿½s, Franklins and Jeffersonï¿½s of ï¿½76. And let us not build monuments to our fathers, and revile our brothers; but take such positions as those who are to come after us will honor-as God will approve and bless! W. H. F.
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Dotson &C0., 277 Washington Street, Boston, have just issued the following musical books:-
The Parlor Harp: A Collection of Songs, Glees, Anthems, &c., adapted to Schools, Social Parties, and the Family Circle. By ASAP Fits.
The Union Collection of Popular Duets, for Violin [or Flute] and Piano. Arranged by S. Winner.
Winner's Perfect Guide for the Violin, in which the instructions are so clearly and simply treated, as to make it unnecessary to require a teacher. For practice, more than 150 operatic and popular airs are added forming a complete collection of the best melodies of the day.
An exceedingly interesting and valuable discourse was delivered at Music Hall, on Sunday last, by SAMUEL JOHNSON minister of the independent church at Lynn, on the views, feelings and position of the government and people of England, respecting the rebellion in this country. Instead of attempting to give any analysis of it, we hope to present it entire to our readers, in a future number. Mr. Johnson having somewhat recently returned from a visit abroad, 
Is enabled to speak intelligently upon this subject.
Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York, is to lecture before the Mercantile Library Association, a Music Hall, on Monday evening next; and before the ï¿½Fraternity,ï¿½ at Tremont Temple, Tuesday evening. Both lectures will, doubtless, draw crowded audiences.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER OF GERRIT SMITH TO EDWIN CROSWELL.
PETERBORO’, November 27, 1861.
EDWIN CROSWELL, ESQ.: Dear Sir,-I have just read your letter to Colonel Cochrane. It gratifies me not a little to find that your influence, which, so long as twenty, thirty, and even forty years ago, was so very potent, is given to the furtherance of his wise and timely views on a point of vital importance to the country. You agree with the Colonel in the duty of availing ourselves of the black man's help to put down the rebels. I regret your mistake that the Abolitionists do not also agree with him. Your public declaration, that they do not, is of very injurious tendency -not to them only, but (and this is of far greater consequence) to the country, and to the sacred cause in which the whole country should be united.
You desire it to be, and to be known and felt to be, that all classes of our people stand with Colonel Cochrane in this respect. And, in your judgment, they all do, excepting the Abolitionists—or, as you phrase it,” excepting in Abolition quarters." Your exception is not warranted by facts. From the breaking out of the Rebellion until the present time, the Abolitionists, having been constantly in earnest to crush it, have been constantly eager to secure to this end the help of black men as well as white men. I am myself an Abolitionist. Nevertheless, I have written and spoken much for the identical position taken by Colonel Cochrane.
 Instead of holding up the Abolitionists as opposed to Colonel Cochrane’s views, you ought to do them the justice to acknowledge that, from the first, these views have been theirs also. I am not asking you to relax your opposition to their Abolition doctrines. Denounce these, if you will, more emphatically than ever. Expose to the utmost their folly in believing that the abolition of slavery would be an effective means for routing the rebels. Only admit that, however wrong they are in other respects, they are clearly identified with these views of Colonel Cochrane.
I confess that I am sadly disappointed in this war. I took it for granted that our whole people would very soon be in favor of employing all means to bring it to the speediest end. The Abolitionists are. But considerable portions of all other parties are not. Without denying that salvation can come to my country alone through her penitence for her oppression, I, nevertheless, cannot hope for such penitence as long as she is so Infatuated as to be unwilling to be saved by whatever muscles and means. The best I can as yet hope for (and even for this hope there is but too little encouragement) is, that the whole North may soon rally around the position taken by Colonel Cochrane, yourself and the Abolitionists.
But you will say that the Abolitionists are in favor of abolishing slavery. It is true that they are. And this, if you please, is their folly—nay, their wickedness, if you will so have it. Nevertheless, why argue from this folly and wickedness that they are not with Colonel Cochrane, when you see that they are?
I am not writing an eulogy upon the Abolitionists. If I were, I would say that no other men are more cordially in the armed movement against the rebels. I would say that, in proportion to their numbers, no other men have furnished more soldiers or more comferts for soldiers and soldiers' families. I would say that none of them have come under so much as the slightest suspicion of indulging the secession spirit, or the slightest suspicion of sympathy with the rebels. I would say that Abolitionist is only another name for an intense hater of the rebellion. Moreover, I would say that they are ever ready to join hands with all in this great national fight against rebellion. They can go into it with anti-Abolitionists of every type- with those who admiringly read the New York Herald, the New York Express, the Journal of Commerce, and with those who feel that they cannot get to sleep without having a New York Observer under their pillow. Into this fight I am as much bound to welcome the Pro-Slavery James Gordon Bennett as the Anti-Slavery Horace Greeley. The North is contending with a strong enemy whose hands may soon be strengthened with stronger enemies. In these circumstances, she cannot afford to be divided by miserable party prejudices and jealousies. To such an enemy she must present an unbroken front. I must be willing to work with you, and you with me, for the success of our arms—for in this we can work together, our differences about Abolition, or anything else, to the contrary notwithstanding. God grant that all Northern men may be able to tolerate their mutual differences so far as to stand shoulder to shoulder against the enemy!
I am not surprised to learn, as I do from the postscript of your letter, that Mr. Dickinson concurs with yourself and Colonel Cochrane. Months ago, I ascertained that he was more than a partisan—that he was a patriot, and was, therefore, ready to have the country saved by whatever means and at whatever expense to party, or to anything else.
Happy am I to know that you, and Mr. Dickinson, and many other distinguished Democrats feel that after the enemy is vanquished will be soon enough to recollect and reconstruct the Democratic party. Then, too, the Abolitionists will have more leisure for busying themselves with what Democrats regard as Abolition nonsense. Then, too, merchants, manufacturers and solemn priests may find more time and opportunity for contriving new guarantees for slavery. But, until the enemy is vanquished, let us, whatever the divisions among ourselves, be as one against him. Until then, let us care comparatively nothing to save this party or that, this Constitution or that, this system or that. Until then, let our one concern be to SAVE OUR COUNTRY. That saved, and we can restore the old Constitution or make a new one; but that lost, we shall have no need of either. That saved, there will be an ample theatre for parties to all who delight in them. That saved, and they who regard slavery as a blessing may find themselves in circumstances more favorable than ever for making the blessing abundant and sure.
The Abolitionists have always had the reputation of being bigoted and exclusive. But do not the broad common sense and the preeminent liberality which characterize them in this war go far to prove that they did not merit this bad reputation? Look, for instance, at the admirable course of their most distinguished leaders, William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips. Ever since the bombarding of Sumter, these bold iconoclastic reformers have addressed themselves to the new duties of the new circumstances, with a practical wisdom unsurpassed by that of the most calm and conservative statesmen. No men are more intent on saving the country; and no men see more clearly the folly of trying to save it by a partial use of the means for saving it. Nor are any more free to work with any in putting down the rebellion. Glad are they to have even the most Pro-Slavery men for their fellows in this work. The Garrison and Phillips school of Abolitionists have wisely suspended their strictures on the Constitution, and I would that the other school might suspend their defences of it. Just now., there is not one minute, no, nor half a minute, to be spared to either school for presenting its view of the Constitution. My friend Henry B. Stanton gives a very amusing account of a gentleman, who, in the midst of the broken bones of a railroad accident, kept on arguing the Anti-Slavery character of the Constitution. Indeed, so entirely unseasonable is all present talk of the Constitution, that, unless I know him to be the friend of the country. I set down every one, who is wasting his own time and the time of others with such talk, as the enemy of the country. I do not deny that there are many honest men who feel that their country would be lost, if the Constitution should be. They are more honest than enlightened. If left without a country, we would indeed be left without a Constitution. But it does not follow that we should be left without a country, were we left without a Constitution. It is not the Constitution that gave us the country, but the country that gave us the Constitution. The Constitution did not so much as give us our Government. On the contrary, our Government gave us our Constitution. We had our Government
<c02>
before we had our Constitution. The principle of Democracy was our Government; and the Constitution but served to point out some of the modes by which the principle should govern. The Constitution did not create the union of the American people. Traditions, common memories and common hopes, fellowship in faith and fellowship in suffering did. The Constitution but enjoined ways for making an already existing union” a more perfect union."
Let us, then, have no fear that we shall be left without a Constitution. If the country survives the war, we shall not fail to have a Constitution; and if it does not, we shall not need one. Our present Constitution may be roughly handled by the necessities of war. Parts of it may be modified, and parts utterly destroyed. It may even need to be abandoned. Not only, however, shall we have a Constitution if we have a country, but we shall have a Democratic Constitution if only the Democratic principle shall have survived; for wherever that principle lives and reigns will be Democratic Constitutions. It produces such, and it can produce only such. England would not cease to be England, and to have a Government, by the repudiation of any, however large part of that long series of precedents which make up her Constitution. Should she lose one Constitution, she would quickly have another; and the Constitution which would come out of the great liberty-loving heart of her people would be essentially a Free Constitution.
Among the blessings which will result from this war, provided we shall have the wisdom to conquer in it (thus far we have had the power, but not the wisdom to use it)-among these blessings, I say, will be the restored love of country. That love was once the passion of the American heart. But demagogues have succeeded in making the passion give place to the worship of the Constitution; and should our country perish in its present perils, it will be owing to this unhappy substitution. President Lincoln is a man of understanding and of honest intentions; and why he has not, ere this, ended the war, and saved the country, is simply because he is a worshipper of the Constitution, and feels that he can love and honor and serve and save the country only through the Constitution. Every breach made in the Constitution is, in his eye, a breach made in the country; and with him the alarming prospect of a lost Constitution is all one with the alarming prospect of a lost country. But the good man cannot help it; for how rare is he who is able to surmount his education! And the President was educated to worship the Constitution. This education hampers him at every step. With all his heart would he save the country, but his reverence for the Constitution will not let him. He is capable of purposes to sweep away, even in his native Kentucky, every obstruction in the path of our cause; but palsied would be these purposes by such an appeal to that reverence as a Crittenden or Holt would make in the bare mention of constitutional objections.
Miserable substitute for the love of country is this worshipping of a paper!-quite as miserable as is the making more account of the suit of clothes than of the man who wears it! Yes, if the war shall have no other good effect than to bring back the popular heart from this debasing, shrivelling worship to the expanding and ennobling love of country, it will be worth all it has cost.
The one thing which, from the beginning of the war, I have striven for, is to contribute, so far as my little influence can, to band together all men and women, white, red and black, in the invincible determination to save the country-and to save it, too, even though it be in the face of the certainty that the saving of it will involve the destruction of party, slavery, Constitution, and what not else. Nothing short of this determination can suffice to overcome our foe; for he is most emphatically a determined foe-determined to wield every possible power and avail himself of every possible advantage for success. Whilst our boasted high style of civilization forbids our following the example, he calls the bloody Indian to his aid; and whilst we send back his fugitive slaves, he makes slaves his most effective helpers. And so determined is he, that he will spare nothing which stands in the way of his success. Not even slavery will he spare, if the sacrifice shall become necessary to his success. Rather than come under the North, he would unhesitatingly emancipate his slaves. A prominent member of the Government told me that slaveholding pride would prevent this. There was such pride—but it exists no longer. It is swallowed up in the all-swallowing up pride to whip the North. When hard pressed by our victories, the South will (provided we shall continue so insane as to leave them in her hands) not hesitate to make unconquerable allies of her slaves by emancipating them. And, by the way, she would not fail to take into account the gaining of the world's sympathy by the measure. But there are persons who remind us that the South, inasmuch as she went to war for slavery, will never consent to give it up. Superficial thinkers are they. The cause of a quarrel is generally lost sight of. The parties to it forget the cause in their passion to conquer. The dog or the dollar about which men came to blows is not what sustains and swells the interest of the battle: it is the blows themselves. That stage of the controversy in which the object of the South was the establishing of slavery was passed months ago. The joy of her final success against our invading armies would be scarcely at all diminished by the attendant loss of all her slaves.
I repeat what I have often said—THE PARTY WHICH GETS THE BLACKS TO FIGHT FOR IT, GETS THE VICTORY. May God move our Congress and our commanders, whilst yet it is not too late, to get the blacks to fight for us!
But I must stop. I thank you for your letter. It cannot fail to do great good. I beg you, however, not to ignore the fact that the Abolitionists are with you, and Mr. Dickinson, and Colonel Cochrane. Be not ashamed of your company—for you may be sure that, before this fight is through with, you will feel the need of the help of all the despised classes—the Negroes, the Indians, and even the Abolitionists. Do not peril your country for the sake of gratifying old prejudices. Respectfully, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
SPEECH OF GENEDAL LANE, OF KANSAS, ON THE WAR.
Last Saturday forenoon, General James H. Lane, of Kansas, addressed a large audience at Tremont Temple. Notwithstanding the unfavorable weather, the Temple was well filled, and among the audience were many of our prominent citizens.
The speaker came upon the platform- soon after eleven o'clock, accompanied by several prominent anti-slavery gentlemen, and was received with hearty applause.
F. W. Bird, Esq., of Walpole, called the meeting to order, and said that Gen. Lane had bean detained by paying his first visit to Capt. Wilkes. (Applause.) He recommended Mr. Otis Clapp for Chairman, and he was appointed.
Upon taking the chair, Mr. Clapp said that desperate diseases required strong remedies, and without any further preliminary remark, introduced General Lane, who was again greeted with cheers.
General Lane said he felt embarrassed in addressing gentlemen in the habit of hearing eloquent and classic speeches. When he set out in life, his mother said there was nothing to prevent his success but his unconquerable modesty. But he desired to return to the people of Boston the thanks of the people of Kansas for past generosity, which made that State free. (Applause.) The children of Kansas are taught gratitude to those who stood by them in 1855 and 1856.
He asked how much reverence there was in this assembly for slavery? (Answers from the audience-"None!") Born in a slave State, and nursed by a slave, he had now got rid of what reverence he ever had for it (Applause.) My memory runneth not to the time when slavery did not threaten the Union. The threats of the South, the stuffing of ballot boxes, the raising of black flags in Kansas bearing the word
<c03>
" Murder!” and the efforts of the late Administration to destroy the government, followed by the attack on Sumter, and the assassination of your gallant sons in the streets of Baltimore, must destroy all respect for it.
We want a speedy crushing out of rebellion, (applause,) and a permanent peace. He is a coward who wants a peace patched up with the knowledge that our children will have this battle to fight over again: (Loud and repeated applause.) At last, we have the army and navy that can crush out the rebellion, but it cannot be done without removing the disease. All know that slavery is the disease, and that the war is only waged for slavery. Where is the man who would attempt a purification without curing the disease? He would be called a quack. The time has gone by for any one to attempt to show that the war is not waged for slavery. Ask the soldiers of Gen. Price what they are fighting for? they will answer” slavery." Ask the soldiers of Gen. Halleck, and they will make the same answer.
" Slavery” is written on their banners, and what is ours,-is it not substantially the same, when we war for the old Union? The time has gone by to attempt to convince men that the war is waged for nothing but slavery. We all know it. When it is attempted to arouse your sympathies for the slaves of the Union men, remember that there are no Union men in secession communities. They are driven out, and their slaves are used as are those of secession owners. When they say that loyal men can control their slaves in secession neighborhoods, they say that which is not true. I have given to Union men receipts for the loss of slaves, caused by the march of the Kansas brigade. These very slaves had been used for months by the traitors of Missouri by force. These certificates came back to me, directing me to give up those slaves to the bearers. An order of the government to give up loyal citizens for the benefit of traitors! Return them to slavery! Me! The people of Kansas return them to slavery! No, Sir! (Great cheering, and cries of ” good!" “good!") He sought his commander, and told him his order was illegitimate, and that he would not obey it. (Cheers.)
How many soldiers' lives are you willing to give to maintain slavery? ("None.") As for myself, I will not shed a single drop of blood to save the accursed system.
The slaves can be easily won over by kindness. When the Kansas Brigade first went into Missouri, the slaves were a” little off." They had been told all sorts of stories as to the treatment they would receive from” Lane's men." We had a few contrabands, however, who soon gave them better information, and the slaves flocked into our camp. Many of them were sent to Kansas, and went to work there.
If we are prosecuting this war to maintain slavery and crush treason, it will require two armies, and the slavery preserving army will have to be very careful how it strikes, as this institution of slavery has a very delicate organization. I consider its end as certain, whatever policy is pursued, because slavery cannot stand in a civil war.
But we are fighting to avoid bloodshed as far as possible, and to bring the contest to an end as soon as possible. If we are fighting to whip the South, let us make use of all the means that are placed in our power. Arm the negro against the negro. I am tempted to give a homely illustration of my position. (" Go ahead.") When I went to school, the boys used to have a fight every Saturday afternoon to see which was the smartest. Well, I had won my way next to the head. (Laughter.) The champion was a big fellow, three years older than me, named Joe Darragh-I shall never forget his name as long as I live. (Laughter.) When we ”fit," we ”fit" to win. It was none of your hitting above the belt, but regular scratching and gouging. For a long time I came off-—well, second best, with him. One day he went in bathing, and received a severe bruise below his knee. I got him to show me the exact locality of the bruise, (laughter,) and the next Saturday I called him out to fight. (Continued merriment.) I watched my opportunity, and brought my boot against the bruise, when Joe bellowed like a calf, and cried ”enough." I went to the head. (Great laughter.) The rebellion has a sorer spot than” Joe Darragh's” bruise, and a good blow on it would be effectual.
If the proper policy had been pursued at Beaufort in regard to the slaves, there would have been a howl in rebeldom before this time. The whole slave population would have been in motion towards freedom, and everything that stood in their path would be swept away. (Applause.) You ask, would not that be cruel? I say if we are to carry on this war to kill our own people instead of the rebels, we had better stop now. If it be inhuman, they have means to prevent it; let them return to their allegiance, and they shall be kindly received. But if the war is to be continued, we will use all the means in our power to conquer them. (Cheers.) This war shall never close while the shackles remain upon one slave. (Great applause.)
But we can't admit the slaves within our lines, because they will betray us. That's a lie! I would like to ask Gen. Halleck where he learnt that slaves betrayed our troops. (A voice-“ At Washington.") We had in our Brigade five hundred slaves, and we received more valuable information from them as to the movements of the enemy, than from all other sources besides. They are faithful and grateful. They would die a thousand deaths rather than betray one secret of their liberators. It is not enough to replace upon their limbs the shackles-they must be lied about. Gen. Halleck's experience may be different from mine; but where did he get his experience? Don't understand me as denouncing Gen. Halleck; but I have been taught to denounce wrong-to vindicate the weak-and when I fail to do it, may God condemn me to the infernal regions. I have never seen Gen. Halleck-he is a stranger, to me; but he has made a statement that I know to be false. (Applause.)
I have half a mind to relate an anecdote to show how the slaveholders cling to their property. (Voices-"Do it; do it.") Well, I will. We were marching to Springfield-I was in the rear of the column-when I was informed by one of my men that a woman in great distress wanted to see me. I told him to bring her to me, and he did. She was a big, brawny woman-fat, and over forty,-and was crying. I asked her what the matter was. She said,” My two sons have joined the Confederate army, and now your soldiers have taken my two niggers." Said I,” My good woman,” that is not the worst thing that could happen to you. I am on the track of your sons, and I shall probably catch them in a day or two, and hang them." (Laughter.) She threw her arms about my neck, and said,” General Lane, you may do what you want with my sons, if you'll only return the niggers." (Great laughter.) I disengaged myself from her embrace, but didn't promise to return her niggers.
The Secessionists have four thousand Indians in their ranks. Last week they took three of my men, tied them to trees, and riddled them with balls. What should be done with these Indians? (A voice-" Swear them in, and let them go.") Yes. Missouri has been sworn over not less than three times already. (Laughter.)
I desire to say something in behalf of the Kansas Brigade. They are charged with being” Jay-hawkers." I say many of them are men of principle- godly men. Sturgis, after being with the Brigade a short time, called it a damned (I don't know as I ought to say it, as I see the reporters here) fanatical, temperance Brigade. I have been with them three months, and I never saw a man intoxicated. At Osceola they knocked the heads, out of five hundred barrels of whiskey, and never touched a drop. The first order issued to that Brigade made it an offence punishable with death for any soldier to enter a private house. without permission of a superior officer. If we are” Jay-hawkers," we are so for you, through the Government. My soldiers have taken thousands of sacks of salt from the storehouses of Missouri, and distributed it among the loyal men of the State. I saw Adjutant General Thomas's charge against me before it was made public, and I immediately sat down and wrote to General Hunter, pronouncing the charge false and
<c04>
scandalous, and demanding an investigation. (Applause.) It is said that we stole women and children's clothing. In answer to that I can only say that I am not responsible if niggers are men. (Laughter.) A number of slaves, men, women and children, took it into their heads, in a certain instance, to be free, and they furnished themselves with a portion of the clothing of their former owners. They made a fair division, I have no doubt. I was not responsible. (Laughter.) All I did was to see. that the white babies did not deprive the black babies of their clothing. (Continued laughter.)
The only way we can bring this contest to a successful issue is by striking directly and with all our power at the foundation. I would oppose bowie- knife to bowie-knife, Indian to Indian, nigger to nigger, and freedom to slavery. (Cheers.) If you do not like that plan, furnish a substitute, equally powerful, for closing the war. Our present policy will cause the war to drag along for years. You cannot with the same army crush out treason and preserve slavery. There must be two armies to do that, and it will cost more to preserve slavery than to crush out treason. Write ”Freedom," then, on all your banners, and the spirit of the old Crusaders will animate your armies, firmness and steadiness will be imparted to your purpose, victory will be gained, and a permanent peace secured.
The meeting broke up with cheers for ”Gen. Lane and the Kansas Brigade, and Gen. Fremont."
The Boston Courier notices this straight-forward and telling speech in the following characteristic strain of ribaldry:—
GENERAL JIM LANE.:- A helter-skelter abolition harangue fitly closed the anti-slavery exercises of last week. The address of General Lane speaks for itself. It is equally unprincipled, inconsequential and vulgar; the speech of a marauder, not a statesman—and what a man this is, to take his seat in the once honorable Senate of the United States! The tone of his sentiment may be seen in the graceful anecdote he gives of himself and” Joe Darragh." The small craft, in ascertaining the place of his rival's bruise, and his generous use of this stolen advantage, shows what a” Jayhawker” he is. And then to tell of it, too, with such consciousness of merit, proves what a successful effort he must have made long since to overcome not only his native modesty, but all other qualities usually attributed to a soldier and a gentleman. The audience appears to have been not very full, but sympathetic. A timely snow-storm kept back some of the strong-minded women and weak-minded men, especially from the neighboring towns; still, they were represented, and their representatives evidently enjoyed the intellectual and patriotic entertainment provided.
As the report we publish of Gen. Lane's speech is mainly the Courier's own, (and therefore none too favorable,) our readers can easily decide as to the justice of such a criticism. (?) The rattlesnake venom of the Courier is ejected because Gen. Lane goes for liberty, and not for slavery. But here is a tribute of a very different character, and from the right quarter:
THE WESTERN LIBERATOR.
In the list of vindictive and partisan presses, we know none equal to the St. Louis Republican. For weeks and months it has vented its spleen upon Gen. Lane and his heroic little Spartan command. They have been represented as thieves and outlaws, knowing no watchword but plunder, and hesitating at no crime which might inure to their material profit. Justice to Gen. Lane and his brigade demands that these wicked defamations and unfounded falsehoods be hurled in the teeth of their characterless authors. The march of Gen. Lane through Missouri was a triumphal progress. From Kansas City to Greenfield he was presented with three flags—evidencing the confidence and devotion of the people.
With less than twelve hundred men, General Lane marched eight hundred miles through an enemy's country. And the shout of joy ever greeted his coming. At Springfield, where a grand junction of the Federal forces took place, under Gen. Fremont, to meet the combined hosts of the rebels, no name aroused such unbounded enthusiasm among the different divisions of our Grand Western Army. The rank and file were wild in expressing their adulation, and the air was vocal with cheers for ”Jim Lane, THE LIBERATOR."
Everywhere, the loyal citizens rallied around his standard, and hailed his approach as the coming of a mailed warrior, battling for Liberty, and their deliverance from an unholy usurpation. He relieved the poor, sustained and strengthened whole communities, and scattered the necessaries and comforts of life among those who had been robbed of their little all. His name was clothed with no terror, save to those whose guilty hands sought their country's ruin.
And now that the record of a brief campaign stands before the country, we challenge any command to show equality of service on behalf of the Union with that of the Kansas brigade. Poorly equipped and armed, they have marched hundreds of miles through the enemy's country, fronted any danger that threatened, known no reverse in their numberless engagements, and inaugurated a principle on which alone this war can be carried to a successful issue.
In the organization and movements of this Kansas brigade, Gen. Lane has been the moving spirit and the rallying-cry. The devotion of his men is without parallel, and it but represents a feeling universal in our new Department. And when the defamers of Gen. Lane and his brigade pour out their vile slanders, let the sentiment of the people of the United States (which is almost united in support of the General) be held up to their view—a sentiment which will yet make itself felt throughout the nation, and demand that those alone must wear the laurel to whom Justice and Merit point.—Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative.
LABORS IN VERMONT.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-It was my <Illegible> when I finished my recent lecturing tour in Vermont, to have given the friends of our cause a brief sketch of its apparent interests and successes at an earlier day.
No lecturing tour which I have ever made in New England has been attended by so many earnest auditors. With but two exceptions, my meetings were large, and, in some cases, very large. In every instance but one—as far as I could learn—the clergymen gave notice of my meetings when requested, and in many instances attended the meetings, and, in two, invited me to speak for the slave in their pulpits, during one of the regular services of their Sunday meetings. These two instances were in Peacham and Bradford. To my most radical utterances, in relation to the antagonism of slavery to Christian civilization, and the progress and happiness of the race, there was, in every case, an earnest and quick response. To the demand that slavery, the cause of the war, should be wiped out from the land, there was a response equally earnest and quick.
My labors were made exceedingly pleasant by the kindness and sympathy and earnest cooperation of the friends of our glorious cause. I am especially indebted, for the success of my labors, and for the peace and comfort of my flesh and spirit, to the hospitality and sympathy of the Hutchinsons, the Spears—to our ever-zealous and faithful friend Claflin—to our friend Coburn—to Rev. Mr. Stone of Northfield—to Rev. Mr. Bliss of Barre-to the friends at Danville Green-to our friend Johnson and the Congregational clergyman of Peacham-to Whipple, Burrell and others, in St. Johnsbury—to Rev. Mr. Palmer of Waterford-to friends in Concord—to the friends at McIndoes Falls—to the friends at Rye Gate—to our well-known and long-tried friend, Rev. Mr. Johnston of Topsham -to the Seavers and other friends at Washington—to Mr. Winship and Rev. D. McKeene of Bradford—to the Comings in Cornish, N. H.—to the Coopers in Croydon—to our ever-faithful friends in Brattleboro', Vt.—and to our ever-faithful and loving friend Webb of Keene, N. H. All these dear friends, and many others, whose names have escaped me, are embalmed in my affectionate and grateful remembrance. To a Mr. Hanks of Bethel, I am under especial obligations for his hospitality and kindness in taking me with his team many miles to my next appointment: also, to a poor man who, having nothing else to give, called to me as I passed his house, on the morning after my meeting, in Bethel, and presented me with a string of the largest-sized gensin roots I ever saw. They were worth at least fifty cents at the apothecaries, and to me, as an expression of his interest in the cause of humanity, they were above all price.
I spent a pleasant week at Brattleboro', at the Cold Water Establishment of our friend Francis. This is the oldest-with one exception—of the numerous family of water cure establishments in the country;
<c05>
and it is deservedly the most popular. The establishment is large, convenient, and as well adapted to its design as money and genius could make it. The water is of the purest, sweetest kind. All the baths known to hydropathy are here in perfection. The scenery around is of the most beautiful and inspiring character. Taking all things into account, the healthful atmosphere, the purity of the water, the skill of the medical department, the beauty of the scenery, and the urbanity and kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Francis, I think this the very place of all places to heal diseased bodies, and to revive desponding spirits and sweeten sour tempers. I would advise all my friends who need medical aid to seek it here.
My recent contact with the great heart of the people assures me that the demand for the removal of slavery, the bitter root that poisons all our happiness, is becoming imperative, and will be obeyed.
Yours, in the CONTEST and in the VICTORY,
A. T. FOSS.
Ferdinand Wood, who represents the rascality, rowdyism and rebellion of New York, has failed to secure his reelection as Mayor of that city—Mr. Opdyke (Republican) being the successful candidate. A great deliverance! Now let Boston, on Monday next, make Mayor J. M. Wightman” walk the plank” as summarily, and redeem her tarnished character!
The lecture of Frederick Douglass, on” Pictures and Progress," before the Fraternity Association, at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday evening, was creditably written and warmly applauded.
The Letter of Gerrit Smith to Edwin Croswell, in another column, we copy from a printed circular kindly sent to us by the author. Read it.
WILL OF THE LATE FRANCIS JACKSON.
The Will of the late Francis Jackson, of this city, has been presented for probate. It is a lengthy document, and was signed on the 28th of January last. His brother, Edmund Jackson, is made executor of the Will.
He gives $100 each to Stephen S. Foster, Abby Kelley Foster, Charles C. Burleigh, Parker Pillsbury, Lucy Stone, Lydia Maria Child, Oliver Johnson, Charles Lenox Remond, Charles K. Whipple and Robert F. Wallcut,” as a token of esteem for their fidelity to moral principle, and their devotion to the cause of human freedom."
For a like reason he gives to Wm. Lloyd Garrison the sum of $4000, to be used in support of himself and wife, and the education of Francis J. Garrison at Harvard College, after he shall have left the public schools of Boston. 
He appoints Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Edmund Quincy, Maria W. Chapman, Edmund Jackson, William I. Bowditch, Samuel May, Jr., and Chas. K. Whipple, a Board of Trustees to receive funds designated in the Will to be used to create a public sentiment in favor of putting an end to negro slavery-leaving a bequest of $10,000 in their hands for this purpose.
He constitutes Mr. Phillips as President, Mr. E. Jackson as Treasurer, and Mr. Whipple as Secretary of this Board.
He also gives to this Board $2000, to be used in aid of fugitive slaves, and in this connection speaks as follows:-
" Disregarding the self-evident Declaration of 1776, repeated in her own Constitution of 1780, that ‘all men are born free and equal,' Massachusetts has since, in the face of those solemn declarations, deliberately entered into a conspiracy with other States, to aid in enslaving millions of innocent persons. I have long labored to help my native State out of her deep iniquity, and her barefaced hypocrisy in this matter—I now enter my last protest against her inconsistency, her injustice, and her cruelty, toward an unoffending people. God save the fugitive slaves that escape to her borders, whatever may become of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts"!
He appoints Wendell Phillips, Lucy Stone and Susan B. Anthony a Board of Trustees, and gives them $5000, to be used to secure the passage of laws granting women the right to vote, hold office, &c.
He says that he has given each of his three children eight thousand dollars heretofore. The balance of his estate is to be divided into three equal parts.
The income of one part is to be given to a daughter and her children, and at their decease the principal is to go to the Trustees having charge of the Women's Rights Fund.
The income of the other two-thirds to his other children, and their children, and at their decease, the principal is to be given to -the Trustees who have in charge the matter of creating a public sentiment in favor of the abolition of negro slavery.-Boston Traveller.
CONGRESS—IMPORTANT. In the Senate, on Tuesday, a resolution was introduced, for the release of colored persons confined in prison in Washington by persons calling themselves Justices of the Peace.
Mr. Hale advocated the resolution. saying he thought the community of Washington the most corrupt in the country, and urged that it was the duty of Congress to look into the administration of justice in this District.
The resolution was referred to the Committee on the District of Columbia, to report immediately the names of all persons confined in jail in the city and the causes of their commitment, the names of the magistrates by whom they were committed, and the names of the persons who made the first arrest.
A resolution was passed that the laws now in force in the District of Columbia, relating to the arrest of fugitives from service, together with all other laws concerning persons of color within the District, be referred to the Committee on the District of Columbia, and that the Committee be instructed to consider the expediency of abolishing slavery within the District, with compensation to the owners of the slaves.
Senator Wilson has just introduced a bill, providing for the punishment of all officers or privates of any regiment who shall return fugitive slaves to their rebel masters.
Senator Sumner made some severe comments in the Senate this morning, upon General Halleck's recent order, forbidding slaves to enter the lines of the Western army, and says it is a mistaken and mischievous policy.
WHEELING, Va., Dec. 2. In the Convention, today, Mr. Hogan, of Barne, offered the following:—
Whereas, negro slavery is the origin and foundation of our national troubles, and the cause of the terrible rebellion in our midst that is seeking to overthrow our Government; and, Whereas, slavery is incompatible with the word of-God, detrimental to the interest of a free people, as well as wrong to slaves themselves, —therefore,
Resolved, That the Convention inquire into the expediency of making the proposed new State a free State, and a provision be inserted for the gradual emancipation of all slaves within the proposed boundaries of the new State, to be submitted to the people of the same for their approval or rejection.
Referred to the Committee on Fundamental and General Provisions.
ANTI-SLAVERY PROGRESS. The following unwilling testimony is borne by the editor of the New York Commercial Advertiser: “It is he says,” unquestionably true that a large element of the North would see every trace of slavery obliterated as our armies move southward. It is true that this feeling is not confined to what is called the old abolition party, but is largely shared by those who were formerly known as our most conservative citizens."
TIT FOR TAT. On Monday last, resolutions were adopted in the U. S. House of Representatives, requesting the President to subject Messrs. Slidell and Mason to the same kind of imprisonment as Colonels Corcoran and Wood are now undergoing. A resolution tendering the thanks of Congress to Commodore Wilkes for his conduct in the Mason and Slidell affair, was also adopted.
The Philadelphia Enquirer publishes an extract of a letter purporting to be dated Charleston, 23d ult., from a lady, which states that no general slave insurrection had yet taken place, though several revolts had been attempted, two quite recently, in which whole families were murdered before the states were subdued. These occurred in the interior of South Carolina. The authors of the crime were BURNED TO DEATH!! That is slaveholding infernalism!
Southern papers received at Baltimore contain a dispatch from Nashville, Tenn., which gives intelligence of a barbarous transaction by the Kentucky rebels. The dispatch is dated Nov. 27th, and says:—
" The Louisville Courier of yesterday learns that a squad of twelve men were sent to Franklin, Ky., on Monday last, to arrest some Lincolnites who were committing depredations in the neighborhood. The Lincolnites had collected to the number of twelve or fifteen, at the house of one of their number. The owner of the house defied our squad, and fired upon our men, killing one, and wounding one or two others. Our men charged upon the house, set fire to it, and burnt up all the men in it, except two, who escaped. A detachment of twenty-five cavalry arrived at Franklin to arrest the parties implicated."
<c06>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH 
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that” the old Abolitionists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfillment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kipdled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, or even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country. If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them, they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smoulder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it was more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity.
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that” a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do.
All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next. [Particulars hereafter.]
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Louisa Loring, Sarah P. Remond,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp,
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay, Abby F. Manley,
Katherine Earle Farnum.
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
DONATIONS.
Contribution of Middlesex Co. A. S. Society, $5.00
Collections by C. L. Remond, Danvers Port, 0.65
Joshua Perry, (pledge,) May,1860, 5.00
Mrs. Chapman, 100.00 
EDMUND JACKSON,. Treasrer.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery- Society, will speak in
Carmel, Maine, Sunday, Dec. 8.
Etna, Maine,” Monday, Dec,” 9.
Hampden Corner, Maine," Tuesday, Dec,” 10.
Bucksport, Maine,” Thursday, Dec,” 12.
Orland, Maine,” Friday, Dec,” 13.
Ellsworth, Maine,” Sunday, Dec,” 15.
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Canaan, N. Y., Sunday, Dec. 8.
Roundout, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) Tuesday, Dec. 10.
Ellenville, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) Thursday, Dec 12.
Greenfield, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) Friday, Dec. 13.
Ellenville, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) Sunday, Dec.15.
Homowack, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) Monday, Dec. 16.

MEETING AT ESSEX. —On Sunday next, Dec. 8, CHARLES L. REMOND and PARKER PILLSBURY will hold THREE meetings, at the usual hours, in the Century Chapel, at Essex. Subject: The War-Its CAUSE and CURE.
Mr. Pillsbury will also lecture this [Friday] evening, at 7 o'clock, in Manchester.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will address the citizens of MILFORD, (Mass.) in the Town Hall, on Slavery and the War, on Friday evening., Dec. 13th.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M. D.;; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
DIED—In Cambridge port, Nov. 28, Mrs. NANCY BUCK, aged 82. TERMS REDUCED,
AT the Round Hill Water-Curein Northampton, Mass., to $7 and $10 per week. Open Summer and Winter. DR. HALSTED’S success in the treatment of Woman's diseases is well known. The cure is speedy and reliable. Those brought on beds, even, are soon enabled to walk. Over four hundred eases of spinal diseases, paralysis and loss of the use of limbs have been restored; and numerous cures have been made of various stubborn difficulties which had lingered without help for years. For the success in treating more ordinary complaints, and the great favor given the Turkish Chemical and other Baths, sec circular sent gratis.
Needing a little change, and desirous to confer as well as to receive benefit, Dr. H. will make a few professional visits, travelling expenses being paid, without charge.
Northampton, Oct. 30.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1861. 3m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
HALLOWED GROUND.
BY CAMPBELL.
What's hallowed ground?-Has earth a clod
Its Maker meant should not be trod
By man, the image of his God,
Ereet and free,
Unscourged by Superstition's rod
To bow the knee?
That's hallowed ground-where, mourned and missed,
The lips repose our love has kissed;-
But where's their memory's mansion? Is't
Yon church-yard's bowers?
No; in ourselves their souls exist,
A part of ours.
What hallows ground where heroes sleep?
'Tis not the sculptured piles you heap!
In dews that heavens far distant weep,
Their turf may bloom;
Or genii twine beneath the deep
Their coral tomb.
But strew his ashes to the wind
Whose sword or voice has served mankind-
And is he dead, whose glorious mind
Lifts thine on high?
To live in hearts we leave behind
Is not to die.
Is't death to fall for Freedom's right?
He's dead alone that lacks her light!
And murder sullies in Heaven's sight
The sword he draws:-
What can alone ennoble fight?
A noble cause!
Give that! and welcome War to brace
Her drums! and rend heaven's reeking space!
The colors painted face to face,
The charging cheer,
Though Death's pale horse led on the chase,
Shall still be dear!
And place our trophies where men kneel
To Heaven!-but Heaven rebukes my zeal!
The cause of truth and human weal,
O God above!
Transfer it from the sword's appeal
To peace and love!
Peace, love! the cherubim, that join 
Their spread wings o'er Devotion's shrine;-
Prayers sound in vain, and temples shine
Where they are not;-
The heart alone can make divine
Religion's spot.
To incantations dost thou trust,
And pompous rites in domes august?
See moldering stones and metal's rust
Belie the vaunt,
That man can bless one pile of dust
With chime or chant.
Fair stars! are not your beings pure?
Can sin, can death your worlds obscure?
Else why so swell the thoughts at your
Aspect above?
Ye must be Heaven's that make us sure
Of heavenly love!
And in your harmony sublime
I read the doom of distant time;
That man's regenerate soul from crime
Shall yet be drawn,
And reason on his mortal clime
Immortal dawn.
What's hallowed ground? ‘Tis what gives birth
To sacred thoughts in souls of worth!-
Peace! independence! truth! go forth
Earth's compassed round;
And your high priesthood shall make earth
All hallowed ground.

"ASPIRE."
BY M. F. TUPPER.
Higher, higher, ever higher,-
Let the watchword be, "Aspire!"
Noble Christian youth;
Whatsoe'er be God's behest,
Try to do that duty best,
In the strength of Truth.
Let a just Ambition fire
Every motive and desire
God and Man to serve;
Man, with zeal and honor due,
God, with gratitude most true,
And all the spirit's nerve!
Let not Doubt thine efforts tire:
God will give what all require,
Raiment, home, and food;
And with these contented well,
Bid thine aspirations swell
To the Highest Good!
From the perils, deep and dire,
Of Temptation's sensual mine,
Keep thy chastened feet;
Dread, and hate, and turn away
From the lure that leads astray,
Satan's pleasure-cheat!
And, while thus a self-denier,
Stand the stalwart self-relier,-
Bravely battling en,
Though alone,-no soul alive
Ever stoutly dared to strive,
But saw the battle won?
Higher, then, and always higher,-
Let Man's motto be, "ASAPIRE!"
Where'er he be,-
Holy liver! happy dier!
Earth's poor best, and Heaven's choir,
Are reserved for thee!

PRESS ON!
BY N. P. WILLIS.
We shall go forth together. There will come 
Alike the day of trial unto all,
And the rude world will buffet us alike.

Temptation hath a music for all ears;
And mad Ambition trumpeteth to all;
And the ungovernable thoughts within
Will be in every bosom eloquent;-
But when the silence and the calm come on,
And the high seal of character is set,
We shall not all be similar. The flow
Of lifetime is a graduated scale,
And deeper than the vanities of power,
Or the vain pomp of glory, there is writ
A standard measuring its worth for heaven.
The pathway to the grave may be the same,
And the proud man shall tread it, and the low,
With his bowed head, shall bear him company.
Decay will make no difference, and death,
With his cold hand, shall make no difference;
And there will be no precedence of power,
In waking at the coming trump of God;
But in the tempter of the invisible mind,
The godlike and undying intellect,
There are distinctions that will live in heaven,
When time is a forgotten circumstance!
The soul of man
Createth its own destiny of power;
And as the trial is intenser here,
His being hath a nobler strength in heaven.
What is its earthly victory? Press on!
For it hath tempted angels. Yet press on!
For it shall make you mighty among men;
And from the eyrie of your eagle thought
Ye shall look down on monarchs. O press on!
For the high ones and powerful shall come
To do you reverence: and the beautiful
Will know the purer language of your brow,
And read it like a talisman of love!
Press on! for it is godlike to unloose
The spirit, and forget yourself in thought;
Bending a pinion for the deeper sky,
And, in the very fetters of your flesh,
Mating with the pure essences of heaven!
Press on! "for in the grave there is no work,
And no device."-Press on! while yet ye may!

<c02>
The Liberator
KEEP IT BEFORE THE PEOPLE,
That this infernal rebellion is an inevitable and direct result of American slavery. Let no side issues for a moment divert us. By every power within human means that can be brought to bear upon the people at home, the brave soldiers abroad in the fight, and the government, through press and pulpit, blazon broad and high the verdict of a thirty years' history, that this is A SLAVEHOLDERS’ REBELLION, cruel and relentless!
Of its barbarous character, there is crowded into less than a twelvemonth an amount and strength of evidence never before paralleled. The long catalogue of its crimes is but too familiar to us all. There is nothing in the country or in its relations, except slavery, which could have engendered this mighty strife. Diversity of interests in the sections, whether of business or religion, in the short space of eighty years, however sharp their competitions, furnishes no expiation of the mighty events which now pass before us.
All men may harmlessly shape and force the powers of external nature to do their bidding. The waves of the sea and the storm, the cataract and the red lightning, may be disrobed of their terrors at the touch of genius. Unconquerable will and the farthest stretch of human power over nature are productive of incalculable benefit to all; but no man-well or ill-born-can be vested with irresponsible power over his fellow-men without degenerating into a tyrant. This result is as inevitable as necessity itself. A few years' exercise of such power over the weak and friendless cannot fail to exhibit the evidence of this truth. Twenty or thirty years' practice will surely confirm it,
and bring to view, in all their disgusting deformity, the wide extremes of the tyrant and the slave. Tyranny, ambitious and unjust, low and selfish in its aims, and bending all things to its relentless sway, it preys alike upon the individual and society. To compass its ends, it inflicts its insidious poison into both social and political life till institutions of freedom dissolve before it, or in the whirlwind of passion it sweeps away the choicest fabrics of government and society. Freeman and slave alike are but the tools of its cruel ambition. To rule or ruin is its governing motive. Peaceably if it can, forcibly if it must. It is confined to no age or country. It is visible everywhere and under all conditions, varying only in degree; and it should be among the highest duties of a good government, by force, if need be, to arrest it in its earliest exhibitions.
It is the unfortunate condition of this country, thus early in its history, to be cursed by a form of tyranny which has its root in slavery. This dreadful conflict is the result of its insolent machinations throughout the vast departments of our government. Under a professed respect for law and order in the desecrated name of "democracy,” by secret and damnable plottings, it had at length all but crushed out the political life of the nation. With the army and navy crippled and dispersed by a traitorous administration, the fell doctrine of secession had well-nigh culminated in the subjugation or dismemberment of the Union; and for the first time in our history on a scale never before surpassed in wickedness, the government was to have been prostrated by a slaveholders' conspiracy to be forever held in subjection to its sway.
The people of the North, with their thoughts engrossed by matters that tell for peace, had been unmindful of the extent or designs of those who had held the reins for so many years. But when Sumter fell, the people awoke from sleep as by the "crack of doom." The bearings and magnitude of the conspiracy were soon known. Resistance and conflict were inevitable. Thirty-three millions of people, with opportunities unsurpassed in the tide of time, were not only forced into this suicidal war, but by complication of their foreign relations rendered liable at any moment to be dragged into a war with one or more of the powerful nations on the opposite side of the sea.
And yet we have among us, even while the contest thickens, and at a time when the best endeavors of the government are put forth to save us, apologists for American slavery, who cannot or will not see any necessary connection between it and this foul rebellion. Instead of loyally seconding the efforts of the patriotic, these men traitorously labor for a "peace" which, if attained, would be but the inauguration of new and interminable ills.
Let us listen to no peace that is not preceded by the utter destruction of rebellion; no peace that has not its foundations laid in the highest and broadest liberty for ALL. Let no vacillation mark the courage of the people or the policy of the government. Carry the war, if need be, to the remotest extreme of "Africa." At every step of its resistance, let the rebellion feel the dread power of the insulted and mighty North. On its head and front let the blows fall thick and fast. Overbearing in her insolence and pride, let South Carolina, the seat of secession and foremost among her recreant sisters, let this war which she precipitated upon us press the chalice to her lips. If she still resist, lay her boasted capital in the dust, and make its site as wide of discovery to the antiquary in future years as that of Babylon or Ninevah. And, finally, let slavery and secession rest forever in a common grave. W.

"REASONS FOR WITHDRAWING FROM THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH."
Such is the title of a letter (published in pamphlet form) from Rev. Hiram Mattison to Rev. James Erwin, Presiding Elder of the Rome District, Black River Conference.
For twenty-five years past, Mr. Mattison has been an able and faithful minister, connected with the Black River Conference in the State of New York. Perhaps for the whole of that time, but certainly for many years past, he has been diligent and zealous in protesting against the toleration of slaveholding in the Methodist Episcopal Church; and he was one of the most faithful of that noble minority who, at the quadrennial General Conference held last year in New York, were defeated in their attempt to purge the Northern church from the guilt of slaveholding. Though many bitter reproaches were poured upon him by those Methodists who wished still to temporize with slavery, his patience and moderation have been shown, both by his waiting thus long before withdrawal-in the hope that faithful labor might still reform the Northern Methodist Church-and by the calmness of the language in which he now sets forth that Church's guilt.
The second of the two reasons which Mr. Mattison gives for his withdrawal is the following:-
II. There are several things in the GOVERNMENT and ECONOMY of the M. E. Church which I regard as unscriptural, and tending to ecclesiastical despotism.
Under this head he gives six specifications, which may profitably be pondered by members of the church in question. His first and chief reason for withdrawing, however, is founded on slavery, and must be deeply interesting to every opposer of that wickedness. It is as follows:-
I. I am not willing to take my passport for eternity from a Church in which there are THOUSANDS OF SLAVEHOLDERS in good and regular standing; and that, too, without rebuke either in the discipline of the Church, or by the administration.
Even according to the lowest estimates of official apologists for Methodist slaveholding, (Drs. Stephens and Baird, for instance,) there are not less than FIVE THOUSAND SLAVEHOLDERS now in the Methodist Episcopal Church, owning thirty-five thousand slaves; but to my positive knowledge, these figures do not represent half the slaveholders in the Methodist Episcopal Church, nor half the slaves held by them. Nor is this all; Methodists in our "Northern Church," as some style it, in Maryland and Virginia, and Kentucky and Missouri, buy and sell slaves with impunity; and even members of Conferences are publicly known to own from two to forty slaves, without a shadow of rebuke or censure.
These facts are known to our Bishops, and Presiding Elders, and Conferences, and have been for years; and yet, instead of seeking to reform or exclude the offenders, the chief effort of the government and
<c03>
the periodical press of the church has been to make slaveholding respectable and Christian; and to screen the owners of and dealers in human flesh and blood from punishment and disgrace.
As a part of this process, the government of the church and the official editors, (generally committed to the same policy,) have found it necessary, by all means in their power, to resist and put down, instead of helping and honoring, all those who were toiling to expose the dark iniquity, and to purify American Methodism from this foul plague-spot or disgrace.
For such reasons only, and by such terrible means, many noble men have perished, ecclesiastically if not literally, in the struggle against Methodist slaveholding; a record of whose martyrdom still lives with God, and will fill their persecutors with dismay, in the coming day of judgment.
I am aware that corruption in a church may not always justify withdrawal from it. But when it is tolerated in its polity, and protected in its administration; and when, as in the history of the Methodist Episcopal Church, honest and persevering efforts to rid the church of slaveholders, have generally resulted, not in the exclusion of a single slaveholder, but in the defaming and driving out of all earnest and persevering laborers for a non-slaveholding Christianity, there seems to be no hope that the M. E. Church will purge herself from this iniquity for years to come, if ever; or until the opportunity for so honoring Christ has passed away, by the legal abolition of slavery in these States.
Such being the state of things in the M. E. Church, my convictions being clear that to hold property in man is a sin against God, my fiftieth year being past, and my health precarious; I feel it my duty to withdraw from said church, as a solemn TESTIMONY and TROTEST against Methodist slaveholding and slave-trading; and in order that, when it shall please God to call me hence, I may take my departure for heaven, where I hope to dwell forever, "from a church having no man-stealers in its bosom, and holding no fellowship with slaveholders."
It is in no spirit of faintheartedness, nor indisposition to further labor, that Mr. Mattison takes the important step of withdrawing from a sect in which he has so long been one of the most active ministers. He gives this final testimony of withdrawal, because his former testimony of long and earnest labor for the purification of that church has been utterly unsuccessful; because, as he says-"there seems to be no hope that the Methodist Episcopal Church will purge herself from this iniquity for years to come, if ever; or until the opportunity of so honoring Christ has passed away, by the legal abolition of slavery in these States."
No one is better qualified than Mr. Mattison for judging how extensive is the present complicity of that church with slavery, and how little hope remains of its spontaneous self-purification. In 1859, after a long series of more private labors to the same end, he published an admirable pamphlet of 136 pages, entitled-"The Impending Crisis of 1860; or the present Connection of the Methodist Episcopal Church with Slavery, and Our Duty in regard to it." By this he hoped to arouse the Northern church, in the General Conference of 1860, to the utter exclusion of slaveholders, slave-traders and slave-breeders from its membership. They shamefully evaded the performance of this duty; and this most competent and trustworthy witness now testifies that among Northern Methodists there are, still, more than ten thousand slaveholders, owning more than seventy thousand slaves, and that there seems to be no hope of efficient action to remove them. It was time, indeed, that he should remove himself from membership with them.
The church claims to be "the salt of the earth and the light of the world." The government of this country, as of other countries, pretends to no high standard of religious principle, to nothing better than worldly expediency in managing its affairs. But the managers of the Methodist Episcopal Church are doing just what Abraham Lincoln and his "Republican" administration are doing, letting themselves drift with the current of events, as far as slavery is concerned, instead of making such strenuous efforts as men and Christians should do, to turn that current in the right direction. Whether or not the abolition of slavery shall come as an incidental and collateral result of the war, history must stigmatize both these bodies as having basely shrunk from the duty of open and active hostility to the worst foe of civil and religious liberty.-C. K. W.

A VOICE FROM THE WEST.
EDITOR OF LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR-I have recently received a letter, dated Nov. 13th, from a respected minister of the Gospel in Illinois, whose name I withhold, as the publication of it might cause him some trouble there; but I have his permission to give you the following extract for insertion in your paper. It may not, in all respects, echo your own sentiments; but I trust to your usual liberality to give it expression to the public. J. P. B
[EXTRACT.]
"In your second letter of the 7th inst., you allude to the new and discouraging obstacle to peace, resulting from the ‘growing conviction that there can be no permanent peace while slavery exists; and, therefore, that the war must be declared to be for emancipation, as much as for Union.'
I think I appreciate the sagacity of the war spirit, in seizing upon this powerful element of popular and religious prejudice to carry on its selfish schemes of avarice and despotism. It is an old trick of Satan, or the spirit of evil, which our religious teachers ought to be familiar with, and, certainly, would recognize, if they were not now its self-blinded dupes.
It seems to me that the error is here. God has, for the past thirty years, been sending his prophets of liberty and humanity-saying, Let my people go, on penalty of my unquenchable wrath! Destroy slavery, or it will destroy you as a nation! But we have perseveringly refused. We have idolized the Union. Not only have the principles of moral virtue been sacrificed, in profane adoration of its supremacy, but, on its bloody altar we have immolated hecatombs of God's poor; and now God has vindicated his supremacy and the sacredness of human rights, by demolishing that Union and filling the land with carnage and war.
It is now too late for the government of the United States to destroy slavery. God will never give it that honor: it is morally incapable. Doubtless, slavery is doomed; but not by such a faithless agency. Hence the lamentable mistakes of Gerrit Smith, Lewis Tappan, William Goodell, and the amiable Jocelyn, and others good and true, in upholding the government in this war of despotism, with the vain hope that its physical necessities may convert it into a war of emancipation. It seems to me that these distinguished philanthropists have strangely lost sight of fundamental principles. Do not these gentlemen know well, that the government of the United States, in this war, does not contest the right to hold slaves, but only to be independent? In upholding the government, therefore, in this war, they are not opposing the principle of chattel slavery, but of national independence. Are they willing thus to identify themselves with the old pest of history-the principle of the 'divine right of kings'? It is only the old bloody contest of prerogative and popular rights. And I am saddened at the fearful probability, that this war is to entail upon this generation, if not on posterity, this ancient and sanguinary controversy.
When will the people learn their rights; and, learning, have the virtue to maintain them? Must our unfortunate race always chafe under the yoke of aristocratic selfishness, and priestly servility and domination?"

In speaking of the hoisting the black flag by South Carolina, the Richmond correspondent of the Petersburg Express says:-
The spring of hope must now, with the Yankees, die upon the winter winds. Already has the black flag been hoisted upon the soil of South Carolina, and war to the knife, the knife to the hilt, and thence to the shoulder, been proclaimed by her noble sons as the only booty which Yankee hireling invaders shall receive at their hands. This is right. It is the only way to conquer a peace with a people so lost and degraded as those which compose the grand army of the rump government. We look anxiously for news from the sunny South; hopefully, prayerfully, with no misgivings. Now that the rallying cry is "no quarter to the invaders of our soil," may we not believe that the course inaugurated by South Carolina will be followed up by our whole army, and thus end this war? "So mote it be."
The Washington correspondent of the New York Tribune says the soldiers at Beaufort and the slaves on the Island will soon be picking the ungathered cotton. The former under an order from the War Department, the latter upon the impulse of wages directed to be paid them by Gen. Sherman. It is also probable that the cultivation of the Sea Island for the next crop of cotton will be contracted for with some responsible Yankee, who will be required to employ the slaves abandoned by their masters upon the several plantations.
<c04>
Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
(Concluded.)
Never in history did Rebellion assume such a front. Call their numbers 400,000 or 200,000-what you will-they far surpass any armed forces ever before martialed in rebellion; they are among the largest ever martialed in war.
And all this is in the name of slavery, and for the sake of slavery, and at the bidding of slavery. The profligate favorite of the English monarch-the famous Duke of Buckingham-was not more exclusively supreme-even according to those words by which he was exposed to the judgment of his contemporaries-
"Who rules the kingdom? The King.
Who rules the King; The Duke.
Who rules the Duke? The Devil."
The prevailing part here attributed to the royal favorite belongs now to slavery, which, in the rebel States, is a more than royal favorite.
Who rules the rebel States? The President.
Who rules the President? Slavery.
Who rules slavery?-
The latter question I need not answer. But all must see-and nobody can deny-that slavery is the ruling idea of this Rebellion. It is slavery which martials these hosts and breathes into their embattled ranks its own barbarous fire. It is slavery which stamps its character alike upon officers and men. It is slavery which inspires all, from the general to the trumpeter. It is slavery which speaks in the word of command, and which sounds in the morning drum-beat. It is slavery which digs trenches and builds hostile forts. It is slavery which pitches its white tents and stations its sentries over against the National Capital. It is slavery which sharpens the bayonet and casts the bullet; which points the cannon and scatters the shell, blazing, bursting with death. Wherever this Rebellion shows itself- whatever form it takes-whatever thing it does-whatever it meditates-it is moved by slavery; nay, it is slavery itself, incarnate, living, acting, raging, robbing, murdering, according to the essential law of its being.
But this is not all. The Rebellion is not only ruled by slavery, but owing to the peculiar condition of the Slave States, it is for the moment, according to their boast, actually reinforced by this institution. As the fields of the South are cultivated, and labor generally is performed by slaves, the white freemen are at liberty to play the part of rebels. The slaves toil at home, while the masters work at Rebellion, and thus by a singular fatality is this doomed race actually engaged, without taking up arms, in feeding, supporting, succoring, invigorating those who are now battling for their enslavement. Full well I know that this is an element of strength only through the indulgence of our own Government; but I speak now of things as they are; and that I may not seem to go too far, I ask your attention to the testimony of a Southern journal:-

THE SLAVES AS A MILITARY ELEMENT IN THE SOUTH. The total white population of the eleven States now comprising the Confederacy is 6,000,000, and, therefore, to fill up the ranks of the proposed army, (600,000) about ten per cent, of the entire white population will be required. In any other country than our own, such a draft could not be met; but the Southern States can furnish that number of men, and still not leave the material interests of the country in a suffering condition. Those who are incapacitated for bearing arms can oversee the plantations, and the negroes can go on undisturbed in their usual labors. In the North, the case is different; the men who join the army of subjugation are the laborers, the producers, and the factory operatives. Nearly every man from that section, especially those from the rural districts, leaves some branch of industry to suffer during his absence. The institution of slavery in the South alone enables her to place in the field a force much larger in proportion to her white population than the North, or indeed any country which is dependent entirely on free labor. The institution is a tower of strength to the South, particularly at the present crisis, and our enemies will be likely to find that the "moral cancer," about which their orators are so fond of prating, is really one of the most effective weapons employed against the Union by the South. Whatever number of men may be needed for this war, we are confident our people stand ready to furnish. We are all enlisted for the war, and there must be no holding back until the independence of the South is fully acknowledged.-Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser.
As the rebels have already confessed the Conspiracy which led to the Rebellion, so in this article do they openly confess the mainspring of their strength. With triumphant vaunt, they declare slavery to be the especial source of their belligerent power.
But slavery may be seen not only in what it has done for the Rebellion of which it is the indisputable head-the fountain and life-but also in what it has inflicted upon us. There is not a community-not a family-not an individual, man, woman or child- who does not feel its heavy, bloody hand. Why these mustering armies? Why this drum-beat in your peaceful streets? Why these gathering means of war? Why these swelling taxes? Why these unprecedented loans? Why this derangement of business? Why among us the suspension of the habeas corpus, and the prostration of all safe-guards of Freedom? Why this constant solicitude visible in all your faces? The answer is clear. Slavery is the author-the agent-the cause. The anxious hours that you pass are darkened by slavery. The habeas corpus and all those safe-guards of Freedom which you deplore have been prostrated by slavery. The business which you have lost has been filched by slavery. The millions of money now amassed by patriotic offerings are all snatched by slavery. The taxes now wrung out of your diminished means are all consumed by slavery. And all these gathering means of war-this drum-beat in your peaceful streets-and these mustering armies are on account of slavery, and nothing else. Do the poor feel constrained to forego their customary tea or coffee or sugar, now burthened by increased taxation? Let them pledge themselves anew against the criminal giant tax-gatherer. Does any community mourn gallant men, who, going forth joyous and proud beneath their country's flag, have been brought home cold and stiff, with its folds wrapped about them for a shroud? Let all who truly mourn the dead be aroused against slavery. Does a mother drop tears for a son in the flower of his days cut down upon the distant battle-field, which he moistens with his youthful, generous blood? Let her know that slavery dealt the deadly blow, which took at once his life and her peace.
But I hear a voice saying that all this proceeds- not from slavery-oh no! but from anti-slavery-that the Republicans who hate slavery-that the Abolitionists-are the authors of this terrible conflagration. Surely you may well suspect the sense or loyalty of him who puts forth this irrational and utterly wicked imputation. As well say that the early Christians were the authors of the Heathen enormities against which they bore their martyr testimony, and that the cross, the axe, the gridiron, and the boiling oil by which they suffered were a part of the Christian dispensation. But the early Christians were misrepresented and falsely charged with crime, even as you are. The tyrant Nero, after setting Rome on fire, and dancing at the conflagration, denounced the Christians as guilty of this wickedness. Here are the authentic words of the historian Tacitus:-
"So for the quieting of this rumor, Nero judicially charged with the crime, and punished with the most studied severities, that class, hated for their general wickedness, whom the vulgar call Christians. The originator of that name was one Christ, who, in the reign of Tiberias, suffered death by the sentence of the procurator, Pontius Pilate. The baneful superstition, thereby repressed for the time, again broke out, not only over Judea, the native soil of that mischief, but in the city also, where from every side all atrocious and abominable things collect and flourish." Annal. XV. 44.
The writer of these remarkable words was the wisest and most penetrating man of his generation, and he lived amidst the events which he describes. Perhaps in listening to him you may find an apology for those among us who heap upon contemporaries a similar obloquy. The Abolitionists need no defence from me. It is to their praise-destined to fill an immortal page-that from the beginning they saw the true character of slavery, and warned their country against its threatening domination. Through them the fires of Liberty have been kept alive in the United States-as Hume is constrained to confess that these same fires were kept alive in England by the Puritans, whom this great historian never praised if he could help it. And yet they are charged with this Rebellion. Can this be serious? Even at the beginning of the Republic the seeds of the Conspiracy were planted, and in 1820, and then again in 1830,
<c05>
it showed itself-while nearly thirty years ago Jackson denounced it, and one of its leading spirits has recently boasted that it has been gathering head for this full time, thus-not only in its distant embryo, but in its well-attested development-antedating those Abolitionists whose prophetic patriotism is now made the apology for the crime. As well-where the prudent passenger has warned the ship's crew of the fatal lee shore-arraign him for the wreck which has engulfed all; as well cry out that the philosopher who foresees the storm is responsible for the desolation that ensues, or that the astronomer, who calculates the eclipse, is the author of the darkness which covers the earth.
And now before closing, the way is prepared for me to open to you briefly the present situation, and its duties. You have seen slavery even before the Federal Union, not only a disturbing influence, but an actual bar to Union except on condition of surrender to its immoral behests. You have seen slavery at all times militant whenever any proposition was brought forward with regard to it, and more than once threatening a dissolution of the Union. You have seen slavery for many years the animating principle of a Conspiracy against the Union, while it matured its flagitious plans, and obtained the mastery of Cabinet and President. And when the Conspiracy had wickedly ripened, you have seen that it was only by concessions to slavery, that it was encountered, as by similar concessions it had from the beginning been encouraged. You now see Rebellion everywhere throughout the Slave States elevating its bloody crest, and threatening the existence of the National Government, and all in the name of slavery, while it proposes to establish a new government whose corner-stone shall be slavery.
Against this Rebellion we wage war. It is our determination, as it is our duty, to crush it; and this will be done. The region now contested by the rebels belongs to the United States by every tie of government and of right. Some of it has been bought by our money, while all of it-with its rivers, harbors and extensive coast-has become essential to our business in peace, and to our defence in war. Union is a geographical-economical-commercial- political-military-and if I may so say-even a fluvial necessity. Without Union, peace on this continent is impossible; but life without peace is impossible also.
Only by crushing this Rebellion can Union and peace be restored. Let this be seen in its reality, and who can hesitate? If this were done instantly -without further contest-then besides all the countless advantages of every kind obtained by such restoration, two especial goods will be accomplished-one political and the other moral as well as political. First, the pretended right of secession, with the whole pestilent extravagance of State Sovereignty, which has supplied the machinery for this Rebellion and afforded a delusive cover, for treason, will be trampled out-never again to disturb the majestic unity of the Republic. And, secondly, the unrighteous attempt to organize a new Confederacy solely for the sake of slavery, and with slavery as its cornerstone, will be overthrown. These two pretensions, one so shocking to our reason and the other so shocking to our moral nature, will disappear forever. And with their disappearance will commence a now epoch, the beginning of a grander period. But if by any accident the Rebellion should prevail, then just in proportion to its triumph, whether through concession on our part, or through successful force on the other part, will the Union be impaired, and Peace be impossible. Therefore, in the name of the Union and for the sake of Peace are you summoned to the work.
But how shall the Rebellion be crushed? That is the question. Men, money, munitions of war, a well supplied commissariat, means of transportation; all these you have in abundance-in some particulars beyond the rebels. You have too the consciousness of a good cause, which in itself is an army. And yet thus far-until within a few days-the advantage has not been on our side. The explanation is easy. The rebels are combatting at home on their own soil, strengthened and maddened by slavery, which is to them an ally and a fanaticism. More thoroughly aroused than ourselves-more terribly in earnest- with every sinew strained to the utmost-they freely use all the resources that God and nature put into their hands; raising against us not only the whole white population, but enlisting the war-whoop of the Indians- cruising upon the sea in pirate ships to despoil our commerce, and, at one swoop, confiscating our property to the extent of hundreds of millions of dollars, while all this time their four millions of slaves undisturbed at home are freely contributing by their labor to sustain the war which without them must soon expire.
It remains for us to encounter the Rebellion calmly and surely by a force superior to its own. But to this end something more will be needed than men or money. Our battalions must be reinforced by ideas, and we must strike directly at the Origin and Mainspring of the Rebellion. I do not say now in what way or to what extent; but simply that we must strike; it may be by the system of a Massachusetts General-Butler; it may be by that of Fremont; or it may be by the grander system of John Quincy Adams. Reason and Sentiment both concur in this policy, which is only according to the most common principles of human conduct. In no way can we do so much at so little cost. To the enemy such a blow will be a terror; to good men it will be an encouragement, and to foreign nations watching this contest, it will be an earnest of something beyond a mere carnival of battle. There has been the cry "On to Richmond," and still another worse cry "On to England." Better than either is the cry, "On to Freedom." Let this be heard in the voices of your soldiers; ay-let it resound in the purposes of the Government, and victory must be ours. By this sign conquer.
It is with no little happiness that I now announce that this cry is at last adopted by the Government. You will find it in the instructions from the Secretary of War, dated War Department, Oct. 14, 1861, and addressed to the general commanding the forces which have just effected a successful landing in South Carolina. Here are the important words:-
"You will, however, in general avail yourself of the services of any persons, whether fugitives from labor or not, who may offer them to the National Government; you will employ such persons in such services as they may be fitted for; either as ordinary employes, or, if special circumstances seem to require it, in any other capacity, with such organization, in squads, companies, or otherwise, as you deem most beneficial to the service. This, however, not to mean a general arming of them for military service. You will assure all loyal masters that Congress will provide just compensation to them for the loss of the services of the persons so employed."
These words have not the positive form of a proclamation; but, analyze them, and you will find them full of meaning. First, martial law, is hereby declared; for the powers committed to the discretion of the general are derived from that law and not from the late Confiscation Act of Congress. Secondly, fugitive slaves are not to be surrendered. Thirdly, all coming within the camp are to be treated as freemen. Fourthly, they may be employed in such service as they may be fitted for. Fifthly, in squads, companies or otherwise, with the single limitation that this is not to mean "a general arming of them for military service." And, sixthly, compensation, through Congress, is promised to loyal masters; saying nothing of rebel masters. All this is little short of a Proclamation of Emancipation-not unlike that of old Caius Marius, when he landed on the coast of Etruria, and, according to Plutarch, proclaimed liberty to the slaves. As such I do not err when I call it the most important event of the war-the more important because it is understood to have the deliberate sanction of the President as well as of the Secretary of War, and therefore marks the policy of the Administration. That this policy should be first applied to South Carolina is just. As the great Rebellion began in this State, so should the great Remedy.
Slavery is the inveterate culprit-the transcendent criminal-the persevering traitor-the arch rebel-the open outlaw. As the less is contained in the greater, so the Rebellion is all contained in slavery. The tenderness which you show to slavery is, therefore, tenderness to the Rebellion itself. The pious caution with which you avoid harming slavery is like that ancient superstition, which made the wolf sacred among the Romans, and the crocodile sacred among the Egyptians; nor shall I hesitate to declare that every surrender of a slave by your soldiers back to bondage is an offering of human sacrifice-whose shame is too great for any army to bear. That men should still hesitate to strike at slavery is only another illustration of human weakness. The English Republicans, in their bloody contest with the Crown, hesitated for a long time to fire upon the King; but under the valiant lead of Cromwell, surrounded by his well-trained Ironsides, they banished all such scruple, and you know well the result. The king was not shot, but his head was brought to the block.
<c06>
The duty which I suggest, if not urgent now, as a military necessity, in just self-defence, will present itself constantly on other grounds as our armies advance in the Slave States or land on their coasts. If it does not stare us in the face at this moment, it is because unhappily we are still everywhere on the defensive. As we begin to be successful, it must rise before us for practical decision; and you cannot avoid it. There will be slaves in your camps or within your extended lines whose condition you must determine. There will be slaves also claimed by rebels, whose continued chattelhood you will scorn to recognize. The decision of these two cases will settle the whole great question. Nor can the rebels complain. They challenge our armies to enter upon their territory in the free exercise of all the powers of war-according to which, as you well know, all private interests are subordinated to the public safety, which for the time becomes the supreme law above all other laws, and above the Constitution itself. If everywhere under the flag of the Union-in its triumphant march-Freedom is substituted for Slavery, this outrageous Rebellion will not be the first instance in history where God has turned the wickedness of man into a blessing; nor will the example of Sampson stand alone when he gathered honey out of the carcass of the dead and rotten lion.
Pardon me if I speak only in hints, and do not stop to argue or explain. Not now, at the close of an address, devoted to the Rebellion in its Origin and Mainspring, can I enter upon this great question of military duty in its details. There is another place where this discussion will be open to me. It is enough now if I indicate the simple principle which will be the natural guide of all who are really in earnest-of all whose desire to save their country is stronger than their desire to save slavery. You will strike where the blow will be most felt:; nor will you miss the precious opportunity. The enemy is before you; nay, he has come out in ostentatious challenge, and his name is slavery. You can vindicate the Union only by his prostration. Slavery is the very Goliah of the Rebellion, armed with a coat of mail, with a helmet of brass upon his head, greaves of brass upon his legs, a target of brass between his shoulders, and with the staff of his spear like a weaver's beam. But a stone from a simple sling will make the giant fall upon his face to the earth.
Thank God! our Government is strong; but thus far all signs denote that it is not strong enough to save the Union, and at the same time to save slavery. One or the other must suffer; and just in proportion as you reach forth to protect slavery, do you protect this accursed Rebellion; nay, you give to it that very aid and comfort which, under our Constitution, is treason itself. Perversely and pitifully do you postpone that sure period of reconciliation, not only between the two sections-not only between the men of the North and the men of the South, but, more beautiful still, between the slave and his master, without which that true tranquility, which we all seek, cannot be permanently assured to our country. Believe it; only through such reconciliation, under the sanction of Freedom, can you remove all occasion of contention hereafter; only in this way can you cut off the head of this great Rebellion, and at the same time extirpate that principle of Evil, which, if allowed to remain, must shoot forth in perpetual discord, if not in other rebellions; only in this way can you command that safe victory-without which this contest will be vain-which will have among its conquests Indemnity for the Past and Security for the Future -the noblest indemnity and the strongest security ever won-because founded in the redemption of a race.
Full well I know the doubts, cavils and misrepresentations to which this argument for the integrity of our Government is exposed; but I turn with confidence to the people. The heart of the people is right, and all great thoughts come from the heart. All who hate slavery and who are true to Freedom will join instinctively in this effort, paying with person, time, talent, purse. They are the minute men of this War-always ready: and yet more ready just in proportion as the War is truly inspired. They at least are sure. It only remains that others who do not share in this animosity to slavery-that merchants who study their ledgers-that bankers who study their discounts-and that politicians who study their discounts-and that politicians who study success-should see that only by a prompt and united effort against slavery can this War be brought to a speedy and triumphant close, without which merchant, banker and politician will all suffer alike. Ledger, discount and political aspiration will be of small value if the War continues its lava flood, shriveling and stifling everything but itself. Therefore, under the spur of self-interest, if not under the necessities of self-defence, we must act together. Humanity, too, joins in this appeal. Blood enough has been already shed-victims enough have been offered at the altar-even if you are willing to continue to slavery the tribute we are now paying of more than a million of dollars a day.
Events, too, under Providence, will be our masters. For the rebels there can be no true success. Every road for them leads to disaster. Defeat for them will be bad; but victory will be worse; for then will the North be inspired to a sublimer energy. The proposition of Emancipation which shook ancient Athens, followed close upon the disaster at Cheroncea; and the statesman who moved it afterward vindicated himself by saying that it proceeded not from him, but from Cheroncea. The Act of Congress, punishing the rebels by giving Freedom to their slaves employed against us-familiarly known as the Confiscation Act-passed the Senate on the morning after the disaster at Manassas. In the providence of God there are no accidents; and this seeming reverse thus helped the way to the greatest victory which can be won.
There is a classical story of a mighty hunter, whose life, in the Book of Fate, had been made to depend upon the preservation of a brand which was burning at his birth. The brand, so full of destiny, was snatched from the flames, and carefully preserved by his prudent mother. Meanwhile, the hunter became powerful and invulnerable to mortal weapons. But at length the mother, indignant at his cruelty to her own family, flung the brand upon the flames, and the hunter died. The story of that hunter, so powerful and invulnerable to mortal weapons, is now repeated in this Rebellion, and slavery is the fatal brand. Let our Government, which has thus far preserved slavery with maternal care, simply fling it upon the flames which itself has madly aroused, and the Rebellion will die at once.
Amidst all the perils which now surround us, there is one only which I dread. It is the peril which comes from some new surrender to slavery-some fresh recognition of its power-some present dalliance with its intolerable pretensions. Worse than any defeat or even the flight of an army would be such abandonment of principle. From all such peril, good Lord deliver us! And there is one way of safety, clear as sunlight-pleasant as the paths of Peace. Over its broad and open gate is written, simply, JUSTICE. There is victory in that word. Do justice, and you will be twice-blessed; for so you will subdue the rebel master while you elevate the slave. Do justice frankly, generously, nobly, and you will find strength instead of weakness, while all seeming responsibility will disappear in obedience to God's everlasting law. Do justice, though the Heavens fall;-but they will not fall. Every act of justice becomes a new pillar of the Universe, or it may be a new link of that
"golden, everlasting chain,
Whose strong embrace holds heaven and earth and main."

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
