THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
321 WASHINGTON STREET. ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS–Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania , Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:–WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMIND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXXIII. NO.33. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 14, 1863. WHOLE NO.1697.
Refuge of Oppression
<c01>
DRAFTING CLERGYMEN.
Until the passage of the Conscription bill, America had exercised no tyranny on the Church. There can be no doubt that Heaven blessed it for such justice. But, by the Conscription bill, it imposes military service on the Lord’s anointed, and plainly the act has rendered it odious to Christendom. The servants of Christ—the God of peace and of the universe—ought not to be dragged into the horrible exercise of war. America is alone in this matter. The ancient nations did not force their priests to become soldiers. Assyria, Egypt, Persia, Greece, Rome, and all other powers of antiquity, severe and almost constantly in action though their military laws were, never imposed the yoke of Mars on their priests. Those countries were Pagan in creed; but they looked on religion as the indispensable basis of empire, and its ministers they were never so sacrilegious as to impress. Modern Europe presents the same fact. The Autocrat of Russia, the Kings of Sweden and Denmark, the Emperor of Austria, Louis Napoleon, the petty Princes of the German States, Prussia, Italy, Turkey itself, Spain, Portugal and England—all these States exempt their clergymen from military service. Mexico and the South American republics do the same thing. What is the cause of this ancient and modern exemption of clergymen from the duties of war? The cause is <illegible> at the idea of making the servants of God blood-spillers, and the conviction that religion is a divine fact, with the integrity of which, it is never legitimate to interfere. It is a gross volition both of devise and natural religion to force priests to be blood-spillers. But why is America the only country in all the world, ancient or modern, that has made this violation? Is infidelity, irreligion, or atheism, the cause of it? It has its cause in the fanaticism which Puritanism and Abolitionism produce. Our people have, of late, lost much of their native lofty character and any legislation may be imposed on them. Certainly, a full army is greatly needed, but we should not to be the first nation that made war dogs of the ministers of religion. We shall yet blush for our ecclesiastical conscription. There was no necessity for it. It proves our legislators to be a parsed of infields as detestable and as wicked as ever followed Voltaire. How can our war be prosperous while such a sacrilege operates in it? Our rulers conscript the priests: will the soldiers spare the churches? Time will tell The. only satisfaction in this matter is, that there will be soon a Presidential election.—Boston Pilot.

ENGLISH HOSTILITY TO THE UNITED STATES.
It is a principle among nations to hate each other: but England has special ill-will for the United States. This Republic is, in its political existence, a triumph over British despotism, and in our commercial success, we are an insurmountable barrier to British avarice. Albion is accordingly animated against us with special revenge of a double nature. Our ruin would fill the malignant heart of that country with the wildest joy.
The patronage England has shown the rebels has all its explanation in this paragraph. The two facts it presents are the cause of the recognition of the South as a belligerent power; of the ships the South has built in England; in short, had England not countenanced the rebellion, that unfortunate outbreak would have been extinguished a long time ago. But the tide is reversed. The late Fourth of July saw Bull Run., Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville counterbalanced; Gettysburg, Vicksburg, and Port Hudson have destroyed more than three-fourths of the strength of the rebellion; and it is I now absolutely certain, that the Confederate government must soon succumb. How does England like this? With sorrow, with anguish, with malice, with bitter regret that it did not recognize the South, with apprehensions that the triumphant North will not be slow to seize the opportunity of revenge.
England is correct in this apprehension. The humiliation of our flag under the insurgent’s foot, is fundamentally an English crime, and satisfaction for it will be inevitably demanded. The whole North at the present moment is inflamed to the finger tip with animosity to the British for their support of the rebellious South. All the defeats that have been suffered; all the blood that has been shed; all the lives that have been lost; all the property that has been ruined, and all the business that has been suspended, are preserved in the memory, and the vengeance they urge must be satiated. This is a fatality. When we have the revolt put down, we will turn our sword on Britain, the main cause of the extent and duration of the revolt. A successful repression of the rebellion is impossible without this. Decency demands it; justice demands it: national pride demands it; national malice demands it; our own future safety demands it; our immense standing army and our great navy will demand it. When causes like these are united, they must have their effect. It is to be lamented that Canada is the frigid, ice-bound, sleet-driven, miserable, beggarly, inhospitable country it is. But, such as it is our soldiers will ravage it, desecrate it, drag through its horrid impenetrable surface of ice and snow the accursed flag of England, hold it in absolute military despotism for a time, and then fling it back to its original hoary possessors, eternal frost and snow. Its retention would not be compensating. But it is in Ireland our vengeance will find its chief exercise,. In a little time, expeditions for the freedom of Ireland may be got up in this country with absolute impunity. More than two hundred thousand of our brave emigrants have fought and are still fighting for the cause of the Union. How many of them will enlist for a descent on their native coasts! It is ever accursed England that has made our people emigrants, and strangers, and wanderers, and it is the same country that has been the principle cause of the blood spilling that has characterised America during the last two years. Facts like these the human memory never forgets, the human heart never forgives at which the human understanding always revolts, on which the human tongue is always inclined to invoke the overwhelming vengeance of Heaven, and for which the human hand is ever ready to wield the brand and sword of conflagration and death. Not a title of this can be gainsaid. As Americans, we are thirsting for vengeance on England. As Irishmen, we thirst in the same manner. A casuist may tell us that this is not Christian. But we tell the casuist that it is a fact, and that is enough. What does national vengeance justly provoked care for moral reasoning? Nothing. But it is pre-eminently just. America has ample cause to justify it in using all its power to subvert England The right of the Irish in America to exercise vengeance on England needs no defence. As Irish emigrants, and as American citizens and soldiers, they have this right—Ibid.
<c02>
Selections.
THE VOICE OF CHRISTIAN EUROPE.
ADDRESS OF FRENCH PASTORS TO THEIR BRETHREN IN GREAT BRITAIN.
To the Ministers and Pastors of all Evangelical Denominations in Great Britain.
PARIS, February 12, 1863.
HONORED AND BELOVED BRETHREN IN THE LORD:—It is the glory of England to have given to the world the example of abolishing first the slave trade, and then slavery. It is her glory to have continued for the last sixty years the work of suppressing universally the slave trade and slavery, at .a cost, it is asserted, of fifty million of pounds sterling. And it is, under God, chiefly to her religious men, to her Clarksons, her Wilberforces, her Buxtons, to her missionary societies, that England owes this glory. Will not the sons and successors of these great Christians complete their work, by urging their country to declare itself openly for the holy cause of the liberation of the slave in the terrible struggle which is at present convulsing the United States of America?
No more revolting spectacle has ever been set before the civilized world than a Confederacy, consisting mainly of Protestants, forming itself, and demanding independence in the nineteenth century of the Christian era, with a professed design of maintaining and propagating slavery; a Confederacy which lays down, as the corner-stone of its constitution, the system of slavery as it exists at present in the southern States—a system which may be defined briefly as the right to treat men like cattle, and to commit adultery and murder with impunity. Setting aside all political considerations, can any Christian heart fail to be stirred to indignation at hearing the chief of that Confederacy answering a decree of emancipation by an implied threat of extermination? 
The triumph of such a cause would put back the progress of Christian civilization and humanity a whole century. It would make angels weep in heaven, and demons rejoice in hell. It would enable the friends of the slave trade and of slavery in all lands to hold up their heads, ever ready as they are to reappear at the first signal, in Asia, in Africa, and even in the great cities of Europe. It would give a fatal blow to the work of evangelical missions. And what a frightful responsibility would rest on the Church which should remain a silent spectator of such a triumph.
If there is a peaceable means of hastening the end of the war, and of rendering its issue such as is desired by all the friends of humanity, is it not that the sincere Christians of Europe should give to the cause of emancipation a powerful testimony, which would leave to those who fight for the right of oppressing the slaves no hope of ever seeing those Christians give them the hand of fellowship?
Ministers and pastors of all the evangelical denominations of England, Scotland, and Ireland, it is here we need your assistance. Take the lead, and let us call forth a great and peaceful manifestation of sympathy for the colored race, so long oppressed and debased by Christian nations. Let us thus discourage the partisans of slavery. Let us strengthen and encourage those who wish to abolish it, at the same time disposing them to listen to our suggestions. It is in free England that such manifestations can be powerful. What may we not hope for it, throughout Great Britain, the voice of all the ministers of the crucified Saviour—and in France, our voice echoing theirs—pray and plead that soon there may be no longer in the United States a colored man that is not free and equal with the whites!
May God grant it, and may his blessing rest alike on Great Britain and the United States, in Christ, the true liberator!
Signed by 750 pastors in France, as attested by
GRANDPIERRE, Pasteur.
G.MONOD, Pasteur, Suffrageant, Paris.
LOUIS ROGNON, Pasteur.
LOUIS PULSFORD.
FRED. MONOD, Pasteur.
EUG. BERSIER.
Paris, March 13, 1863.
REPLY OF MINISTERS IN GREAT BRITAIN.
[The following reply to the Address of the French Pastors, prepared by the Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, and adopted by a Conference of Ministers in London, was signed by 4,000 ministers of Great Britain.]
DEAR BRETHREN:—We, whose names are undersigned, share in your views, we rejoice in your zeal, and we are thankful for your exhortations. It is honorable to France, and to French Protestantism, that you so heartily wish the destruction of the slave system, which makes four million of negroes wretched, debases their masters, has been a vast calamity to a great Protestant nation, and dishonors Christ, by whose professed servants it is upheld.
Like yourselves, we feel a deep compassion for the slaves, who are a part of the human family; we wish by all means in our power to discourage those who are seeking to found an empire on their degradation; and we wish success to all just and humane measures for their deliverance.
With these sentiments, we beg to assure you that, following where you have so nobly taken the lead, we shall do what we can to accomplish those benevolent objects to which you invite our attention.
Accept our fraternal wishes that you may enjoy the favor and blessing of God, through Jesus Christ our Lord.

THE MINISTERS OF GREAT BRITAIN TO THEIR BRETHREN IN AMERICA.
From the Manchester Examiner, June 4.
An Anti-Slavery Conference was held in Manchester, convened by circular, inviting the attendance of ministers to receive the report of the Committee having charge of the Reply to the French Pastors’ Address to Ministers in Great Britain on American Slavery, and the revolting spectacle of a Confederacy forming itself with a professed design of maintaining and propagating slavery; Rev. RICHARD SPATE, Preston, in the chair:
Moved by Dr. PARKER: seconded by the Rev. J. H RYLANCE:
“That a copy of the reply to the French pastors’ address, with the signatures, be transmitted to Paris by the chairman and convener, and that it be transmitted also to ministers of all denominations of Christians in America, accompanied by a suitable address."
The following address was unanimously adopted To Ministers and Pastors of all Christian Denominations throughout the Stales of America:
DEAR BRETHREN:—The letter which emanated from the French Protestant pastors, and was signed by 750, from all parts of France, was addressed to ministers and pastors of all evangelical denominations of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and de-
<c03>
signed to urge them to take the lead in “a great, and peaceful manifestation of sympathy for the colored race, so long oppressed and debased by Christian nations.” They desire by these means to “discourage the partisans of slavery,” and “strengthen and encourage those who wish to abolish it, at the same time persuading them to listen to friendly suggestions.” No such combination of names and objects ever previously occurred in the intercourse of Europe; and surely a letter, so universally approved, deserves the most respectful and considerate attention. It is the utterance of pure Christian philanthropy, and breathes the spirit of divine benevolence—not alone for the negro, but also for all who may be involved in his doom.
It was brought under consideration of a conference, convened by such ministers as had adhered to the London Emancipation Society, all of whom were invited who were in London. The Hon. and Rev. Baptist W. Noel, M. A., presided, and the unanimous decision was that a brief reply, then submitted, should be adopted and issued, to accompany the letter from the French clergy to all Protestant ministers of every denomination in Great Britain and Ireland.
The aim of the reply was to avow a deep compassion for the slaves, as a part of the human family; to discourage, by all means in the power of the subscribers, those who are seeking to found an empire on their degradation; and to express the desire for success to all just and humane measures for their deliverance. The letter and the reply have been widely circulated, and the adhesion of ministerial names has been solicited among all Protestant ministers. Many may have overlooked the application as a common printed circular, but already about four thousand attested names have been subscribed.
Both documents concur in representing slavery as a calamity to the nation in which it exists, and as dishonoring Christ when upheld by any of his servants; while they denounce the system because it gives to man the opportunity to treat his fellow-men as cattle, and often to commit adultery and murder with impunity. The census of the United States, taken in 1860, gives the number of slaves as 3,953,-760 men, women, and children, reputed, as we understand, the property of 350,000 slaveholders. These millions are all liable to be sold and bought at an auction mart, in lots or severally, at the pleasure of the traffickers, every feeling of delicacy, every endearment of parental and filial tenderness and dependence being crushed, violated, and set at naught; doomed, to toil, suffer, and die, for the gain and at the caprice of another. These poor victims are not our immediate kindred, but they are our fellow-men, whom their Creator hath made of the same blood with ourselves <illegible> are marked as our neighbors, whom God (who is over all) hath commanded us to love as ourselves; while the standard is inflexible for them as it is imperative for all—"As ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” We have not been left to abstract reasoning or conjecture to form our opinion of the wrongs inflicted by slavery on these millions, but are warranted to accept the description given by President Jefferson, in his prophetic augury of what awaited his country when he exclaimed, “What an incomprehensible machine is man! who can endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment, and death itself in vindication of his own liberty, and the next moment be deaf to all those motives whose power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow-man a bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he rose in rebellion to oppose! But we must await with patience the workings of an overruling Providence, and hope that He is preparing the deliverance of these our suffering brethren. When the measure of their tears shall be full, when their groans shall have involved Heaven itself in darkness, doubtless a God of justice will awaken to their distress, and diffusing light and liberality among their oppressors, or at length by his exterminating thunders, manifest his attention to the things of this world, and that they are not left to the guidance of a blind fatality. ”The friends of America in France and Britain looked anxiously to her statesmen and patriots, hoping that they might soon inaugurate the era when slavery should be doomed, as it had been denounced by her philanthropists; and that its abettors, enlightened and warned, would seek a peaceful solution of their great national problem. The United States had already contended with and overcome greater difficulties than might be found in the enfranchisement of the negro population. Their national independence had been secured amidst many dangers and sacrifices. They had opened paths in the primeval forest, reared cities in the wilderness, and found ports in every part of the world for their produce and commerce. They had risen from being a colony of outcast pilgrim fathers, to occupy an equality with the greatest nations, and be welcomed as an ally with the most renowned empires on the earth. Their sails were unfurled and their standard floated in every region, on every sea, and before every wind. They had become a great nation, and might legitimately contemplate the noblest and most philanthropic achievements. Yet the foul blot of slavery remained upon their banner.
Strangers should not presumptuously intermeddle in political debate as to the power, prerogatives, or relative obligations of the several States in Federal Union. The language and declarations of official men, however, and the ordinances of the seceding States, are. published. South Carolina leading, Alabama, Texas, and Virginia following, avow slavery as the origin of the strife; and the intention of the war was declared by Mr. Alexander H. Stephens, Vice-President of this Confederacy, when he exulted in the “fact that the new government is founded upon exactly the opposite idea to the old Constitution; its foundations are laid, its corner-stone rests upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man, that slavery—subordination to the superior race—is his natural and normal condition.” Our solemn conviction is, that no darker nor more dreary calamity could threaten any nation or people than the successful establishment of a republic whose corner-stone is the slavery of the workingman. The curse thus entailed would extend its poisonous influence far beyond the utmost range of the black population, and involve in moral degradation, corruption, and bondage, not only all the white people, rich and poor, but the government ruling them, the States holding friendly relation with them, and the merchants made rich by their merchandise, and depending on their favor.
But we cordially congratulate the statesmen and Christians of America, that already the shadows begin to disperse, and the cloud is aged with the radiance of a brighter day. Slavery has been abolished by the wisdom of the ruler and legislature in the District of Columbia—the representative centre of the Republic. In the year 1860, the census numbered 3,185 slaves as resident there; but they are all free now, as are the negroes working in national arsenals and fortresses—the price of liberty being compensated from the exchequer of the Union to the former owner; while we rejoice to learn that the liberated men show themselves able to appreciate
<c04>
their freedom <illegible> land and America, that slave-trading vessels are now subjected to the right of search by reciprocal treat; between the two governments, in such latitudes in the high seas as were formerly scoured with impunity under the American flag. The sea pirate knows, too, that already has capital punishment overtaken one adventurer who thus violated the law. We look now to the territories of the republic as lands sacred to freedom, destined to become the homes of industry, commerce and Christian fellowship; since the American Legislature and the President have guarded them by the laws which henceforward will bar from them the intrusion and pollution of slavery. It is well that thus recently have the Christian Indians been taught to exclude from their communities those who would practise slave-holding and traffic which they had learned from the slave-dealing white. Emancipation, too, is already State provision in Western Virginia, embodied as an organic law in her Constitution, when admitted by the signature of Mr. Lincoln to the Union two months ago. We read with deep and prayerful interest the proclamation of emancipation by the President, and rejoice that, notwithstanding the fears entertained by some good men, the results have been so beneficial. It has already brought liberty to myriads who were held in bondage. The first day of 1863 will be identified with the name of Abraham Lincoln in the history of many future citizens of the United States. If the opinion of Mr. Attorney General Bates be established as law, that any man born within the recognized territory of the United States is a citizen, then we must anticipate that henceforth even the negro, who is a man and a brother, will be also able to say, “I am an American,” in the hour of threatened bondage. May not the day soon come, as longed for, when the President’s counsel will be accepted, and the measure he recommends be made law, that all loyal States may emancipate their bondsmen, and the whole Union be willing to share the responsibility and expense? Even now, hundreds of thousands of negroes, slaves when Mr. Lincoln first occupied the presidential chair, are not only freedmen, but also servants of the State, and actively cooperating for. the redemption of their native country. They are Americans, though colored men, and ready to make every sacrifice for the restoration of peace, the establishment of liberty, and the triumph of equitable government, Men they are, whom the diplomatic representatives of Hayti and Liberia, now admitted to the brotherhood of American nations, when associated with ambassadors of imperial sovereigns, need not fear to recognize as kindred people, at the capital of the American Republic. Let the rulers and statesmen <illegible>course of equity, freedom and universal <illegible> and specially endeavor to requite the African people by a godlike benevolence for the ten thousand wrongs which have been inflicted on them, and they will find it both more pleasant and more safe and easy to do justice, to love mercy, to undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free, than it is to do evil with both hands. With what renovated energy, with what moral power, with what hallowed consistency and honorable courage will the whole nation then be able to rise to their, highest destiny. Then will the work of righteousness be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever; and the people shall dwell in a peaceful habitation, in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places. The greatness of the country will then be identified with goodness, and its name will be as ointment poured forth. It will have wiped from its banner every stain inconsistent with liberty, to which heretofore the finger of derision has been pointed, and will have established for its leader a claim to the admiration of all enlightened men, as the benefactors of a long oppressed and injured people. It is the duty of American statesmen and Christian ministers (which all these considerations emphatically enforce) to guard against any reaction in the policy of emancipation, when arrangements, consequent on the termination of the present war, may come under discussion. A retrograde course would assuredly give a triumph to the adversaries of freedom, and put to shame all who have sympathized in the progress of the cause of the slave.
RICHARD SLATE, Chairman.
[We have already informed our readers of the arrival in this country of the Rev. Dr. Massie and the Rev. J. H. Rylance, a deputation appointed to present the above address to the ministers of the United States.]

FIGHTING FOR THEIR ENEMIES.
The recent riots have caused great rejoicings in Richmond; they have given new life to the despondent rebel chiefs; the extracts we give from Southern journals show that the disturbances here enabled the enemy to forget for the moment even the loss of Vicksburg; and there is no doubt that half the moral effect upon the rebels of our recent glorious victories has been lost through the occurrence of this outbreak in the metropolis of the free States. That is to say, though the rioters inflicted a comparatively trifling loss upon the city, they put a great, a very serious loss upon the country; they helped a prostrate enemy on his legs again.
Now why should this be? What favor do the rioters owe to the slaveholders? Have they been so kindly treated by those now in rebellion that a sentiment of gratitude should lead them to help these persons at a critical moment? It is said that many workingmen and many persons of foreign birth took part in this defiance of the laws; what benefits have they to expect from the men who rule at Richmond, that they should make themselves their allies? Are the slaveholders the true friends of workingmen? Is it true that in the slave States labor is more respected and laborers held in more honor than in the free States? Unless this is so, it would appear that no workingman, no foreigner, alive to his best interests, does wisely when he does that which gives new hope and strength to the slaveholding rebels. 
Let us examine this important question for a little. In the first place, it should not be forgotten that, before the commencement of the rebellion, Mr. L. M. Spratt, of South Carolina, one of the leading writers of the South, declared separation from the free States and the revival of the African slave-trade necessary to the South, because already, he said “Irishmen are doing the work which our slaves ought to do;” and be specified that, even in the hotels of Charleston, Irish waiters had taken the places which, as he averred, of right ought to be occupied by negro slaves. The only safety for the South, according to Mr. Spratt, lay in making the slaves so numerous, by the importation of negroes from Africa, as to exclude altogether from the Southern States free white workingmen, whom he called “mudsills” and "disorganizers."
Take, next, the expressions to Mr. Russell, the London Times correspondent, by slaveholders. As soon as the war was over, they said, the foreign population, the Irish and Germans, would be shorn of their privileges. They should no longer vote; they
<c05>
<illegible> The Richmond Literary Messenger spoke recently in the same strain:
“That benign institution of slavery, which it is now the pride and glory of the South to ascribe to the conception of Divinity, and which this war has proved to be, next to the undaunted patriotism of her sons, the great element of power in the Confederacy, will prove, in preventing too heavy an influx from foreign shores of that class of population devoted to menial pursuits, another bulwark against the encroachment of those tendencies to democracy which have been the Pandora’s box of disintegration and ruin to all republics."
The rebels are unsparing in their expressions of contempt for workingmen, and especially for such of them as are of foreign birth. The Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle and Sentinel of the 17th of May, says:
“The riff-raff of the cities, the uncouth louts of the country, the ignorant Irish and Dutch, and the off scouring of Europe, make up the great bulk of the Federal army."
Another rebel journal, the Knoxville Register, recently held forth in these words:
“Why not hang every Dutchman captured? We will, hereafter, hang, shoot, or imprison for life, all white men taken in command of negroes, and enslave the negroes themselves. This is not too harsh. No human being will assert the contrary. Why, then, should we not hang a Dutchman, who deserves infinitely less of our sympathy than Sambo? The live masses of beer, krout, tobacco and rotten cheese, which, on two legs and four, (on foot and mounted,) go prowling through the South, should be used to manure the sandy plains and barren hillsides of Alabama, Tennessee and Georgia.”
Are the men who speak of free white workingmen as “mud-sills,” “cowardly riff-raff,” “base-born brutes”—are these the men to benefit whom any workingman in the North or in the world should lift his finger? What has a laboring man to hope from the slaveholders? Have they ever encouraged emigration from Europe? Who voted against the Homestead bill, the purpose of which is to give every industrious workingman a free farm? The slaveholders opposed it in a body. They called it an abolition scheme—this measure, which was intended especially to encourage the immigration of the industrious poor from all parts of Europe.
An Irishman or German who comes to one of the free States has all the rights and privileges of an American citizen freely and confidingly offered him. But if he should go to South Carolina, the model slave State, he would find these denied him; he would find no man permitted to vote unless he owns a landed estate—no man capable of holding office unless he is a wealthy slaveholder. Is this the state of things <illegible> introduce here?
Almost the first act of the rebellious slaveholders of Virginia, after forcing the act of secession through the convention by the help of a mob, was to pass an ordinance depriving every workingman in the State of the right to vote or hold office; and at the fall election of 1861, they had the impudence to force the people of the State to vote on this degrading proposition. Happily, they voted it down. But suppose it had passed: what free workingman would thereafter have removed to Virginia?
It is notorious that the rebels desire and intend to shut out from the slave States every free white workingman. Those now there they call by the opprobrious name of “white trash;” and they declare that they want no more such. If they could, with the help of Northern demagogues, make themselves supreme in the Union, they would disfranchise every foreign-born citizen and every workingman as soon as possible; and would revive in every State those oppressive laws and customs which have so long borne heavily upon the laboring population of Ireland and Germany. They would destroy the last remaining refuge of the oppressed poor, and turn away from our shores the thousands who now seek here a home and equal rights.
Yet it is these wretches who are benefitted by the recent riot in New York; they and they only can derive advantage from any disorders or lawless disturbance in the free States.—N. Y. Evening Post.

FLAG RAISING AT CAMP WILLIAM PENN.
Yesterday afternoon, the ceremony of raising the American flag over the encampment of the colored troops, organizing under the direction of the Philadelphia Supervisory Committee, took place at Chelton Hill, in the presence of a vast concourse of people. The regiment, which is the first fully organized regiment credited to our State, and the 3d regular U. S. colored regiment, is now fully equipped, armed, and with full ranks. It is organized with the following officers: Col. Tilghman; Major, T. W. Bardwell; Adjutant, S. S. Marsulles; Capt. Blake; 1st Lieutenants, R. C. Loveridge, W. W. Warlrath, and R. R. Martin; Acting Quartermaster, J. S.McCaughan: 2d Lieutenants, L. S. Kearny, C. F. Ritchie, B. .F. Buckley, George Hemack, and—Blaker. The vacancies have not yet been provided for.
The regiment has been a comparatively short time in forming, and has evinced a degree of enthusiasm and discipline that would do credit to older troops.
The camping ground is delightfully situated on an eminence of country, commanding a full view of many miles of the neighborhood. To the large number of people who were assembled yesterday afternoon to witness the drill and stamina of the regiment, a most favorable opportunity was offered. A long train left the depot of the North Pennsylvania Railroad at half-past three, filled with colored people, and another train with white persons, ladies and gentlemen, who have evinced not a little interest in the formation of colored companies. On reaching the grounds, the regiment went through a regiment drill, and it is only the truth to say that the manner in which every evolution was effected was characterized by military correctness, and none were more emphatic in the expression of that judgment than military officers of other volunteer regiments who were present. Brig. Gen. Owen was among the officers who took part as a participant in the ceremonies.
At the close of the drill, the flag was raised to the mast-head, Hon. William D. Kelley and acting Colonel Wagner, of the 88th P. V., performing that part of the day’s programme. The bands, two in number, struck up, simultaneously with the raising of the flag, “The Star Spangled Banner,” which occasioned repeated and hearty cheers.
The flag being raised, Mr. George H. Earle came forward, and addressed the soldiers and people in a thrilling and patriotic speech. He said he was very happy to have the opportunity of speaking on this occasion to the colored regiment. The reflections which their appearance occasioned, the emotions excited in him by the events of this day, were such as to prevent a flow of words that might aptly express his feelings. The spot from which he now addressed them was a consecrated one, dear to the memory of every friend of his country. Along this road marched Washington’s troops, to engage the enemy at Ger-
<c06>
mantown. The inspiration of the moment is divine; the inspiration of the moment is like the voice of the great Creator, pointing to this last day as the commencement of the redemption and salvation of America—a day on which America has consented to accept your services to defend her life in the death-struggle in which she is now engaged. Our country now calls upon the colored man to defend the flag you have just raised, that flag which is at this time especially the flag of freedom. You are organizing that you may say to foreign States, who would interfere in our affairs, “Stand back!” and to the rebel hordes, “Disperse!” (Applause.) Your enemies around you and your enemies in the South have opposed arming you—first, because a musket in your hands was the embodiment of power that might prove hurtful to them; and, second, because the arming of you was calculated to advance your social status. Never was a colored man more respected than now. Your enemies have said you would not fight. You have already shown how base was that charge. Could you not fight for freedom? Could you not feel for your own children? Do you not realize that when you struggle for the Union, there would be a feeling of gratitude for you hereafter? If you have not fought heretofore, it was not from want of courage, nor from want of loyalty, nor honesty of purpose. I have been told since I came here to-day, in refutation of the charge of dishonesty, that no farmer in this neighborhood has had cause to complain that you have done him injury in any particular. Nothing destroyed, nothing has been stolen by any soldier in the regiment. (Applause.) I would like to see another regiment that can say as much.
The speaker congratulated the troops on the splendid fame won by the colored soldiers at Port Hudson, Milliken’s Bend, and Morris Island. Why should they not fight? The white soldiers are in a manner policemen, suppressing a riot, but the colored soldiers are impelled by other motives which are additional. They are a body of men fighting for liberty, fighting for the elevation of their race, so long trampled upon by a cruel and relentless tyranny. They are moved with the spirit which found utterance from the lips of Patrick Henry: “Give me liberty or give me death!” Therefore I shall expect in every engagement you may chance to be in, that you will be distinguished by a courage as bold and as daring as any that has been displayed since the opening of the war. As I look upon you, I can see the light of battle in your faces, and I feel assured that you will realize all the expectations which have been formed of you. You will go forward to meet a God-defying band of conspirators, arrayed against human progress, against democratic government, against the rights of the poor man,<illegible> interest of everything that is bad.
Your enemies charge that if you are armed, there would be no end to the outrages you would commit. I cannot see that this false charge was sustained in any sphere of action in which you have been placed. Port Hudson and Morris Island have proven that you know your duty as soldiers, and as anxious to maintain a good reputation as any soldiers of our army. Though your regiment is called on at the close of the fight, may your conduct be the reverse of that which your enemies predicted would characterize you! You will go forward to do battle in a great and holy cause, to sustain a noble Government, and fight for the right and for human freedom. May you always sustain that cause with courage and honor; may your strong arms hasten the day of peace; may God, who looks, I trust, approvingly on this scene, keep you in his holy keeping, and preserve this country for a future of liberty, freedom, and righteousness. Mr. Earle was frequently applauded.
In response to repeated calls, Hon. Wm. D. Kelley addressed the meeting briefly as follows:
I shall speak but briefly. Mr. Earle has addressed you, colored men; but I have a secret to whisper to the white men here. It is a profound secret. It is that “John Brown’s soul is marching on,” (applause,) and it will continue to march until that flag waves over none but freemen. Remember, you have redeemed your race in Philadelphia from the prejudice that branded you as cowards. The black men at Milliken’s Bend and Port Hudson were marvels of courage, and you must show that the black men of the North can fight as well as his brothers in the South. Will you do it? (Cries of “We will”) I have merely to say that your regiment will soon go to Florida, and before the close of the year you will make that a free State. (Cheers.) The courage of the black man is to make Florida free, and also to warn any European government that would interfere in our affairs, that we will overrun it with black soldiers if need be. This is a war for freedom, and you are to be among the grandest of its soldiers. I congratulate you upon your soldierly appearance, and hope your future will be as glorious as your present standing augurs.
The regiment will make a dress parade in this city on Saturday morning.—Philadelphia paper: 

GENERAL THOMAS AND THE NEGRO REGIMENTS IN THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.
General Thomas has done a great, beneficent and useful work in developing plans for the organization of negro regiments, and for working plantations in the Mississippi Valley. Overtasked by his arduous labors, he was prostrated by fever, and was for a long time dangerously ill. All will rejoice to know that he is rapidly recovering. From recent conversations and statements of his, we condense the following:
Mr. Field, a benevolent gentleman of St. Louis, seeing the pitiable and neglected condition of the negroes, and the abuse to which they were subjected, went to Washington, and laid the matter before Secretary Stanton. This resulted in developing and defining a policy on the part of the Government, and in sending General Thomas to the Valley, to put the policy in operation.
On his arrival at Cairo, he found the black people huddled together, abused and neglected by those who had charge of them, and all sorts of spiteful expressions, among which was “D—n the nigger!” used towards them. They were dying like sheep—2,500 had already died from various diseases.
He made a speech, developing the new policy of the Government in regard to the blacks.. He knew of the abuses that had been heaped upon them, and declared that they most end—that black men should be encouraged to come into the lines, should be kindly treated, fed, clothed and armed, and put in military organizations. He told them that whoever stood in the way of this policy, whatever his rank, he would dismiss him from service on the spot. The rebels were making use of the negroes, and every black man that came into oar lines weakened them and strengthened us. He would have them organized into regiments, and white officers placed over them—men whose hearts were well in the work. He would select the best men, good men for officers, even if he had to take all, from Colonel down, from the ranks.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST;’ and that, under that state of things, so, far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES….From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I my it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS of war, and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The enunciation of these purposes produced a revolution at once.
The more he saw, and the more he reflected, the more huge did the task appear. These people were coming in large numbers. They knew perfectly well (for the intelligence spread like wild-fire among them) that the President had declared them free. He made a report to the Secretary of war, saving it would not do to send them North-some States had passed laws against their reception, and the prejudice of certain classes, where laws had not been passed-especially the German and Irish-was too great to think of sending them there. They could not be sent to the Border States, for they would be kidnapped and carried back to slavery. It would not do to let them be huddled together, and become idle and good for nothing. No-they must be employed in the land which gave them birth. Possessed with these ideas and this plan, he went on.
He went to Columbus, Ky. General Schriber, a fine officer, was in command. General Thomas addressed the troops; thought that there was material there for a colored regiment, and declared his purpose to organize one.
He passed on to Helena, Ark. General Prentiss, who was in command, entered heartily into his plans. A colored regiment was organized, called the "First Arkansas." This regiment was ordered down at the time Lake Providence was threatened, and departed with the greatest zeal and alacrity. He organized a second regiment at Helena, from the negroes who came in there, and, before leaving, authorized Colonel Pike, a Missourian, (and those Missourians enter heartily into the work,) to organize five additional regiments from the negroes as they came in.
At Young's Point he met General Logan, who entered heartily into the work, and was for availing <illegible> services of the negroes to the fullest Logan's corps.<illegible>
After we took possession of Grand Gulf, a thousand negroes came in, and Shepard, of the Third Missouri volunteers, offered to take charge of a regiment. He was so much pleased with his zeal, that he, told him to go on and raise a brigade, and he would insist upon his being made a Brigadier-General. Three of those regiments are already organized.
He visited and held long interviews with General Grant. From General Grant down, he did not meet with any opposition, but every one gave his hearty co-operation in carrying out the new policy of the Government.
Milliken's Bend, a shipping port in that part of the country, would certainly have been captured, had it not been for two incomplete colored regiments, one of which had not been mustered into the United States service. The men are said to have fought like heroes.
At Memphis, he authorized General Hurlbut to organize a regiment of heavy artillery. Twelve companies he has already organized.
General Thomas intended, at first, to raise only a force of 10,000 colored men, but before he left had completed arrangements for raising twenty regiments; and on the fall of Vicksburg, he expected to raise as many regiments as might be wanted.
General Thomas said:—
"I was compelled to speak to the troops along the route—speaking one day some seven or eight times. During my tour, I met with an Irish regiment, the 90th Illinois, from Chicago—men who read the Chicago Times. After talking to them awhile, I proposed three cheers for the President of the United States. These were given heartily. Three cheers were proposed for the settled policy of the United States with regard to the negroes. This was met by cries of 'No!' The Colonel was absent, and the Lieutenant Colonel was in command. I inquired what such conduct meant. The Lieutenant Colonel endeavored to excuse the men by saying that they had had no opportunity to think over the matter. I replied, 'You are not telling the truth, Sir!-I know that they have been discussing this question for a week past. I know the fact, if you do not.' The officer was considerably mortified. I ordered those who were opposed to this policy of the Government to step forward, and said I knew the regiment had seen considerable service and fought well; but I also knew that there was but little discipline observed among them; that I wanted a distinct recognition of this doctrine—that was the point with me. Several stepped forward. They were instantly seized, and sent to the guardhouse. I then left the regiment, telling them I would give them a week to consider what they would do. At the next station, I met the Colonel of the regiment, who begged that I would leave the matter in his hands, and he <illegible>
General Thomas, with provident care, provided for the occupancy of abandoned plantations by the non-combatants, negro women and children, whom he could not get into military organizations.
He found a line of deserted magnificent plantations along the bank of the river from Helena to Young's Point. Of these he took possession, and leased them to Unionists who would employ negro women and children, and pay them suitable wages. This arrangement is in full operation, and is working admirably.
General Thomas deserves well of the country, and deserves to be held, always, in grateful remembrance for the zeal and fidelity with which he accomplished his great and good work in the valley of the Mississippi—Cleveland Leader.

THOUGHTS FOR THE WHITE LABORER.
So long as slavery exists in the South, you cannot hope to be respected there, because, if you are poor, your honesty will not protect you from the sneer of the master or the laugh of the slave.
So long as slavery exists in the South, the white laboring man can never acquire a title in fee to the land. Small farmers are unknown in slave States, except in some sterile spots, where living at all is a hardship.
So long as slavery exists in the South, the richest and noblest portion of the United States is shut against the feet of the white laborer. The most he can expect is to have a winter's work on the levee, or exhaust soul and body on a steamboat in some menial capacity.
So long as slavery exists in the South, neither Catholic church, nor school, nor Catholic colony will be found there. The land will be as barren as these of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Mississippi, Arkansas, Alabama, Tennessee, &c., &c.
So long as slavery exists in the South, the white laborer will be treated worse than the slave. He will be looked upon, as Hammond, the South Carolina Senator, said as a "mudsill," a thing to be trod on, and scrape your shoes on, and then left to rot and be cast aside.
So long as slavery exists in the South, the aristocratic or oppressive classes will rule. Manual labor of any kind will be treated with contempt. The children of the white laborer will be taught by slavery to despise their parentage. A public opinion unknown or suppressed in the free, is all powerful in the slave States, and by this "the pride of life" is established in the high places, and they who do not bow down before the idol must seek a home elsewhere.—Catholic Telegraph, July 8.

THE NEW INITIATIVE OF MURDER.
From the beginning of our present contest, the rebel leaders have evinced an unwavering resolve to initiate a general butchery of prisoners’ of war, at the earliest moment. They have obviously calculated that this would produce such mutual exasperation, that the North and South could never be reconciled, and the ultimate success of the rebellion would thus be insured.
The latest outbreak of this demoniac spirit of murder is as follows:—
A few weeks since, Gen. Burnside caught two rebel captains (Wm. F. Corbin and T. J. McGraw,) prowling over Kentucky, within the lines of the Union armies, recruiting for the Rebel army. These two captains were duly arraigned, tried, convicted, sentenced, and shot, in accordance with the laws of war. No General ever did or could permit such recruiting for the enemy within his lines; no one ever did or could regard the emissaries caught at such a business as prisoners of war. They were entitled to just such lenity as Washington awarded to Andre—neither less nor more.
Hereupon, Jeff. Davis has selected by lot two captains (Henry W. Sawyer, of New Jersey, and John Flinn, [Irish] Indiana,] from among the Union prisoners of war confined at Richmond, and has ordered them to be killed in revenge for the execution of his two captains aforesaid. It is reported from Richmond that the day for their execution has no yet been fixed; and it may be that the tiding from Gettysburg, Vicksburg, and Helena, may exert a saving influence. The probability is, however, that Sawyer and Flinn will be murdered, if they have not already been.
<c02>
NO CAUSE FOR DESPONDENCY.
When Paul Jones, in the wretched old hulk of an Indiaman, an hundred years old, (the Bon Homme Richard,) was engaged in the desperate conflict with the Serapis a new English frigate of the first class, just out of port—after a single broadside had riddled her so completely that he was compelled to lash her to the Englishman to avoid sinking—when nearly all his guns had burst, and half his crew had fallen—a momentary cessation of firing induced his adversary to hail him, and inquire whether he had struck. "We have not begun to fight," was the laconic and pithy reply, and after two hours more of mortal combat, he had the proud satisfaction of walking the Englishman's deck, a victor under circumstances so desperate that at one time there appeared no chance of escape. Such is the reward of valor when allied to constancy, and directed by an indomitable will.
Lincoln, Seward, Halleck, and the whole Yankee press are hugging themselves in the delusion that they already see the end of the war, and that that end is to us, the death of our liberty, and the beginning of an interminable servitude. To their taunts and sneers we reply, in the defiant language of Paul Jones, "We have not yet begun to fight." They think they have seen pitched fields, but the hottest of those they have seen are, to those which must come, but as the freshness of an April morning to the fiery breath of dog-days—but as the snow upon the side of Hecla to the whirling gulf of flame within—but as December to June—but as an ice-house to a furnace heated an hundred fold.
The people have never yet put forth its strength to half its extent, furious as has been the war in which it has been, engaged, mighty as have been its struggles, glorious as have been its victories, unparalleled as has been the result. What we have done is scarcely a type of what we can do. The present enough to induce new energy in the contest, to call for new exertions and new sacrifices, to remind our people of the nature of the conflict and the object of the enemy, to bring out our whole strength, and to let the world see of what we are capable. While the Yankees think they have subjugated us by taking Vicksburg, we repeat, in the language of Paul Jones, "we have not begun to fight."
Such is the spirit of our people, such the resources of our countrymen in their own determined will, such the obstacle which the enemy will have to over-come, before he can ever subdue us. We have lost Vicksburg and Port Hudson. What of that? Suppose we lose Charleston, Savannah, Mobile, Wilmington—all our seaports. What of that, we ask again?
-"What though the field be lost?
All is not lost! The unconquerable will, 
And study of revenge, immortal hate, 
And courage never to submit or yield: 
All these remain."
These we would still have, though everything materially were gone.
But we are reduced to no such straits. On the contrary, we speak the solemn truth when we declare that in our opinion our situation, although it is one which calls for the utmost exertion, so far from being desperate, is not even gloomy. The enemy has taken Vicksburg and Port Hudson. Does he open the navigation of the river thereby? Not at all, as we showed the other day, and we think showed satisfactorily. On the other hand, he weakens himself by the garrisons he is obliged to put in those places, and he strengthens our armies by returning the garrison which have been so long shut up there. He would do the same thing by taking Charleston, Savannah and Mobile. Having no longer any detached ports to defend, our army could then complete the policy of concentration which, but partially pursued, has already been attended with such memorable results.
Retiring to the interior as he advances, we shall weaken him and strengthen ourselves with every step that he takes in leaving his base of operations. We have made our calculations long ago that all the towns within reach of the enemy's navy would fall; and giving them, for the sake of argument, up to him. we conceive that we are more able to beat him without them than with them. Let it not be forgotten, in the meantime, that we have a powerful army—an army that has never been beaten, with a general at its head who may rank with the most renowned leaders of whom history makes mention. Let the desponding think on these facts, and tell us what there is gloomy in our situation. For our part, we see nothing <illegible>on to destroy more cotton and tobacco to prevent their falling into the hands of the enemy; but, in our opinion, this would not be the worst thing the government could do, even of its own free will. It would call the minds of thousands from the pursuit of wealth to the defence of the country, and that would be a positive gain.—Richmond Dispatch.
The temper of the following article in the Richmond Enquirer of July 29 shows, by its appealing to the passions of the Charlestonians, that great danger is apprehended from the bombardment. It may be well to note the opinion given of the consequences of the fall of Charleston:
"Charleston must not fall, says the Mercury. The eyes of the confederacy, of the Yankee nation, of the whole world, are turned now to that brave city with an interest more immediate and more profound than to any other single point of attack. No other success which our enemy could now hope to win would be so exhilarating to him, so provoking (if not discouraging) to us, as the capture of the city which was the cradle of secession and nucleus of the confederacy. No other event would be so damaging to our military prestige in the eyes of European powers. No other community in the country—not that of Richmond itself—is so deeply and cordially execrated by the base people who are attempting our subjugation. It is because they are so base that they hate the noble city with so intense a hatred; and if ever those proud citizens should fall under the martial law of a Yankee general, the humiliations of New Orleans, the tortures of Nashville, or the iron tyranny that crushes Norfolk would be mild in comparison with the vengeance that would be wreaked upon the once haughty and disdainful people of Charleston. 'The starch would be taken out of them,' to employ the washerwoman's phrase of Banks. They would be bowed down to the earth, and every incident of their humiliation would be dwelt upon and gloated over by the Yankee press, to make fiendish sport for those jealous and long despised Yankees of New York, and especially of Boston. A Massachusetts abolitionist would have the pleasing task of exacting homage to the flag of the Stars and Stripes; the banner of the Palmetto would be trampled in the mud with a diabolical glee, and the libraries and picture galleries of the cultivated sons of Carolina would be despoiled to enrich the vulgar dwellings of the Puritans. Then would every Carolinian, who should have had the evil fortune to survive his beloved city, curse the day be was born, and envy the brave dead who fell in its defence.
Therefore, they have wisely resolved to die before Charleston falls; and' how can man die better?' They have a General commanding them who always possesses the confidence and kindles the enthusiasm of the officers and men whom he leads. The splendid military reputation of Beauregard stands all staked upon this great struggle. He has identified himself with South Carolina, and South Carolina with him; for him there is no future if Charleston falls; and he had better die with the rest. 
That Vicksburg and Port Hudson are lost—that Gen. Lee's invasion of Pennsylvania has fallen short of the hopes of our people—that the enemy is now pressing on with more inveterate energy, in the intoxication of unwonted success, to crush the last strongholds of the 'rebellion'—all these are but reasons the more why Charleston must not fall. Not that the reduction of that city would be materially very disastrous to us; only morally discouraging. If, unhappily, the foul invaders should at last find themselves possessors of the ruins and ashes of the city which they hate—for it is only its ashes and ruins they can ever win-hey would find themselves precisely as far from the subjugation of the Confederacy as they are this day. Yet Charleston must not fall. The glorious and bloody resistance she has heretofore made; all her memories of the past, and all her hopes of the future; the torrents of rich blood which her sons have already poured forth from the day of Secessionville down to the last assault on battery Wagner—all admonish her true sons that they cannot afford to flinch now. And they so understand it, our noble brothers. They are wrought up to the temper in which human nature becomes superhuman, and can do the deeds of demigods—and this is just the temper that we must all reach in the days that are coming, and close at hand."
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 14, 1863.
The Editor of the Liberator is absent from his post, endeavoring to obtain recreation, recuperation and inspiration from the ocean breeze near Plymouth Rock. Letters for his personal attention may be addressed to him, until the last of the month, at Plymouth, Mass.
THE CONDITION OF THE FREEDMEN. We commence the publication, in our present number, of an elaborate and valuable report from the Commission recently appointed by the Secretary of War to investigate the condition of the freedmen. The Commission have fulfilled their duty with marked earnestness and fidelity, producing a record of their personal investigations which thoughtful men will ponder. They show, by evidence which cannot be disputed, that the social condition of the emancipated blacks already gives indications of lasting improvement; that the energies of the colored race have been awakened by their passage from a state of bondage to one of freedom; that they are industrious and willing; that their capabilities for learning are of no mean character; and that their love of freedom, their zeal for the Union and their native courage render their services in our armies very valuable.
The instructions of the Commission also require them to report "as to the experience of other countries <illegible>. This part of their duty they have not entered upon. It will include, of course, the much-contested West India question.

A NEW MARKET FOR MANUFACTURES.
A residence of some fifteen months in the Sea Islands of S. C. has brought many facts to my notice, which may be of interest to your readers. During the first twelve months, I had about two hundred hands in my employ, under the United States, and once March last, have employed about five hundred of private account. These people have received no gratuities from me, but have supplied their wants from their own corn crops and their earnings. They began by begging for clothes, molasses, tobacco, &c., &c. I firmly refused. They were highly indignant, and called me "meaner than secesh," for their masters always gave them those things. They were ready enough to buy, however, and now ask only for a chance to buy. Wherever these people had not been disturbed in the possession of their old houses, they were able to support themselves from the first hour after their masters ran away. They sold in camp, eggs, chickens, pigs, watermelons, ground nuts, and sweet potatoes; the women washed clothes, and the men curried horses, or cooked dinners for our officers. Such a vast amount of labor was turned into such channel, that it was difficult, in the vicinity of the camps, to get any labor for the cotton fields. By dint of prompt payments and rational treatment, I have this year succeeded in putting under cultivation some eight hundred acres of cotton, without the help of the young men, who arc all drafted.
The amount of civilized wants now being developed among this people is surprising, and leads one to fore see an immense demand for the knick-knacks and household comforts of Yankee manufacture, if the negro is allowed to profit by the earnings of his labor, and provide for his own wants, as we have some reason to hope he will.
A writer in a Boston paper, within a week, thinks it out of place for a negro to wish to be anything but a slave. He would probably think it unpardonable extravagance if a negro should want to eat with a knife and fork from a plate, to have plenty of molasses for his hominy, or to own a handsaw, hammer, or an umbrella; at the same time, if these foolish people will waste their money in buying such luxuries, I <illegible> will have no scruples of conscience about furnishing such articles for their consumption.
I confess I have none, and with a view to encourage industry and cultivate the germs of civilization, I have been so far a panderer to these unreasonable wants as to supply them, at cost, with several thousand dollars worth of merchandise, of which the following list may be of interest. Their supply of breadstuffs is chiefly from their own crops of corn and potatoes.
During the year previous to March, 1863, there was spent at my house on St. Helena Island, by a population of two hundred working hands and their dependants, being four hundred and twelve in all:—
For Dry Goods,$1677
For Salt, 25
For Soap, 26
For Shoes, 206 
For Bacon, 101
For Flour, 30
For Sugar and Molasses, 652
For Tobacco, 330
Total, $3047
During the month of May, I ordered from Boston the following invoice, which I left for sale to my employes, and which I now learn has been nearly all sold, having been purchased by a population of five hundred working hands and their dependants, being nine hundred and forty-three in all:—
Tobacco, 10 boxes, $774 46
Molasses. 75 bbls., 1,156 60
Bacon, 9000 lbs., 761 81
Salt, 30 sacks, 50 40
Hardware, including spoons, knives and forks, pans, pots, kettles, hand-saws, hatches, nails. &c., &c., 414 25
Flour and corn, 300 bbls., 1,362 16
Hats and caps, 50 46
Drugs, (castor oil,) 17 79
Shoes, 205 00
Soap, 8 boxes, 45 00
Dry goods, umbrellas, &c., 1,541 66
$6,379 53
Learning from my correspondents that this supply was exhausted in June last, I have just shipped the following articles for sale:—
55 bbls. molasses, 250 kettles,
55 bbls. flour, 300 Dutch ovens,
10 bbls. rice, 12 doz. frying pans,
4 hhds. bacon, 10 cases and 4 bales dry
20 bbls. sugar, goods,
100 " corn, 10 gross spoons,
10 sacks salt, 10 gross knives and forks,
25 boxes soap, 1 gross files,
10 "candles, 7 gross tin plates & pans,
27 kegs nails, amounting to $7,150 worth.
I learn from the letters this day received from Port Royal, that my agents sold to these people during the months of May and June, merchandise to the amount of $3,800. Their pay-rolls during those two months amounted to only $2,305. This shows what I have often before noticed, that they spend much more than they earn on the plantation. The remaining funds are the proceeds of sales of eggs, chickens, pigs, &c., and the pay of the husbands in the army, sent to their families for spending.
If these people had remained "in statu quo ante bellum," they would have received during the past year, each working hand, two suits of clothes and one pair of shoes, six pounds bacon and three gallons molasses each, for the season, one peck of corn per week, and one quart of salt per month.
It may be left for the imagination of the reader to compute the amount of hardware, sugar, molasses, soap, candles, flour, &c. which would have been purchased under the old state of things from the proceeds of sales of eggs at 12 cts per doz., the old price.
It may readily be seen that a considerable demand may arise for the articles above named and others of kindred nature, when a population of some millions shall be in a position to apply their earnings to the supply of their rapidly increasing wants. Should not the manufacturing interests of the North be awake to this? EDWD. S. PHILBRICK.
<c04>
THE FREEDMEN.
ABSTRACT OF A PRELIMINARY REPORT
Of the American Freedmen's Inquiry Commission,
To the Secretary of War.
PUBLICATION AUTHORIZED BY THE SECRETARY OF WAR.
ROBERT DALE OWEN, JAMES MCKAY, SAMUEL G. HOWE, Commissioners.
§ I.—NEGROES AS REFUGEES.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, EASTERN VIRGINIA, AND NORTH CAROLINA.
The Commission find, on examination, that within the above Districts, negro refugees need not be, except for a brief period, any burden on the Government, but on the contrary may become auxiliaries in the prosecution of the war to the full as efficient as the same number of loyal white emigrants into the Northern States.
The evidence shows that these refugees are, with rare exceptions, loyal, faithful, able and willing to work for moderate wages, if promptly paid, docile, little given to quarreling, cheerful, and uncomplaining.
Poor whites as well as negro refugees, arrested by the war in their ordinary course of labor, have been thrown, for a time, on the care of the Government, sometimes in greater numbers than the blacks. In November last, Gen. Butler was feeding in New Orleans 32,000 whites, 17,000 of whom were British-born subjects, and only 10,000 negroes, chiefly women and children. In cases where relief has been granted to both, the poor white usually demanded and received more than the negro. At Newbern, North Carolina, last year, among 9,000 of both colors relieved, the average proportion dealt out in each of the staple articles for food was as one for each colored person relieved to sixteen for each white person thus assisted. The exact figures are given. At that time, work was offered and paid for, to whites at $12 a month, to blacks at $8.
Beyond the usual amount of relief granted in all civilized communities to the indigent and disabled poor, the refugee freedmen need, except for the moment, no charitable assistance. The tree colored population of Washingtown support their own poor, with out alms-house aid.
The vices of the refugees are such as appertain to Slavery. Deprived of property, they do not respect its rights. Accustomed under despotic rule to shield themselves by falsehood, they lie when a lie will please a superior or avert punishment. Legally unable to form binding conjugal relations, they are incontinent.
But the testimony of intelligent superintendents is to the effect that these vices are not deeply rooted; that by a recognition of the freedman's new rights and an appeal to his self-respect, they may be gradually eradicated; for these people are eager to copy what are set before them as the duties and obligations of what they look up to as the superior race, even if these prove a restraint on the habits of license appertaining to their former condition.
An instance is given of the conscious pride with which a freedman, sworn as a witness for the first time, stood up to take the oath and deliver his testimony.
They were found quite willing, when it was proposed to them, to have the ties of husband and father legitimatized, especially by a ceremony performed in church, usually deeming it a privilege appertaining to emancipation to be married "as white folks are" With few exceptions, they show themselves prompt to acknowledge and ready to fulfil the obligations thus contracted.
As to any exceptional cases of refusal to marry when the former relationship is sufficiently proved, it is recommended, as to those under Government care, that, while they should not be permitted to co habit without marriage, the father should be required to his support his children and their mother.
A system of allotment from wages, in all cases, for support of families at home, is recommended, and the proper forms prepared.
Abundant evidence proves that colored refugees set a high value both on education for their children, and religious instruction for themselves. At Alexandria, one of the first acts of the negroes, when they found themselves free, was to establish schools at their own expense.
As a general rule, these people are more devotional than the whites. They have more resignation, more reliance on Divine Providence, but also more superstitions. These, the Commission think, should not be harshly dealt with. It is deemed more important sympathizingly to meet and encourage, in these untaught people, the religious sentiment which sways them, than to endeavor in a spirit of proselytism to replace their simple faith in the Divine goodness and protection by dogmas of a more elaborate and polemical character. Practically, as regards the Christian graces of kindness and humility, we have as much to learn from them as they from us.
Their schools, churches and physicians should be supported, in whole or in part, as soon as possible, by themselves.
Vaccination is recommended.
§ II.—NEGROES AS REFUGEES.
SOUTH CAROLINA AND FLORIDA.
The condition and the character of the slave in South Carolina differed in essential particulars from those of the slaves in Eastern Virginia and North Carolina. South Carolina is one of the States in which the system of Slavery seems to have reached its furthest development, with the least modification from contact with external civilization. There it has been darkening, in its shades of inhumanity, from year to year. The Commission found conclusive evidence that, half a century since, its phase was much milder than now. It is the uniform testimony of emancipated freedmen from this State above the age of sixty that, in their youth, Slavery was a merciful and considerate system compared with what it has been for thirty years past. These old men are bright and intelligent compared with the younger field hands, in many of whom a stolid, sullen despondency attests the stupefying influence of slave-driving under its more recent phase.
One of its marked effects was in a measure to efface the chief features of the family relation. The slave did not eat with his children or their mother-"there was no time for that." Even now the freedmen can hardly be broken of the life-long habit that each should clutch the dish containing his portion, and skulk off into a corner to devour it in solitude. At night, all ages and both sexes herded promiscuously in huts of a single room. Girls of 15, or younger, became mothers, without any pretence of fidelity to which even a slave could give the name of marriage. The protest of the church against such incontinency was not supported, save in exceptional cases, by the masters.
Some cases there were in which a slaveholder, either prompted by conviction or urged by a pious wife, suffered these connections to have a certain religious sanction; but it is evident that, as a rule, legal policy forbade the connecting of sacredness or indissoluble character with a relation which to-morrow the owner might choose to break up.
As little respect was usually paid to the maternal relation as to the marital. On most plantations, pregnancy neither exempted from corporal punishment, nor (except for three, sometimes four weeks after childbirth) from the ordinary field task. Humane masters sometimes, indeed, diminished that task as pregnancy advanced; but, on the other hand, cases occurred where the negress was overtaken by the pains of labor, and gave birth to her child, in the field.
The plantation of Mr. Aiken, one of the largest in the State, was a noble exception, among others, to this general system of inhumanity.
Under such a slave system as this, where humanity is the exception, the iron enters deep into the soul. Popular songs are the expression of the inner life; and
<c05>
the negro songs of South Carolina are, with scarcely an exception, plaintive, despondent, and religious. When there mingles a tone of mournful exultation, it has reference to the future glories of Zion, not to worldly hopes.
In the small isolated communities in some of the Sea Islands, the father and mother being often near blood relatives, and the least valuable slaves being usually placed there because of the unhealthy climate, the negroes, as a class, are decidedly inferior to those of more northern States. North Carolina slaves sent to South Carolina complained bitterly of the change.
The South Carolina negro, however, is found, with inconsiderable exceptions, to be susceptible of reform by judicious management. He takes kindly to work, if his wages are regularly paid. A superintendent who had had 17,000 negro refugees under his care for a year past, testified that he had scarcely found a case in which a colored man, having reasonable security of moderate wages, was not ready to labor. Evidence was given that many, who, as slaves, had been deemed cripples, or infirm, or superannuated, now, under the stimulus of wages, work ungrudgingly.
The most effectual agency, however, to give character to the race, is found to be military training. "As preparation for the life of a citizen, it is," testifies an officer in command of a colored regiment at Port Royal, "of unspeakable value."
Another witness deposed: "It is the best school in the world. If you could have seen the men who compose the colored regiments here as they were before, lounging about with shuffling gait and suspicious side-long glance, and could have contrasted their appearance with their present bold and erect carriage and free bearing, I am sure you would agree with me. It makes men of them at once."
The negro has a strong sense of the obligations of law. Law, in the shape of military rule, takes for him the place of his master, with this difference, that he submits to it cheerfully, and without sense of degradation.
These poor people have an almost superstitious reverence for the President. Recently, at Beaufort, some one in the presence of an aged negro was speaking of Mr. Lincoln as an ordinary mortal; whereupon, the old man interfered:
"What do you know," said he, "of Massa Linkum? He be ebery where. He walk de earth like de Lord!"
The religion of the South Carolina slave was emotional, and did not necessarily connect itself with the repression of vicious habits. It produced submission, humility, resignation, reliance on Providence; but its effect in checking lying, thieving, incontinence, and similar offences, was feeble and uncertain. To reform such vices, these people must be reached, as they readily may be, through their affections.
They are free from intemperance. They are unwilling to go North, or to return to Africa.
They love to accumulate, and especially to own land. Bounty lands in their own State, if assured to them, would be a most influential motive to enlist.
The negro of Florida, often employed as lumberman and in other avocations more calculated to call out his intelligence than the monotonous labor of the cotton-field, occupies an intermediate space between the slaves of North and those of South Carolina. He makes an excellent soldier.
§ III.—NEGROES AS MILITARY LABORERS.
In all the localities visited by the Commission, the demand for able-bodied negroes as laborers in the military service has exceeded the supply; often more than doubled it. For example, in North Carolina, the standing requisition from General Burnside was for five thousand laborers, but at no time was the Superintendent able to furnish more than two thousand. So at Fortress Monroe and elsewhere.
From officers of rank the Commission ascertained that, in May, 1863, more than ten thousand soldiers were detailed from the Army of the Potomac for duty in the Quartermaster's and Commissary departments, on fatigue duty at the various headquarters, on <illegible> for trains, laborers on entrenchments, and for cutting roads and building bridges, and men for ambulance corps, in hospitals, &c., one-eighth might be added to the available strength of our armies by employing negroes in services other than actual warfare. If we estimate our armies when recruited by the draft at 800,000 men, this would give, as the number of negroes that might be profitably employed as military laborers, 100,000. These would probably better fulfil duties of that character than white men detailed from the ranks; for all experienced officers know how difficult it is to obtain labor from soldiers outside of the regular routine of their duties.
The organization of freed men employed as military laborers into brigades, with badges around their hats labeled "United States Service"—the men marched regularly to and from work—has been found, in practice, to produce an excellent effect. It tends to inspire them with self-reliance, and it affords them protection.
§ IV.—NEGROES AS SOLDIERS.
The evidence which has come before the Commission bearing on the capacity of the negro as a soldier, induces them to recommend that the Government should bring into the field, as early as possible, two hundred thousand colored troops, or upward. They recommend this as alike advantageous to the cause of the Union and of the race to which these troops belong.
Colored troops, taking a pride in their position, exhibit great neatness and care of their persons, uniforms, arms and equipments, and in the police of their camps. Usually skillful cooks and providers, they exhibit resource in taking care of themselves in camp.
The religious sentiment strongly characterizing the African race may, in the case of the colored soldier, be successfully appealed to by leaders who share it as a powerful element of enthusiasm. If the officers in feel, and impart to their men the feeling, that they, are fighting in the cause of God and Liberty, the Commission believes that no part of the army may be more relied on than the colored regiments. But with these people more than with a more independent race, success depends upon sympathy between their officers and them. Thus, how important so ever the proper choice of officers in all cases, the Commission think it to be more important in the case of colored than of white troops: deeming it probable that colored troops badly officered might be liable to give way more readily than badly officered regiments of the more-self-reliant white race. Colored soldiers criticise their officers very sharply. There is as much difference in the standing of the officers in colored as in white regiments.
A distinguished general officer expressed to the Commission the opinion that, in case of alarm, negroes, accustomed to stand together against master and overseer, are disposed to segregate—to run to each other-while whites disperse—" each for himself, and God for us all!"
Negroes have proved themselves especially daring and serviceable as spies; and the organization of colored guides, in connection with each army corps, is recommended.
If one hundred thousand negroes be employed in military services other than actual warfare, and if 200,000 or more be mustered in as soldiers, we shall acquire the military services of at least 300,000 blacks. But this number of able-bodied men represents a population of a million and a half, being one-half of all the colored people in the insurrectionary States.
To reach this number there is needed, besides military successes, a strict enforcement of the orders issued by the Government, that the colored refugees be treated with humanity. Upon such treatment it depends, in a great measure, whether we can have the full military advantage which, in the contest, we ought to have, from the aid of the negro race, and whether the military resources of the South shall be sapped by disintegration of her labor system.
<c06>
Examples are given in which, in spite of the efforts of Provost-Marshals, negro refugees have been plundered by our pickets as they entered the Union lines and it is recommended that such offences be severely punished, seeing that, independently of their inherent criminality, their practical effect is to discourage the emigration of those whom, as soldiers, we desire to enlist. A general order on the subject is recommended.
The Commission also recommend, as to all property brought in by negro refugees , that when taken by the Quartermaster for the public service, it be paid for as other property of loyal men is paid for, to the refugee if he make no demand on the Government for support of himself or family; otherwise, that the proceeds go into the Freedmen's Fund.
While refugees should not be exempted from <illegible> if draft be necessary, the Commission express the opinion, founded on actual observation and testimony, that if men of the proper stamp are selected as negro superintendents, they can and will procure the voluntary enlistment of a much larger proportion of negroes than is called for by the draft. Most of the freedom can be made to understand, by a proper appeal, <illegible> only by proving their manhood as soldiers–only through a baptism of blood—can they obtain, in this generation, such a change in public opinion as will Insure to their race respect and decent treatment, is, its social relations with whites.
It has been found in practice that it is easy, by judicious treatment, to create among these people a state of public opinion such that every able-bodied man among them who refuses to enter the public service when required, is tabooed by his fellows as a <illegible> despicable fellow. Such means as these the Commission recommend, before resorting to <illegible> measures; both because they will more effectually fill the ranks, and because they will promote while coercion will retard, the exodus from Rebeldom of freedmen there held as slaves.
The Commission especially recommend, as a policy demanded alike by humanity and expediency, that is all colored soldiers of the United States there be extended, as prisoners of war and under all other circumstances, the same protection as to white tropes, and that pains be taken to make this widely and <illegible> known.
§ V.-CHARACTER OF ORGRANIZATION PROPOSED
The labors of the Commission have not yet so for advanced as to justify them in recommending a definite system for the ultimate solution of one of the greatest social problems ever presented to a government, namely, how a great and radical industrial change, eventually involving the eradication of a labor system which has been the growth of two centuries, shall be facilitated and directed. Such a change, the Commission believe, cannot be safely left undirected, and uncared for, to work itself out, drifting on at hap-hazard, according to the chance-currents of daily events. A main question is whether, and how soon, the American freedman, with the dependence <illegible> by the slave system still clinging to him and weighed down in his efforts to rise by that prejudice which prompts men to despise whoever has long <illegible> their inferior, will be able peaceably to maintain his new rights, and to protect himself against under ascendency and imposition by the white man.
On one point the Commission are already agreed, namely, that a scheme of guardianship and protection for one race of men against another race inhabiting the same country, cannot become a permanent institution. If the necessity for the constant operation of such a scheme could be proved, the proof would amount to this—that the two races cannot <illegible> perpetuity inhabit the same country at all, and that the one must ultimately give way to the other 
The Commission are, therefore, of opinion that special governmental measures for the guardianship of refugee freedmen should be more or less temporary in their character, and should be prepared and administered in that idea and intent.
The Commission state with satisfaction, that they have found the negro slave of the South—though it some respects resembling a child, from the dependence in which he has been trained, and the unreasoning obedience that has been exacted from him, and therefore seeking and needing, for a season, encouragement and direction—yet by no means devoid of practical sagacity, and usually learning, readily and quickly, to shift for himself.
The Commission recommend that freedmen's camps where refugees are first received, should be regarded as places of reception and distribution only. The aggregation of these people in military villages is demoralizing, especially for women and children. The sooner the men are employed as military laborers or otherwise, and the women and children either cared for by the father of the family, or distributed on abandoned plantations, the better.
Even working of plantations by Government should be undertaken only as a temporary expedient. As soon as loyal and respectable owners or lessees of plantations are found ready to hire them at to fair wages, that is to be preferred. Or when freedmen evince ability to manage a small farm or market such spots may be assigned to them at moderate rent, until Congress shall adopt, if it sees fit to adopt, some permanent policy as to these lands.
It is shown by the figures to be better and cheaper when plantations are worked by Government to pay the freedmen wages, than to give them rations and promise them half the crop.
It is recommended to benevolent, societies, as a general rule, instead of distributing clothing gratuitously, to establish stores in which, at moderate profit, food, clothing, and other necessaries of good quality might be supplied to the freedmen. This has already been successfully tried.
Regularity and promptitude in the payment of wages by Government is earnestly recommended as one of the most essential elements of judicious treatment. Freedmen should learn as soon as possible that Emancipation means neither idleness nor gratuitous labor, but fair work for fair wages. When negroes are regularly paid, a single threat, namely, of dismissal, usually suffices to check laziness other delinquency.
The Commission recommend that negroes acknowledging wives and children should be legally married, and the obligation to support their families carefully taught to them.
As a basis of a system of organization, the Commission recommend a strict and comprehensive system of registrations, to take effect as each refugee enters our line.
The Commission express the opinion that except when military exigencies intervene, the organizations for the care of refugees should be substantially separate from the ordinary military administration of the army. This feature was submitted to and approved by the Generals commanding at the various posts visited by the Commission.
§ VI.-DETAILS OF ORGANIZATION PROPOSED.
The plan of provisional organization suggested by the Commission is proposed to extend for the presents over those portions of the country only with which the Commission have become acquainted; namely, the District of Columbia, Eastern Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. The Commission have sought to adapt this plan not to the present immediate wants alone, but to meet such additional occupancy by Union troops, of these four States, as is likely to occur for a year to come.
The Commission propose:
1. That the above region of country constitute three superintendence’s or departments, the first comprising the District of Columbia and Eastern Virginia; the second extending over North Carolina; the third including South Carolina and Florida.
2. That for each of these superintendencies, there be appointed a Department superintendent.
3. That there be appointed a Resident Superintendent for each important station in the Department, with not less than 3,000 freedmen to care for; and
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
when the number in the Residency exceeds 8,000, he may have an Assistant. There is a provision for the necessary Clerks and Foremen.
4.That there be detailed, as superintendent General of Freedmen, an officer not under the rank of a Brigadier-General, to whom and to his staff be assigned an office in the War Department; his staff officers acting as Secretaries, and otherwise aiding him in the duties of superintendents. This officer to have the general supervision, throughout the United States, of the colored population emancipated by acts of Congress and by the President’s Proclamation. To him all reports by Superintendents and all requisitions are to be addressed, and to be by him laid before the Secretary of War.
If, as the Freedmen’s’ Superintendencies increase in number and importance, the Superintendent-General <illegible> fit, he may, from time to time, call together the Department Superintendents, to sit for a few days for consultation and comparison of mutual experiences, and of such a Board he shall be Chairman.
A competent Surgeon and Hospital Steward to be appointed for each Residency, and an Assistant Surgeon when the numbers demand it, to be paid, for the time being but not permanently, by the Government.
The importance of instruction, educational and religious, is strongly urged, and the eagerness of these people to receive it is dwelt on. For a time it is believed that some aid from Government especially in pay of school teachers, will be required; but ultimately, and before long, the Commission believe the freedmen will support both their churches and schools-<illegible> probably, the former. The freedmen at Newbern recently invited a private of the 43d Massachusetts Volunteers, a Methodist having a license to preach to become their pastor at a salary of $1,000 a year.
[Many additional details of the plan of organization are given, but here omitted, as devoid of special interest to the public generally.]
Finally the Commission recommend that, wherever the ordinary Courts of Justice are suspended, a provost Judge should be temporarily appointed; and also that the proper Department Superintendent be vested with authority to bring to conciliation and settlement all difficulties arising between freedmen, except <illegible> when these are so grave that resort to a legal tribunal becomes necessary; and such the Commission have reason to believe are extremely rare. In the settlement of minor cases, in the absence of the Department Superintendent, the Resident Superintendent may act. It is recommended that Superintendents act as arbitrators rather than as formal Judges, and that a spirit of litigation be discouraged.
The Commission record their profound conviction that on the Judicious selection of the Superintendent-General, and of the Department Superintendents, will mainly depend the successful practical workings of this plan. The African race, accustomed to protect itself by cunning against oppression, and to shirk forced work by evasion, is yet alive to gratitude, open to impressions of kindness, and more easily led when its confidence is gained than our race, or perhaps any other. On the other hand, these refugees, as readily spoiled as children, must not be treated with weak and injurious indulgence. Mild firmness is needed to control them. They must find themselves treated, not as children of preference or objects of charity, but as men from whom, in their new character of freedmen, self-reliance and self-support are demanded.
§ VII—GENERAL RESULTS.
The problem in the solution of which the Commission have been called to aid is of a mixed character. Together with obvious and imperative considerations of humanity, it involves great questions of Christian civilization and of statesmanship. But most urgent at the present moment are its relations with the national struggle in which we are engaged, and with the issue of that struggle for good or evil.
Proposing hereafter to embody in a more maturely considered Report the more complex and difficult inquiries of a general character above suggested, the Commission dismiss these for the present with a single brief remark.
The observation of the Commission, in the sections of country visited by them, together with the evidence obtained from those having most experience among freedmen, justify the conclusion that the African race, as found among us, lacks no essential aptitude for civilization. In a general way, the negro yields willingly to its restraints, and enters upon its duties, not with alacrity only, but with evident pride and increase of self-respect. His personal rights as a freeman once recognized in law and assured in practice, there is little reason to doubt that he will become a useful member of the great industrial family of nations. Once released from the disabilities of bondage, he will some-where find, and will maintain, his own-appropriate social position.
The commission revert to the question in its relation to the existing insurrection. Its importance in that connection can hardly be over-estimated. If the slaves of the South are loyal to the Union, the North will have but itself to blame if the war is not speedily and triumphantly closed. Scarcely any other question, therefore, is more intimately connected with the future destiny—prosperous or decadent—of this Nation.
But, in point of fact, it admits of no reasonable doubt that the Southern slaves, as a body, do desire release from bondage, from forced and often excessive labor, from arbitrary and often inhuman punishment. Their masters have sought to inspire them with a dread of "Yankee Abolitionists;" but while doubtless assenting, as the habit of the slave is, to these denunciations of Northern Emancipationists, all facts prove that these men, as a general rule, see through the flimsy pretence, and are willing to risk severe punishment, sometimes death itself, whenever they have good reason to hope that, in deserting their masters, they will find in us just and sincere friends, able and willing to put them in a condition in which they may enjoy the results of their own labor.
But we, by our policy toward these people, may encourage, or we may discourage, that hope. The point on which they are peculiarly sensitive and chiefly need assurance is, as to the absolute and irrevocable certainly of their freedom. We cannot expect this untutored race to understand the abstract proposition, that a great nation, after having solemnly declared, through its Chief Magistrate, that 3,000,000, of its inhabitants shall be forever free, cannot, without utter degradation in the eyes of the civilized world, repudiate that declaration, and reconsign these millions to slavery. They must have more tangible proof of the reality and unchangeable character of their emancipation. They must feel themselves treated as freemen, before they can fully realize the fact that they are, and will forever remain such.
We, by our misconduct, may give color and force to the misrepresentation of slaveholders touching our ultimate intentions toward the negro race. We may cause doubts in the minds of this enslaved people, whether, in flying from ills they know, they may not encounter worse ills by the change.
Every aggression, every act of injustice committed by a Northern man against unoffending fugitives from despotism, every insult offered by the base prejudice of our race to a colored man, because of his African decent, is not only a breach of humanity, an offence against civilization, but it is also an act which gives and comfort to the enemy. The report of it goes abroad—penetrates into the enemy’s country. So far as its influence there extends, the effect is to deter the slave from leaving his master; therefore, to secure to that master a bread-producer; and, by the same act, to deprive the Union of a colored soldier, and compel the Government, by conscription, to withdraw a laborer from a Northern farm.
The practical effect, therefore, of abuse and injury to colored people in these days, is not alone to disgrace the authors of such acts, but to compel conscription, and to denude the North, already scant of work-
<c02>
ing hands, of the laborers and artisans that remain to her. Thousands of fields owned by white men may remain untilled, thousands of hearths, owned by white men may be made desolate, all as the direct result of the ill-treatment of the colored race.
Such a spirit is not treasonable in the usual sense of that term; yet its results are the same as those of treason itself. It becomes, therefore, in a military point of view, of the highest importance, that all wanton acts of aggression, by soldiers or by civilians, whether against refugees or against free negroes heretofore settled in the North, should be promptly and resolutely repressed; and the penalties of the law, in every such case, rigorously enforced. A prudent regard for our own safety and welfare, if no higher motive prompt, demands the taking of such precautions.
We have imposed upon ourselves an additional obligation to see justice and humanity exercised toward these people, in accepting their services as soldiers. It would be a degree of baseness of which we hope our country is incapable, to treat with contumely the defenders of the Union, the men who shall have confronted death on the battle-field, side by side with the bravest of our own race, in a struggle in which the stake is the existence, in peace and in their integrity, of these United States.
We are unjust to our enemies if we deny that this struggle has been a hard fought one, contested bravely and with varying success. A people with an element of semi-barbarism in their society, giving birth to habits of violence and of lawless daring, are, in some respects, well prepared for war. Add to this, that our task is the more arduous, because, to quell the rebellion, we have had to become the invaders. Under these circumstances, can we overlook the fact, that several hundred thousand able-bodied men, detached from the laboring ranks of the enemy, and incorporated in the Army of the North, may essentially influence the decision of the issue?
There is an additional reason why a considerable portion of the Union armies should be made up of persons of African descent. The transformation of the Slave Society of the South into Free Society, no longer properly a question, has become a necessity of our national existence. Reflecting men have already reached the conclusion, and the mass of our people are attaining to it, day by day, that the sole condition of permanent peace on this continent is the eradication of negro slavery. But the history of the world furnishes no example of an enslaved race which won its freedom without exertion of its own. That the indiscriminate massacres of a servile insurrection have been spared us, as addition to the horrors of a civil war, is due, it would seem, rather to that absence of revenge and blood-thirstiness which characterizes this race, than to the lack either of courage or of any other quality that makes the hardy combatant; for these the negro appears, so far as we have tried him in civilized warfare, to possess. And in such warfare is it fitting that the African race seek its own social salvation. The negro must fight for Emancipation, if he is to be emancipated.
If, then, Emancipation be the price of National Unity and of Peace, and if a people, to be emancipated, must draw the sword in their own cause, then is the future welfare of the white race in our country indissolubly connected with an act of justice, on our part, toward people of another race; then is it the sole condition under which we may expect—and, if history speak truth, the sole condition under which we shall attain—domestic tranquillity, that we shall give the negro an opportunity of working out, on those battlefields that are to decide our own national destiny, his destiny, whether as slave or as freedman, at the same time.
The Commission have been instructed to report how colored freedmen "can be most usefully employed in the service of the Government for the suppression of the Rebellion." The above remarks may suffice as the record of their profound conviction, that no more effectual aid can be had in the speedy suppression of the Rebellion and the restoration of permanent peace, than is to be obtained by inducing the hearty cooperation of these freedmen, and by giving full scope to their energies as military laborers and soldiers during the continuance of the war.
It is here worthy of remark that in receiving any given number of colored emigrants from the rebel States, a much larger proportion of field laborers is to found than in the same number of white emigrants; the reason being that the women as well as the men— even girls of 15 and upward—are usually accustomed to plantation labor, and often, from the force of habit, prefer it to any other. This is an important item in estimating the aid which may be derived from negro refugees.
Upon the whole, the Commission conclude that there is not the least risk that such refugees will flock to us more rapidly than they are needed, and than they can be advantageously employed. The only question is, whether we shall be able to induce them to join us in such numbers and as speedily as is to be desired, It is in our hands to hasten the time and increase the number. And it is doubtful whether, in the conduct; of the war, there is a more important duty to perform.
New York, June 30, 1863.

WHAT IS TO BE DONE WITH REBELDOM.
To the Union League of Philadelphia.
GENTLEMEN—Your letter has been received, in which you have done me the honor of requesting me to address the members of the Union League of Philadelphia upon subjects connected with the present state of public affairs.
I have expected, until recently, to be able to comply with your invitation; but as my engagements will, for the present, place it out of my power to do so, I beg permission to make a few suggestions for your consideration.
Dangers in the Present Crisis of the War.
However brilliant the success of our military operations has been, the country is encompassed by dangers. Two wars are still waged between the citizens of the United States—a war of Arms, and a war of Ideas. Achievements in the field cannot much outstrip the victories of the forum. While we fix our attention upon the checkered fortunes of our heroic soldiers, and trace their marches over hills and villages made memorable through all time by their disasters or their triumphs; while we are filled with alternating hopes and fears, with exultations and disappointments; while our brothers and sons are rudely torn from their homes, and the weeds of the mother and sister record in the family the tearful glory of the fallen brave; while the movements of our vast armies, in all the pomp, pride, and circumstance of glorious war—the thunder of their guns—the news of their brilliant successes fill the head and heart, let us not forget that there is another war, waged by men not less brave, for victories not less renowned, than are won on battle-fields.
The deadly struggle is between civilization and barbarism—freedom and slavery—republicanism and aristocracy—loyalty and treason.
The true patriot will watch with profound interest the fortunes of this intellectual and moral conflict, because the issue involves the country’s, safety, prosperity and honor. If victory shall crown the efforts of those brave men who believe and trust in God, then shall all this bloody sacrifice, be consecrated, and the years of suffering shall exalt us among the nations; if we fail, no triumph of brute force can compensate the world for our unfathomable degradation.
Let us then endeavor to appreciate the difficulties of our present position.
Of several subjects to which, were it now in my power, I would ask your earnest attention,. I can speak of one only.
As the success of the Union cause shall become more certain and apparent to the enemy in various localities, they will lay down arms and cease fighting. Their bitter and deep-rooted hatred of the Government, and of all Northern men who are not traitors, and of all Southern men who are loyal, will still re-
<c03>
main interwoven in every fibre of their hearts., and will be made, if possible, more intense by the humiliation of conquest and subjection. The foot of the conqueror planted upon their proud necks will not sweeten their tempers, and their defiant and treacherous nature will seek to revenge itself in murders, assassinations, and all underhand methods of venting a spite which they dare not manifest by open war, and in driving out of their borders all loyal men. To suppose that a Union sentiment will remain in any considerable number of men, among a people who have strained every nerve and made every sacrifice to destroy the Union, indicates dishonesty, insanity or feebleness of intellect.
The inhabitants of the conquered districts will begin by claiming the right to exercise the powers of government, and under their construction of State rights, to get control of the lands, personal property, slaves, free blacks, and poor whites, and a legalized power, through the instrumentality of State laws, made to answer their own purposes, to oppose and prevent the execution of the Constitution and laws of the United States, within districts of the country inhabited by them.
Thus, for instance—When South Carolina shall have ceased fighting, she will say to the President, "We have now laid down our arms; we submit to the authority of the United States Government. You may restore your Custom House, your Courts of Justice; and if we hold any public property, we give it up; we now have chosen Senators and Representatives to Congress, and demand their admission, and the full establishment of all our State rights and our restoration to all our former privileges and immunities as citizens of the United States."
This demand is made by men who are traitors in heart; men who hate and despise the Union; men who never had a patriotic sentiment; men who, if they could, would hang every friend of the Government. But, for the sake of getting power into their own hands by our concession, which they could not obtain by fighting, and for the sake of avoiding their national crimes, they will demand restoration under the guise of claiming State rights.
What will be the consequences of yielding to this demand?
They will gain the right of managing their affairs according to their will and pleasure, and not according to the will and pleasure of the People of the United States.
They will be enabled by the intervention of their State laws and State courts to put and maintain themselves in effectual and perpetual opposition to the laws and Constitution of the United States, as they have done for thirty-five years past. They will have the power to pass such local laws as will effectually exclude all Northern men, all soldiers, all free blacks, and all persons and things which shall be inconsistent with the theory of making slavery the corner-stone of their local government; and they may make slavery perpetual, in violation of the Laws of the United States and Proclamations of the President. They may continue the enforcement of those classes of laws against free speech and freedom of the press, which will forever exclude popular education, and all other means of moral, social and political, advancement. They may send back to Congress the same traitors and conspirators who have once betrayed the country into civil war, and who will thwart and embarrass all measures tending to restore the Union by harmonizing the interests and the institutions of the people; and so, being introduced into camp, as the wooden horse into Troy, gain by fraud and treason that which they could not achieve by feats of arms. The insanity of State-rights’ doctrines will be nourished and strengthened by admitting back a conquered people as our equals, and its baleful influence cannot be estimated!
The solemn pledge of freedom offered to the colored citizens by Congress and by the Proclamation must be broken, and the country and the government covered with unspeakable infamy. Even foreign nations might then justly consider us guilty of treachery to the cause of humanity and civilization.
Suppose, to-day, the rebellion quelled and the question put, Will you now give up to your enemy the power of making your laws?
Eastern Virginia, Florida and Louisiana are now knocking at the door of Congress for admission into the Union. Men come to Washington, chosen by a handful of associates; elevated, by revolution, to un-accustomed dignity; representing themselves as Union men, and earnest to have State rights bestowed on their constituents.
If their constituents are clothed with the power to constitute a State, into whose hands will that power fall?
Beware of committing yourselves to the fatal doctrine of recognizing the existence, in the Union, of States which have been declared, by the President’s Proclamation, to be in rebellion. For, by this new device of the enemy—this new version of the poisonous State-rights’ doctrine—the secessionists will be able to get-back by fraud what they failed to get by fighting. Do not permit them, without proper safeguards, to resume in your counsels in the Senate and House the power which their treason has stripped from them.
Do not allow old States, with their Constitutions still unaltered, to resume State powers.
Be true to the Union men of the South; not to the designing politicians of the Border States. The rebellious States contain ten times as many traitors as loyal men. The traitors will have a vast majority of the votes. Clothed with State-rights under our Constitution, they will crush out every Union man by the irresistible power of their legislation. If you would be true to the Union men of the South, you must not bind them hand and foot, and deliver them over to their bitterest enemies.
Beware of entangling yourselves with the technical doctrine of FORFEITURES of State? Rights; as such doctrines admit, by necessary implication, the operation of a code of laws and of corresponding civil rights, the existence of which you deny.
The solution of all our difficulty rests in the enforcement, against our public enemy, of our belligerent rights of civil war.
When the insurrection commenced by illegal acts of secession and by certain exhibitions of force against the Government, in distant parts of the country, it was supposed that the insurgents might be quelled and peace restored without requiring a large military force, and without involving those who did not actively participate in overt acts of treason.
Hence the Government, relying upon the patriot ism of the people, and confident in its strength, exhibited a generous forbearance towards the insurrectionists.
When, at last, seventy-five thousand of the military were called out, the President still relied upon the Union sentiment of the South: still announced the intention not to interfere with loyal men; but, on the contrary, to regard their rights as still under the protection of the Constitution. The action of Congress was in accordance with this policy. The war wage by this Government was then a personal war, a was against rebels; a war prosecuted in the hope and belief that the body of this people were still friendly to the Union, who, temporarily overborne, would soon right themselves by the aid of the Army. Hence Congress declared and the President proclaimed the that it was not their object to injure loyal men; to interfere with their rights or their domestic institutions.
This position of the Government towards the rebellious States was just, forbearing and magnanimous while the citizens thereof were generally loyal. But the revolution swept onward. The entire circle of the Southern States abandoned the Union, and carried with them all the border States which they could it influence or control.
Having set up a new government for themselves; having declared war against us; having sought for sign alliances; having passed acts of non intercourse; having seized public property and made attempts to invade States which refused to serve their cause;
<c04>
having raised and maintained large armies and an incipient navy; assuming, in all respects to act as an independent, hostile nation at war with the United States—claiming belligerent rights as an independent people alone could claim them, and offering to enter into treaties of alliance with foreign countries and of treaties of peace with ours;—under these circumstances, they were no longer merely insurgents and rebels, but became a belligerent public enemy. The war was no longer against "certain persons" in the rebellious States. It became a territorial war—that is to say, a war by all persons situated in the belligerent territory against the United States.
If we were in a war with England, every Englishman would become a public enemy irrespective of his personal feelings towards America. However friendly he might be towards America, his ships on the sea would be liable to capture; himself would be liable to be killed in battle, or his property situated in this country would be subject to confiscation.
By a similar rule of the law of nations, whenever two nations are at war, every subject of one belligerent nation is a public enemy of the other.
An individual may be a personal friend, and at the same time a public enemy to the United States. The law of war defines international relations.
When the civil war in America became a territorial war, every citizen residing in the belligerent districts became a public enemy, irrespective of his private sentiments, whether loyal or disloyal, friendly or hostile, unionist or secessionist, guilty or innocent.
As public enemies, the belligerents have claimed to be exchanged as prisoners of war, instead admitting our right to hang them as murderers and pirates. As public enemies, they claim the right to make war upon us, in plain violation of many of the obligations they would have admitted, if they acknowledged the obligations or claimed the protection of our Constitution.
If they had claimed any State rights under our Constitution, they would not have violated every one of the provisions thereof, limiting the powers of States. Asserting no such rights, they claim immunity from all obligations as States, or as a people—to this Government or to the United States.
Two questions must be considered.
1st. When did the rebellion become a territorial, civil war?
2nd. What are the rights of the enemy under the laws of war?
The first question has been settled by the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of the Hiawatha, decided on the 9th of March, 1863. In that case, which should be read and studied by every citizen of the Union, the members of the Court differed in opinion as to the TIME when the war became territorial. The majority decided that when the fact of general hostilities existed, the war was territorial, and the Supreme Court was bound to take judicial cognizance thereof. The minority argued that, as Congress alone had power to declare war, so Congress alone has power to recognize the existence of war; and they contended that it was not until the Act of Congress of July 13th, 1861, commonly called the Non-Intercourse Act, that a state of civil, territorial war was legitimately recognized. All the Judges agree in the position “"that since July 13th, 1861, there has existed between the United States and the Confederate States a civil, territorial war.
"That since that time the United States have full, belligerent rights against all persons residing in the districts declared by the President’s Proclamation to be in rebellion."
That the laws of war, "whether that war be civil or inter gentes, converts every citizen of the hostile State into a public enemy, and treats him accordingly, what-ever may have been his previous conduct."
That all the rights derived from the laws of war may NOW, since 1861, be lawfully and constitutionally exercised against all the citizens of the districts in rebellion.
Such being the law of the land, as declared by the Supreme Court, in order to ascertain what are the legal or constitutional rights of public enemies, we have only to refer to the settled principles of the belligerent law of nations, or the laws of war.
Some of the laws of war are stated in the dissenting opinion, in the case above mentioned.
A state of foreign war instantly annuls the most solemn treaties between nations. It terminates all obligations in the nature of compacts or contracts, at the option of the party obligated thereby. It destroys all claims of one belligerent upon the other, except those which may be sanctioned by a treaty of peace. A civil, territorial war has the same effect, excepting, only, that the sovereign may treat the rebels as subjects as well as belligerents.
Hence, civil war, in which the belligerents have become territorial enemies, instantly annuls all rights or claims of public enemies against the United States, under the Constitution or laws, whether that Constitution be called a compact, a treaty, or a covenant, and whether the parties to it were States, in their sovereign capacity, or the people of the United States as individuals.
Any other result would be as incomprehensible as it would be mischievous. A public enemy cannot, lawfully, claim the right of entering Congress, and voting down the measures taken to subdue him!
Why not? Because he is a public enemy; because, by becoming a public enemy, he has annulled and lost his rights in the Government, and can never regain them, except by our consent.
If the inhabitants of a large part of the Union have, by becoming public enemies, surrendered and annulled their former rights, the question arises, can they recover them? Such rights cannot be regained by reason of their having ceased to fight. The character of a public enemy having once been stamped upon them by the laws of war, remains fixed until it shall have been, by our consent, removed.
To stop fighting does not make them cease to be public enemies, because they may have laid down their arms for want of powder, not for want of will. Peace does not restore the noble dead who have fallen a sacrifice to treason. Nor does it revive the rights once extinguished by civil, terrible war. The land of the Union belongs to the people of the United States, subject to the rights of individual ownership. Each person inhabiting those sections of the country declared by the President’s Proclamation to be in rebellion, has the right to what belongs to a public enemy, and no more. He can have no right to take any part in our Government. That right does not belong to an enemy of the country, while he is waging war, or after he has been subdued. A public enemy has a right to participate in, or to assume the Government of, the United States only when he has conquered the United States. We find in this well settled doctrine of belligerent law the solution of all questions in relation to State rights. After the inhabitants of a district have become public enemies, they have no rights, either State or personal, against the United States. They are belligerents only, and have left to them only belligerent rights.
Suppose that all the inhabitants living in South Carolina should be swept off, so that solitude should reign throughout its borders, unbroken, by any living thing, would the State rights of South Carolina still exist as attached to the land itself?
Can there be a sovereignty without a people, or a State without inhabitants? State rights, so far as they concern the Union, are the rights of persons, as members of a State, in relation to the General Government; and when the person has become a public enemy, then he loses all rights except the rights of war. And when all the inhabitants have (by engaging in civil, territorial war,) become public enemies, it is the same, in legal effect, as though the inhabitants had been annihilated. So far as this Government is concerned, civil war obliterates all lines of States or countries; the only lines recognized by war are the lines which separate us from a public enemy.
I do not place reliance upon the common law doctrine of forfeitures of franchises as applicable to this revolution, for forfeiture can be founded only upon the
<c05>
admission of the validity of the act in which forfeiture is founded.
Nor does the belligerent law of civil, territorial war, where by a public enemy loses his rights as a citizen, admit the right of secession. It is not any vote or law of secession that makes an individual a public enemy. A person may commit heinous offences against municipal law, and commit acts of hostility against the Government, without being a public enemy. To be a personal enemy is not to be a public enemy to the country, in the eye of belligerent or international law. Whoso engages in an insurrection is a personal enemy, but it is not until that insurrection has swelled into territorial war, that he becomes a public enemy.
It must also be remembered that the right of secession is not conceded by enforcement of belligerent law, since, in civil war, a nation has the right to treat its citizens either as subjects, or as belligerents, or as both. Hence, while belligerent law destroys all claims of subjects engaged in civil war, as against the parent government, it does not release the subject from his duties to that government. By war the subject loses his rights, but does not escape his obligations.
The inhabitants of the conquered districts will thus lose their right to govern us, but will not escape their obligations to obey us. Whatever rights are left to them, besides the rights of war, will be such as we choose to allow them. It is for us to dictate to them, not for them to dictate to us what privileges they shall enjoy.
Among the war measures sanctioned by the President, to which he has, more than once, pledged his sacred honor, and which Congress has enforced by solemn laws, is the liberation of slaves. The Government has invited them to share the dangers, the honor and the advantages of sustaining the Union, and has pledged itself to the world for their freedom.
Whatever disasters may befall our arms, whatever humiliations may be in store for us, it is earnestly hoped that we may be saved the unfathomable infamy of breaking the nation’s faith with Europe, and with colored citizens and slaves in the Union.
Now if the rebellions States shall attempt to return to the Union with Constitutions guaranteeing the perpetuity of slavery; if the laws of those States shall be again revived and put in force against free blacks and slaves, we shall, at once, have reinstated in the Union, in all its force and wickedness, that very curse which has brought on the war and all its terrible train of sufferings. The war is fought by slaveholders for the perpetuity of slavery. Shall we hand over to them, at the end of the war, just what they have been fighting for? Shall all our blood and treasure be spilled uselessly upon the ground? Shall the country not protect itself against the evil which has caused all our woes? Will you breathe new life into the strangled serpent, when, without your aid, he will perish?
If you concede State rights to your enemies, what security can you have that traitors will not pass State laws which will render the position of the blacks intolerable; or reduce them all to slavery?
Would it be honorable on the part of the United States to free these men, and then hand them over to the tender mercy of slave laws?
Will it be possible that State slave laws should exist and be enforced by slave States, without overriding the rights guaranteed by the United States law to men, irrespective of color, in the slave States?
Will you run the risk of these angry collisions of State and National laws, while you have the remedies and antidote in your own hands?
One of two things should be done in order to keep faith with the country and save us from obvious peril.
Allow the inhabitants of conquered territory to form themselves into States, only by adopting constitutions such as will forever remove all cause of collision with the United States, by excluding slavery therefrom, or continue military government over the conquered district until there shall appear therein a sufficient number of loyal inhabitants to form a republican government, which, by guaranteeing freedom to all, shall be in accordance with the true spirit of the Constitution of the United States. These safeguards of freedom are requisite to render permanent the domestic tranquility of the country; which the Constitution, itself, was formed to secure, and which it is the legitimate object of this war to maintain.
With great respect,
Your obedient servant,
WILLIAM WHITING.

GEN. GEORGE GORDON MEADE.
We fear he is not altogether the man for his place. After the battle of Gettysburg, (which seems to have been planned by Howard rather than Meade,) I felt that our army might break up Lee’s, and so end the war, and I talked thus with my family and friends. As day after day rolled on, and Lee’s army hardly harassed even, such cruel pusillanimity seemed insupportable. By the way, I object to the notion that all our ideas of matters pertaining to armies and military movements must be left to the dicta of military men, and to such of them as may be on the particular battle ground. We will not take space to argue or illustrate this thing now, but simply suggest, that all arts and professions, at some points, come within the range of common sense. And I have noticed that, in almost every instance where the turning back of criticism bestowed upon a General, has been attempted under the plea, "We cannot judge," it has afterwards had to be conceded that the criticism was valid. Who now doubts but that Meade could have discomfited Lee?
Until I saw the Liberator of August 7, I did not know that Meade, in not attacking the enemy, disobeyed the orders of his superiors. A very intelligent and high surgeon of the Potomac army said, last fall, "McClellan’s spirit is still in the army." Is some of it in Gen. Meade, and in some of the Major Generals under him?
The American Phrenological Journal, for the present month, has a portrait of Gen. Meade, and some laudatory remarks upon his character; yet it contains this sentence:—"There is evidence of considerable executiveness; but we should have been glad to see more breadth at the base of the brain, a broader chest, a stronger flow of arterial blood, and more vital power generally. If he lacks anything as a commander, it will be the fiery energy and dash which often carry less able men to victory." The phrenological remarks were made before the battle of Gettysburg. As I glance at his cranium, there seems to me to be a marked deficiency of benevolence, and a dainty, aristocratic look, which, when truly indicative, reveals a character that never yet efficiently and consistently served a liberal cause. Still, I would leave a wide margin for correction and charity. What an inspiration seems to crown the head of Fremont?! and is there any thorough, uncompromising friend of the North, who doubts that he ought to be in Meade’s place? Can he not get there? The surgeon to whom I referred had been a prisoner among the rebels; and he found, whenever they talked out, they invariably acknowledged and declared, John C. Fremont to be our mighty and matchless man. But they trumpeted for McClellan, and for a reason—while they conceived of Gen. Fremont as their Lee and Jackson united. This noble surgeon only testified what others had supposed. L. H.
P. S. In my brief article on the Boston Journal and The New Book, you have, "it defiantly stabs," where it should be, "it deftly stabs." I mean dexterously. Defiance is never a virtue or vice in that paper.
 THE REBELLION RECORD. Edited by Frank Moore. Part XXXIII. New York: G. P. Putnam. General agent, C. T. Evans. 1868. 8vo.
Consisting mostly of documents from about Oct. 15, 1862, to the middle of January, 1863, including part of the reports on the battle of Murfreesboro’. The portraits are of Brigadier-General J. G. Barnard and Rear-Admiral David D. Porter.
<c06>
THE OFFICERS AND MEN OF THE MASSACHUSETTS 54TH. The friends of officers and men, "white and black," belonging to our gallant 54th Massachusetts regiment, will read the following letter with interest and gratitude. It was drawn forth by a letter from Senator Sumner, calling attention to the condition of prisoners at Charleston belonging to this regiment, and asking protection for Capt. Russell, Capt. Simpkins, and for their men. It will be seen that our government is determined to do its whole duty:
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, August 4, 1863.
DEAR SIR: Every effort has been and will be made by this Department to obtain the release of Captain Russell, Captain Simpkins, and the other gallant officers and soldiers, white and black, who fell into the hands of the enemy at Fort Wagner. You will perceive, by the papers, an order from the President determining what the action of the government will be for the purpose of affording all the protection in its power against the barbarism of the enemy.
Yours, truly, EDWIN M. STANTON.
Hon. CHARLES SUMNER, Boston, Mass.

DEATH OF WILLIAM L. YANCEY. William Lowndes Yancey, whose death is announced from Richmond, was born in Columbia, S.C., in 1815, but at an early age removed to Alabama, where he served in the legislature, and was, in 1844, elected to Congress, serving for two terms, voting in 1845 for the admission of Texas.
In the National Democratic Convention in 1848 he nominated Mr. Cass for the Presidency. From that time forward he was a leader of the extreme Southern party, always advocating state rights and favoring secession. He was among the seceding delegates to the Charleston Convention, and subsequently warmly advocated the election of Breckenridge.
He was among the principal originators of the rebellion, and as a member of the Alabama Convention reported the ordinance of secession, which was passed January 14th, 1861.
In February following he was sent to Europe to present the claims of the rebels to recognition at the hands of the Great Powers. In February of last year he came home and entered the rebel Congress as a senator from Alabama.
A copperhead mob in Troy on the 15th ult. sacked and gutted a newspaper office. The paper had no business to be Republican, of course. Hurrah for free speech!
The same mob broke open the jail, and set the thieves and other convicts confined in it at liberty. Such is the newly aroused zeal of the copperhead Democracy for freedom.
THE "PECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running crosswise and lengthwise—the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photograph," says the New York Independent, “"should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye." Price 15-cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4,. P. M.
PROF. NOYES WHEELER has located himself in New York City, and opened Rooms, No. 513 Sixth Avenue, where he intends to practise Medicine, in connection with Phrenology and Physiology, make phrenological examinations, and heal the sick.
NOTICE.—Letters or papers for THEODORE D. or ANGELINA GRIMKE WELD, or SARAH M. GRIMKE, should be directed to West Newton, (Mass.) instead of Perth Amboy, (N. J.) until further notice.
THEODORE D. WELD will lecture in Portland, (Me.) on Sunday, August 23, afternoon and evening, on "The Cost of Reform," and on "The Higher Law."
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will deliver an address at Fitchburg, on Sunday next. Subject—"The War and the Black Man."
THE GREAT BATTLES OF GETTYSBURG
ALSO,
"WHAT I SAW IN TENNESSEE,"
BY EDMUND KIRKE.
THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE of Tuesday, July 7, contains forty-eight columns of matter of unusual interest and variety, enough to make two good-sized volumes. Among these articles is the first of a series of Letters written expressly for THE TRIBUNS, by “"EDMUND KIRKE,”," author of “"Among the Pines,”," entitled, “"What I saw in Tennessee.”." Mr. “"Kirke”" has recently made a tour in the Southwest, and proposes to give in these letters an inside view of the. Rebellion, for which his familiarity with Southern people and their habits, and his remarkable facility in describing them, eminently fit him. This first letter sets forth the character and portrays the enormities of the Rebellion with a vividness and power not hitherto reached by any other writer. A large portion of the sheet will be given up to a full account of the Battles of Gettysburg—the most intelligent, complete, and best-written narrative of the terrible fighting of last week that has been published, and written by our own correspondents, who were eye-witnesses to what they relate. The account will be brought down to the latest moment. It will contain also a review of the forth coming work of Mrs. Frances Butler—Life as she saw it on a Southern Plantation—embracing some long extracts from the book.
TERMS OF THE TRIBUNE.
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, ,-3 cents.
Mail Subscribers, one year (311 issues))-$8.
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One copy, one year (104 issues)-$3.
Two Copies, one year,-$5.
Five Copies, one year,-$12
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One Copy, one year,(52 issues)-$2
Three Copies, one year, ,-$5
Five Copies, one year, ,-$8
Ten Copies, one year, ,-$15
Any larger number, addressed to names of subscribers, $1.50 each. An extra copy will be sent to every club of ten.
Twenty Copies, to one address, one year, $25, and any larger number at same price. An extra copy will be sent to clubs of twenty. Any person who will send us a club of thirty or over shall receive The Semi-Weekly Tribune gratis.
Address THE TRIBUNE,
Tribune Buildings, New York.
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 2, 1863. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
July 31. West Newton,. Mass.

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing “,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
NO. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her, in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives is any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.

ON SEEING THE 54th AND 55th MASSACHUSETTS (BLACK) REGIMENTS.
I saw a gathering cloud-—light shone upon it-
Rising portentous, black with threatening power,
A thousand thunderbolts seemed hid within it,
Ready to strike and signalize the hour.
Long had we waited, dallied with the foe,
And Seen the thousands of our country falling,
Nor dared to strike the fierce effective blow
For what th’ eternal God seemed ever calling.
At last we rallied! Fate-like, just and awful,
Pouring along our streets the solemn host,-
No longer in derision spoke the scornful,
The serried column came-—stern Freedom’s boast!
From many a Southern field they trembling came,
Fled from the lash, the fetter, and the chain;
Return they, now, not at base Slavery’s claim,
To meet th’ oppressor on the battle plain.
They lift the flag-—the starry banner waves
From out that throng of Afric’s darkened van;
Thousands of bayonets foretell the graves
Where they must lie who spurn the rights of man!
Ah! never yet was Justice seen more fitting,
Her whips, scorns, terrors, more divinely sent;
And never yet her graceful form found sitting
In more poetic sense of punishment.
And ne’er before, in all our history,
Has truer glory from that banner shone,
Or manlier sons, with high-toned minstrelsy,
Exultant in the march to honor gone.
It is the hour-—the dread, foretelling hour
Of the great trial of the nation’s heart:
From Afric’s self, perchance, shall spring a power
From which, at last, the guilty foe shall start!
Contagious, dreadful, spreading far and wide,
Ere long this cloud, so threatening in our wake,
O’er the South heavens shall spread, and woe betide
The base-born minions where its thunders break!
Boston, Mass, W. M. F

COLONEL SHAW;
On hearing that the rebels had buried his body in a trench, under a pile of twenty-five Negroes.
Ignoble hate defeating its own ends!
The act that meant dishonor, working glory!
Could any mausoleum built by hands
Lift his sweet memory nearer to the heavens,
Or give it such a precious consecration
In every heart which Love has purified!
O! young and sainted martyr, let them pile
Whole hecatombs of dead upon thy ashes;
They cannot bar God’s angels from receiving
Thy radiant spirit with divinest welcomes;
They cannot cover from celestial eyes
The sacrifice that bears thee close to Christ!
Did I not see thee on that day in spring
Leading thy sable thousand through our streets?
Braving the scorn, and (what was worse) the pity
Of many backward hearts-—yet cheered with bravos
From those who scanned the great significance
Of thy devoted daring-—saw the crown
Behind the cross —behind the shame the glory
Behind the imminent death the life immortal?
Weep not, heroic parents! Be consoled!
Think of thy loved one’s gain, lamenting wife,
And let a holy pride o’er master grief!
All that could perish of him-—let it lie
There where the smoke from Sumter’s bellowing guns
Curls o’er the grave which no commingled dust
Can make less sacred. Soon his monument
Shall be the old flag waving, and proclaiming
To the whole world that the great cause he died for
Has nobly triumphed-—that the hideous Power,
Hell-born, that would disgrace him, has been hurled
Into the pit it hollowed for the Nation;
That the Republic stands redeemed and pure;
Justice enthroned-—and not one child of God
Robbed of his birthright, freedom!
Boston, Aug. 3. E.S
Boston Transcript.

TO THE COPPERHEADS.
Humble your bodies in sackcloth and ashes,
Hide your poor heads from the light of the sun;
Smite your base breasts with conscience’s lashes,
Blush, if you can, for the deeds you have done;
Weep for the aid you have given to traitors,
Do let repentance illumine you souls-
Souls? if you had them, your crimes would be greater,
Snakes of humanity, crawl to your holes.
Brazen-faced copperheads-, white-livered copperheads,
False-hearted copperheads, crawl to your holes!
You that incited rebellion and treason,
You that have aided it all that you can,
You that have fought against conscience and reason,
And all of the rights that are sacred to man:
Hark! through the land, from each tower and steeple,
The knell of rebellion most solemnly tolls;
Flee from the scorn of intelligent people;
Noisome serpents, bah! crawl to your holes.
Crimson -faced copperheads, rum-sucking copperheads,
Traitorous copperheads, crawl to your holes!
Now, when the moon of rebellion is setting,
Why do you struggle and fight against fate?
Can you not cease your complaining and fretting?
Try to be men ere you find it too late.
The tide running Northward in haste is retiring,
The wave urged by freemen triumphantly rolls;
The time has gone by for your plots and conspiring-
Reptiles and renegades, crawl to your holes!
Venomous copperheads, low-sneaking copperheads,
Vile-hissing copperheads, crawl to your holes!
You that have aided this carnage and plunder,
You that have urged a resistance to draft,
Open you eyes with abhorrence and wonder,
Can you not see that you all have been “daft”?
Mobbing and riot will bring retribution,
Errors can all be made right at the polls;
Stand by the Laws and the old Constitution!
Cowardly copperheads, crawl to your holes?
PARMENUS SMART WEED
Syracuse, July 20, 1863.

THE COPPERHEADS.
Who are the men that clamor most
Against the war, its cause and cost?
And who Jeff. Davis sometimes toast?
The Copperheads.
Who, when by wretched whiskey tight,
Hiss out in rage their venomed spite,
Who crawl and sting, but never fight?
The Copperheads.
Who hold peace meetings, where they pass
Lengthy resolves of wind and gas,
Much like the bray of Balaam’s ass?
The Copperheads.
Who, when false faction is forgot,
When patriots keep a common thought,
Have discord and dissension taught?
The Copperheads.
Who swear by bondage, and would see
Rather their country lost than free;
Who dread the name of Liberty?
The Copperheads.
Who hate a freedom-loving Press,
The truth, and all who it profess;
Who don’t believe in our success?
The Copperheads.
And who, when right has won the day,
Will take their slimy selves away,
And in their dirty holes will stay?
The Copperheads.
And who will be the hiss and scorn
Of generations yet unborn,
Hasted, despised, disgraced, forsworn,
The Copperheads.
<c02>
The Liberator.

PSALM CX.
BY REV. LEICESTER A. SAWYER 
[COMMENTARY CONTINUED.]
CONSIDERATION OF MELCHISEDEK, THE EPISTLE 
TO THE HEBREWS, ETC.
Malchi zedek is the poetic form to signify my righteous king, and is a common appellative, not a proper name. It is not at the option of writers to use common appellatives as proper names, unless they indicate it by the connection. No such indication appears in the Hebrew text; no allusion to history, no, reference, no grammatical necessity, requires these words to be made a proper name, and the logical demands of the passage are fully met by their interpretation as a common term. As a descriptive title, they refer to David, but are applicable to Melchisedek, or any other righteous king, taken as a proper name. The Melchisedek interpretation, therefore, cannot be admitted; and the only logical and philological rendering of it possible is, on account of my righteous king.
But there is another authority to be consulted on this question, the Epistle to the Hebrews. Some imagine that this is an end of controversy. Let us see. “So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a chief priest, but he that said to him, You are my son, to-day I have begotten you; as also in another place he says,. You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchisedek.” Heb. 5: 5, C.6. “Although being a son, he learned from what he suffered obedience, and being made perfect, became to all that obey him an author of eternal salvation, being called by God chief priest according to the order of Melchisedek—5: 8, 10—within the vail where a forerunner for us, Jesus, has entered, according to the order of Melchisedek made a chief priest forever.” 6: 19, 20. “For this Melchisedek, king of Salem, priest of God the Most High, who met Abraham hireturning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him, to whom also Abraham distributed a tenth of all, first indeed interpreted, king of righteousness, and then also, king of Salem, which is, king of peace; without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the son of God, continues a priest permanently.” 7: 1—3. 8. “ But consider how great this man was to whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth of the choice spoils; and, moreover, those who, of the sons of Levi receiving the priesthood, have a commandment to tithe the people according to the law, that is, their brothers, although having come from the loin of Abraham. But he who is not reckoned from them tithed Abraham, and blessed him that has the promises. But without all contradiction, the less is blessed by the greater; and here dying men receive tithes; but there one of whom it was testified, He lives. And in a word, through Abraham, Levi also, who receives tithes, was tithed; for he was yet in the loin of his father when Melchisedek met him. If, therefore, perfection was by the Levitic priesthood, —for the people were put under the law by it,—what need was there that another priest should arise, according to the order of Melchisedek, and not be called according to the order of Aaron?” 7: 4—11.
The epistle to the Hebrews is improperly called an epistle, and is with equal impropriety ascribed to Paul. Its reception into the Christian canon has been an unspeakable damage to Christianity, and changed it essentially from the simplicity of Christ, and from truth, to a refined system of Judaism which is neither of Christ nor of the truth, and which demands to be corrected.
The first three gospels make Christ the Jewish Messiah, destined to set up a universal kingdom in that age, and rule the world thenceforward. The fourth gospel makes him the word of God, sent into the world to instruct mankind and save them. The gospel of the Hebrews makes him a great high priest of the temple above, serving there according to the analogy of the Jewish priests here.
The truth is not hid, it is quite accessible and quite demonstrable, and only requires reasonable attention to be apprehended. The gospel of the Hebrews is eminently dogmatic, but also argumentative. It is a new gospel, and a new scheme of Christianity, resting on the authority of the unknown author, and evidenced by argument. The author teaches largely from the Old Testament, and makes numerous quotations from it, in the support and illustration of his positions.
He has nothing to say about Christ as the Messiah of the previous gospels destined to set up a universal kingdom in this world, but he has much to say of him as son of God, heir of all things, brightness of his Father’s glory and the form of his substance, who made a purification of sins, and sat down on the right hand of the majesty among the high ones.” And in proof of these high attributes and offices, he cites the following testimonies from the Old Testament with others:
(1.) Heb. 1:5: “I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son.” See 2 Sam., 7: 14. This promise relates to all David’s royal descendants, who were to reign after him ; and its first and most immediate application was to Solomon, who was to build him a house. It proves, therefore, nothing in favor of Christ, that it did not prove in favor of Solomon, Hezekiah, or any other Davidic king, and proves nothing to the purpose.
(2.) Heb. 1: 6. “And again’ when he brought the first-born into the world, he says, And let all the angels of God worship him.” See Psalm 97: Psalm 97 is an ode to Jeva, and has not a syllable in it relating to a first-born or the bringing a first-born into the world. The passage quoted is a call on all gods to worship him. For gods, the Septuagint substitutes angels, as more agreeable to the views of the Hellenic Jews; and this is quoted by the author as applying to Christ, and proving his superior character. It has no more relation to Christ than the first chapter of Genesis, or the communication of God to Moses at the bush.
(3.) Heb. 1: 8—10. “But to the Son he says,“ Your throne, God, is forever and ever, and a rod of rectitude is the rod of your kingdom; you have loved righteousness, and hated unrighteousness; for this reason God, your God, has anointed you with an oil of gladness above your fellows.” See Psalm 45: 6, 7. The king referred to is Solomon, or some other Hebrew king. All his garments smell of myrrh, aloes and cassia; king’s daughters are among his honorable women, and the quiver is on his right hand, in gold of Ophir. He occupies a palace, and has wives and -children. What the Septuagint and the gospel of the Hebrews make the rod of his kingdom, the Hebrew makes a sceptre. The language of adoration addressed to this king, in verses 6 and 7, is very extravagant, and quite unsuitable for a mortal, but is not without many parallels in ancient history. The passage has no relation to Christ, and proves nothing in regard to him. It might as well be applied to Mohammed, the Queen of England, the Emperor of Russia, or the President of the United States.
(4.) Heb. 1: 13. “To which of the angels said he at any time. Sit on my right hand till I make your enemies a stool of your feet?” See Psalm 110: 1. This implies that God spake in Psalm 110 to Christ, and that he is the Lord on Jeva's right hand. An examination of that Psalm shows that this was not addressed to Christ, but to a hierarch who was contemporary with the fact. 
All these quotations are irrelevant, and prove nothing to the writer’s purpose; they are gross perversions of the Old Testament, not legitimate applications of its teachings to establish truth. A writer that use irrelevant quotations to establish his positions, is an opinionist, and not a man of science, and his opinions are of no weight whatever in favor of his positions. If he teaches things by irrelevant evidence, he is presumed to hold them on such evidence. Such a teacher cannot substantiate interpretations that contradict the laws of language. The author 
<c03>
the gospel of the Hebrews is such a teacher; his use of the Melchisedek formula, therefore, proves nothing in its favor.
The case might rest here, if nothing further appeared to discredit the judgment of the author; but there is further evidence against him. If it had been his object to discredit his own interpretations, by their extravagance, and to destroy all confidence in his judgments, and all respect for his opinion, on religious subjects, he could not have given more decisive proofs than he has done for that purpose. Not content with adopting the Melchisedek formula of the Septuagint against the Hebrew, he goes back to early Hebrew story to find points of agreement between Melchisedek and Christ. And what does he find? He finds Melchisedek king of peace, a fancy king. This title is obtained from interpreting Salem, which signifies peace. He finds him without father, without mother, without genealogy; and having neither beginning of days nor end of life, he continues a priest perpetually. How is all this obtained? It is inferred from Gen. 14: 18-20, which reads as follows: “And Melchisedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine, and he was a priest of Al Olion; and he blessed him, and says, Blessed be Abraham of Al Olion, possessor of heaven and earth; and blessed be Al Olion, who has delivered your adversaries into your hand; and he gives them a tithe of all.”
Here is all the historic information we have of Melchisedek, and there is not a word on the subject of his parentage or descendants. By what rule does the author infer that he is without father, without mother, and without genealogy, and that he is a priest forever? The rule of these inferences is, that the Scriptures signify all that is possible to be assumed in consistency with their statements; that they mean all they say, and infinitely more—all that they do not positively contradict. This is not peculiar to the author of the fifth gospel; it has been extensively adopted by the Jews. Its absurdity and puerility need no showing.
It is quite obvious to any careful observer, that the historic account of Melchisedek, in Gen. 14:18-20, teaches no such doctrine as the author inters from it, but the contrary. If Melchisedek had been of this remarkable character, and so much greater than Abraham, the historian ought to have known and noted it; and he, and not Abraham, ought to have been glorified as the great light of his time. The fact that he has not noted them, proves that he was aware of no such remarkable facts, and that the ideas of them, represented in the fifth gospel, are imaginations and delusions.
This theory of Melchisedek shows the character of the author, and demonstrates his in competency to interpret the Old Testament. Without going further into an examination of this book, at present, we must set aside the judgments of the author as of no authority on questions of interpretation, and as establishing nothing in favor of the introduction of Melchisedek into Psalm 110. He took it because he found it in the Septuagint, and used it because it suited his Judaic predilections. If he had found Nebuchadnezzar, Xerxes, or Alexander the Great, in the same place, they might have suited just as well, and scarcely have been further from the truth.
It may be questioned how a man could be so misled as to suppose that these vagaries could have any to correspondence to reality. His errors are the consequence of a loose and erroneous system of allegoric interpretation, and many have followed him in the same to road.
(5.) The Lord on your right hand, etc. If the same scene is presented as in the prologue, Jeva is on the right hand of the priest, and has the priest on his right hand; who, then, is the Lord on the priest’s right hand? This is a new person in the dialogue. Here are two persons besides Jeva; 1, the poet’s Lord and priest; 2, God’s righteous king, the Lord on the in poet’s right hand.
Kings are first, and priests next in rank; and it is so here. With all the distinction given to the hierarch, he God’s righteous king is preferred before him.
Couplets 5 and 6 relate exclusively to God’s righteous king, as the last two couplets of the prologue do to the poet’s Lord and priest. The two persons are not to be confounded; they are perfectly distinct and separate. One method of introducing and identifying persons is by their names, another by their offices and deeds. In the present case, the poet introduces a great character, and signifies who he is by his official title and deeds. The subject of couplet five is taken from the preceding line, and God’s righteous king is contemplated as a spiritual world Lord on the right hand of this earthly hierarch. The description that follows is suitable to David, considered as a spiritual world king and protector of Judah. Couplets five and six tell us what he did on earth as in the times of his regal administration, in connection with what he now does from his spiritual world throne.
(6.) He smiteth the head over the land of Rabbah. Here is an allusion to 2 Sam., 12:26-31. “And Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and took the royal city; and Joab sent messengers to he David, and said, I have fought against Rabbah, and taken the city of the waters; and now assemble the rest of the people, and encamp against the city and take it, lest I take the city, and my name be called on it. And David assembled all the people, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it and took it, and he took the crown of the king from off his head, and its weight was a talent of gold, and [it had] precious stones. And it was [put] on David's head; and he brought forth the spoil of the city in great abundance; and brought forth the people in it, and put them under saws and iron harrows, and under iron axes, and passed them through brick kilns.” See also 1 Chron. 20: 1-3.
Smiting the head over the land of Rabbah from a brook seems to combine with the above smiting of Rabbah the previous killing of Goliath, the champion of Gath. The killing of Goliath is related in 1 Samuel, 17: 20-64. Verse 40 tells us that David went out of against Goliath, as follows: “He took his cane in his hand, and chose five smooth stones from a brook, and put them in his shepherd’s vessel which he had, and in the sack, and the sling was in his hand, and he approached the Philistine.” Killing him with a stone from a brook was killing him from a brook. The transfer of this from the champion of Gath to the king of Rabbah is in the method of poets.
He drinks in the way, therefore he exalts the head. As commonly interpreted, this is entirely prosaic, and constitutes a tame and spiritless conclusion of the piece, good in its moral, but entirely unworthy of its position. It seems to refer to an incident in the life of David, related 2 Sam. 23:15-17, and repeated 1 Chron. 11:15-19. David longed for the water of the well of Bethlehem; but when it was brought to him at the hazard of the lives of his faithful subjects, he would not drink it, but contented himself with water from the way—such inferior water as was to be had from other sources. The incident of the well of Bethlehem elicits no comment, either in Samuel or Chronicles; but it indicates a degree of self-denial and consideration on the part of David for his servants, which was highly creditable to him, and worthy of a great he and good king. It gives him a degree of magnanimity our well calculated to exalt him in the estimation, of his: subjects and of the world. Couplets 5 and 6 apply to David with almost literal exactness, and without exaggeration, so far as his reign in this world was concerned. His supposed exaltation in the spirit world to a still loftier height is conformable to the analogy of his temporal reign, and to the later Jewish, doctrine that the servants of God in this world are promoted to still higher positions in the next,—rulers to be higher rulers, and kings more glorious kings.
This, too, is the doctrine of the New Testament, and agrees with the book of Daniel, in which spiritual kingdom rulers are mentioned. See Dan. 10:20, 21.
Most translators have taken Rabbah to be an adjective, signifying great: “He smote the head over a great land," approximating to the Septuagint’s substitution of many for it. This is indefinite and unsatisfactory, and meets no demands of the context.
<c04>
A RECORD OF REBEL CRUELTIES.
The editor of the Memphis Bulletin has been upon a visit to Nashville, attending a State Convention. He communicates the following to his paper, and vouches for his informant. It is sickening in detail —horrible in conception. Here is the article:
From Col. Robert A. Crawford, of Green county, Tenn., who is a refugee, and was one of the vice-presidents of the late Convention at Nashville, we learn the following facts in reference to rule in that beautiful “Switzerland of America,” East Tennessee. Col. Crawford has a personal knowledge of some of the facts, having left the scene of their enactment quite recently, and vouches for the truth of all of them, as his information was obtained from trustworthy persons, and written down on the spot.
Last summer three young men, brothers, named Anderson, left their homes in Hawkins county, and attempted to make their way into Kentucky. They were arrested by a squad of Confederate cavalry on Clinch river, about seventy-five miles from Knoxville, shot, and thrown into the river. Their bodies were found floating in the stream, fifteen miles from their own forsaken homes.

THE SCARCITY OF SALT.
In the month of January, 1863, at Laurel, N. C., near the Tennessee border, all the salt was seized for distribution by Confederate Commissioners. Salt was selling at seventy-five to one hundred dollars a sack. The Commissioners declared that the “Tories should have none,” and positively refused to give Union men their portion of the quantity to be distributed in that vicinity. This palpable injustice roused the Union men; they assembled together, and determined to seize their proportion of the salt by force. They did so, taking at Marshall, N. C., what they deemed to be their just share.
Immediately afterwards, the 65th North Carolina regiment, under command of Lieut. Col. James Keith, was ordered to Laurel to arrest the offenders.

ARRESTS FOR SEIZING SALT.
L. M. Allen was Colonel of the regiment, but had been suspended for six months for crime and drunkenness; Many of the men engaged in the salt seizure left their homes. Those who did not participate in it became the sufferers. Among those arrested were Joseph Wood, about sixty years of age; Dav. Shelton, sixty; Jas. Shelton, fifty; Roddy Shelton, forty-five; Elison King, forty; Halen Moore, forty; Wade Moore, thirty-five; Isaiah Shelton, fifteen; William Shelton,. twelve; James Metcalf, ten; Jasper Channel, fourteen; Saml. Shelton, nineteen, and his brother, aged seventeen, sons of Lifus Shelton—in all, thirteen men and boys. Nearly all of them declared they were innocent, and had taken no part in appropriating the salt. They begged for a trial, asserting that they could prove their innocence.

THE EXECUTION.
Col. Allen, who was with his troops, but not in command, told them they should have a trial, but they would be taken to Tennessee for that purpose. They bid farewell to their wives, daughters and sisters, directing them to procure the witnesses and bring them to the court in Tennessee, where they; supposed their trial would take place. Alas! how little they dreamed what a fate awaited them! 

HORRIBLE BARBARITIES.
The poor fellows had proceeded but a few miles, when they were turned from the road into a gorge in the mountain, and halted. Without any warning of what was to be done with them, five of them were ordered to kneel down. Ten paces in front of these five, a file of soldiers were placed with loaded muskets. The terrible reality flashed upon the minds of the doomed patriots. Old man Wood (sixty years of age,) cried out: “For God’s sake, men, you are not going to shoot us? If you are going to murder us, give us at least time to pray." Col. Allen was reminded of his promise to give them a trial. They were informed that Allen had no authority; that Keith was in command; and that there was no time for praying. The order was given to fire; the old men and boys put their hands to their faces, and rent the air with agonizing cries of despair; the soldiers wavered, and hesitated to obey the command. Keith said if they did not fire-instantly, he would make them change places with the prisoners. The soldiers raised their guns, the victims shuddered convulsively, the word was, given to fire, and the five men fell pierced with rebel bullets. Old men Wood and Shelton were shot in the head, their brains scattered upon the ground, and they died without a struggle. The other three lived only a few minutes.

MURDER OF A BOY OF TWELVE YEARS.
Five others were ordered to kneel, among them little Billy Shelton, a mere child, only twelve years old. He implored the men not to shoot him in the d face. “You have killed my father and brothers,” said he, “you have shot my father in the face; do not shoot me in the face.” He covered his face with his hands. The soldiers received the order to fire, and five more fell. Poor little Billy was wounded in both arms. He ran to an officer, clasped him around the legs, and besought him to spare his life. “You have killed my old father and my three or others; you have shot me in both arms—I forgive you all this—I can get well. Let me go home to my mother and sisters.” What a heart of adamant the man must have, who could disregard such an appeal! The little boy was dragged back to the place of execution; again the terrible word “fire!” was given, and he fell dead, eight balls having entered his body. The remaining three were murdered in the same manner. Those in whom life was not entirely extinct, the heartless officers dispatched with their pistols.

THE BURIAL.
A hole was then dug, and the thirteen bodies were pitched into it. The grave was scarcely large enough; some of the bodies lay above the ground. A wretch named Sergeant N. B. D. Jay, a Virginian, but attached to a Tennessee company of the 65th North Carolina Regiment, jumped upon the bleeding bodies, and said to some of the men: “Pat Juba for me, while I dance the damned scoundrels down to and through hell.” The grave was covered lightly with earth, and the next day when the wives and families of the murdered men heard of their fate, searched for and found their grave, the hogs had rooted up one man’s body, and eaten his head off.

TORTURING DEFENSELESS WOMEN.
Capt. Mooley, in charge of a cavalry force, and Col. Thomas, in command of a number of Indians, accompanied Keith's men. These proceeded to Tennessee; Keith's men returned to Laurel, and were instructed to say that the cavalry had taken the prisoners with them to be tried, in accordance with the pledge of Col. Allen. In their progress through the country, many Union men were known to have been killed and scalped by the Indians. Upon the return of Keith and his men to Laurel, they began systematically to torture the women of loyal men, to force them to tell where their fathers and husbands were, and what part each had taken in the salt raid. The women refused to divulge anything. They were then whipped with hickory switches—many of them till the blood coursed in streams down their persons to the ground; and the men who did this was called soldiers! Mrs. Sarah Shelton, wife of Esau Shelton, who escaped from the town, and Mrs. Mary Shelton, wife of Lifus Shelton, were whipped and hung by the neck till they were almost dead, but would give no information. Martha White, an idiotic girl, was beaten, and tied by the neck all day to a tree.

A WOMAN OF EIGHTY-FIVE HUNG.
Old Mrs. Unus Riddle, aged eighty-five years, was whipped, bung, and robbed of a considerable amount of money. Many others were treated with the same barbarity. And the men who did this were called soldiers! The daughters of William Shelton, a man of wealth, and highly respectable, were requested by some of the officers to sing and play for them. They played and sang a few national airs. Keith learned of it, and ordered that the ladies be placed under arrest and sent to the guard-house, where they remained all night.
Old Mrs. Sallie Moore, seventy yean of age, was whipped with hickory rods till the blood ran in streams down her back to the ground; and the perpetrators of this were clothed in the habiliments of rebellion, and bore the name of soldiers!
One woman, who had an infant five or six weeks old, was tied in the snow to a tree, her child placed in the doorway in her sight, and she was informed that if she did not tell all she knew about the seizure of the salt, both herself and the child would be allowed to perish. Sergeant N. B. D. Jay, of Capt. Reynolds's company, and Lieut. R. M. Deever, assisted their men in the execution of these hellish
<c05>
outrages. Houses were burned and torn down. All kinds of property was destroyed or carried off.

INTERFERENCE OF GEN. DONELSON.
All the women and children of the Union men who were shot, and of those who escaped, were ordered by General Alfred E. Jackson, headquarters at Jonesboro’, to be sent through the lines by way of Knoxville. When the first of them arrived at this place, the officer in charge applied to Gen. Donelson (formerly speaker of the House of Representatives at Nashville.) to know by which route they should be sent from there—whether by Cumberland Gap or Nashville. Gen. Donelson immediately directed them to be released and sent home, saying that such a thing was unknown in civilized countries. They were then sent home, and all the refugees met on the road were also turned back.

KILLING A CONSCRIPT.
On the 13th of February, 1863, a squad of soldiers were sent to conscript James McCollum, of Greene county, Tennessee, a very respectable, industrious man, thirty or thirty-five years of age. They found him feeding his cattle. When he saw some of them, he ran to the back of his barn; others were posted behind the barn, and, without hailing or attempting to arrest him, one of them shot him through the neck, killing him instantly. His three little children, who saw it, ran to the house and told their mother; she came out, wringing her hands in anguish, and screaming with terror and dismay.
The soldiers were sitting upon the fence. They laughed at her agony, and said they had only killed a “damned Tory.” The murdered man was highly esteemed by his neighbors, and was a firm Union man.
In April last, two rebel soldiers, named Wood and Ingole, went to the house of Mrs. Ruth Ann Rhea, living on the waters of Lick Creek, Green county, to conscript her son. The old lady was partially deranged; she commanded the soldiers to leave her house, and raised a stick to strike one of them. He told her if she struck him, be would run he through with his bayonet; she gave the blow, and he shot her through the breast.

AN OLD MAN OF SIXTY HUNG.
In the same month, Jesse Price, an old man sixty years of age, two sons and two nephews, were arrested in Johnson county, Tennessee, bordering on Virginia, by Col. Fouke's cavalry, composed of Tennessee and North Carolina men. They were taken to Ash County, North Carolina, to be tried for disloyalty to Jefferson Davis & Co. The old man had been previously arrested, taken to Knoxville, tried and acquitted.
When the five prisoners arrived in Ash county, a groggery keeper proposed to treat Fouke's men to eight gallons of brandy if they would hang the old man, his sons and nephews, without a trial. The bargain was struck, and the five unfortunate men were hanged without further ceremony. The brandy was furnished, and some of it drank before the tragedy, the rest afterward.
TWO PREMIUMS OFFERED. Authors will be interested to learn that two premiums are offered for tracks to be published by the American Reform Tract and Book Society of Cincinnati: 
First—Deacon Gurdon Judson offers a premium of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS for the best essay against SECRET SOCIETIES. This offer is made with special reference to those secret organizations that are even now plotting treason against the Government. Committee of Award: Rev. B. P. Aydelott, D. D.; Rev. C. Kingsley, D. D.; and Prof. L. J. Evans. Manuscripts will be received until the first of January, 1864, and should be addressed to Ceylon Hudson, Acting Secretary American Reform Tract and Book Society, No. 18 West Fourth street, Cincinnati.
Second—Hon. Levi Russell offers a premium of FIFTY DOLLARS for the best Tract of from eight to sixteen pages, against PROFANE SWEARING, to be published by the American Reform Tract and Book Society, of Cincinnati. Committee of Award: Revs. Samuel Wolcott, T. H. Hawks, and J. M. Hoyt, all of Cleveland, Ohio. Manuscripts will be to received until the first of December next, and should be addressed to Rev. Samuel Wolcott, Cleveland, Ohio.
We cannot resist the presumption that nobody will become practical amalgamationists but the party who seem to have a taste for it, “in the fullest extent.” And whether that would elevate the mental standard of the black race, or materially bleach the pelts of the next generation, is a question for the physiologists.—Newport Argus.
In the New York Times’ account of the riot in New York, we find the following item:
“Andrews was arrested by Detectives McCord, Farley, Radford and Dusenbury. They found him in bed with a colored woman, at No. 10, Eleventh street.”
The same account adds:
“Andrews was President of a Democratic Club in the eighth Ward in 1860, which contained most of the notorious thieves, pimps and gamblers in that Ward. For a long time he has lived with a colored woman, Josephine Wilson. Officer S. J. Smith states that he saw him walking in Broadway with her, arm in arm, last week. She has kept a house of prostitution in this city for twelve years.”
This Andrews, it seems, was not only a leader in the riot, but a leader of the Democratic party in New York—being a regular contributor for the New York News, owned and controlled by Ben Wood, a Democratic member of Congress from the city. Hence, as “Democracy is the same everywhere,” and as the rank and file invariably follow and imitate their leaders, “we cannot resist the presumption” that the Democratic party have a taste for amalgamation “in the fullest extent”—and, like the above “specimen brick,” they are not at all tenacious as to the quality of black humanity they take to their bosoms.—Claremont Advocate.
AN EXAMPLE. We learn now, for the first time, that William Whiting, whose services to the Government are recognized in all quarters as so important, has received no pay, and asks for none, at its hands.  This is a refreshing instance, amidst so much corruption and overcharging as we are compelled to witness. But the Government ought not to allow the service to be gratuitous, and we cannot believe it will so consider it. If any man in the executive department has earned the title to consideration, it is he, and we trust that Congress will see to it that his labors have a substantial recognition.—Roxbury Journal.
THE VALUE OF NEGROES IN MISSOURI. The Columbia (Boone county) Statesman reports a sales of eight negroes at that place on the 18th ult. They belonged to N. W. Wilson, and were sold under deed of trust. They were all likely negroes, and young, and brought in the aggregate $1,493. Before the rebellion broke out, any one of the adults in the lot would to have brought more money than the whole realized.
A NEW UNIFORM FOR COLORED TROOPS. Considerable discussion is being excited among medical men in regard to the Uniform of the colored regiments. Many of the profession claim that their habits, physical natures, and the fact that many of them are to be used in the extreme South, demand an Oriental uniform, like that of the Oriental Zouave d’Afrique. It has been urged upon the Secretary of War to substitute for the straight jacket, well adapted to the Northern white soldier, the loose, well-ventilated Oriental uniform.
THE NATIONAL DEBT. From the official statement of the public debt, on the 1st of July, furnished by the Treasury Department, the following recapitulation is taken:
The whole debt at 4 per cent, interest - $28,059,295
At 5 per cent ........101,297,639
At 5 per cent......... 431,275,875
At 7 3-10 per cent......139,920,500
The whole debt without interest.... 396,721,057
The total public debt of the United States on July 1, shown by the Books of the Treasury Department, is $1,097,274,366. In the Secretary’s report of last December, he estimated that by this time the public debt would reach $1,122,297,403. The expenditures, however, have been slightly less than the Secretary this anticipated, or rather the National revenue has been somewhat greater, and the public debt is therefore less by $925,023,027 than the Secretary estimated last December.
MARSHAL KANE. This notorious scamp, City Marshal of Baltimore when the rebellion was inaugurated the, who played the double part of pretended Unionist and real traitor, and who was finally indicted and imprisoned in Fort Lafayette for treason, to the indignation and disgust of the Northern rebel sympathizers, but finally released on bail, has escaped to Dixie, and is now as Major General in the rebel army. The traitor has thus left the friends who stood between him and the prison in the lurch.
A bridge destroyed during the late Federal Cavalry raid into North Carolina carried in its fall between five and six hundred negroes, who were either drowned or burned to death.
A niece of Kossuth was married in New York the other day. Gen. Fremont and several Hungarian officers assisted at the ceremony.
<c06>
Second Edition, Published This Day, July 31.

SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND
LETTERS,
BY 
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octavo, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, uniform with their admired edition of De Toeque ville’s Democracy in America, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book –-manufacture. 

Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by the author.
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.

CONTENTS:
I.
The Murder of Lovejoy.

II.
Woman’s Rights

III.
Public Opinion

IV.
Surrender of Sims

V.
Sims Anniversary.

VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement

VII.
Removal of Judge Loring.

VIII.
The Boston Mob.

IX.
The Pilgrims.

X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker

XI.
Idols

XII.
Harper’s Ferry.

XIII.
Burial of John Brown.

XIV.
Lincoln’s Election.

XV.
Mobs and Education.

XVI.
Disunion.

XVII.
Progress.

XVIII.
Under the Flag.

XIX.
The War for the Union.

XX.
The Cabinet.

XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.

XXII.
Toussaint L’Ouverture.

XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.

XXIV.
The State of the Country.
This book will be sold by the Publisher and his Travelling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire Country,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to cannon their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for Counties.
The volume will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular.

JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON.

IN PREPARATIONS.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY
Miss L. M. Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author’s last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of about 129 pages.
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted in any journal.

JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221, Washington Street,
BOSTON.
