THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents- one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 22 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1595.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE EXTRAVAGANCES OF ANTI-SLAVERY MEN.
It is evident that the members of the New England Anti-Slavery Society regard themselves as the only men in America fit to represent the cause of freedom. They perch themselves on the highest branches of the tree of liberty, and pelt with stones and brick-bats all others who attempt to climb the same tree in a different way by which they got up.
These men appear to regard the federal union and the Christian church as the two great obstacles to the cause of emancipation. No man, not even Phillips himself, ever delivered a more eloquent and effective speech against slavery than did Dr. Cheever, on Tuesday evening, in this city; but because the Dr. will not become a disunionist, and an apostate to the religion in which he believes, they cannot regard him as a clear-sighted and efficient friend of the slave. Having thus disposed of Dr. Cheever, the same parties, through the person of ‘Joseph A. Howland, of Woreester, proceed to denounce the Republican party as unworthy the support or countenance of honest men. Who Mr. Howland is, we have not the pleasure of knowing. He may be a very wise man, a very conscientious man, but we regard his resolutions as the crude embodiment of the thoughts of a very bigoted, very foolish, and very weak man. Like an old Irish woman, he cannot make an argument, but he can scold and sell fish.
We gather from the reports of this Society (!) that it is losing ground, that its members are becoming less year by year, but this fact appears only to lead those who remain into further extravagances, and the repetition, with additions, of the follies which they have advanced from year to year, until the dry rot is honeycombing the entire organization, and which, in a few years, will entirely decompose the whole mass. It is melancholy to see such a brilliant orator and excellent citizen as Wendell Phillips frittering away his great gifts upon impracticable schemes. His anti-slavery does not hurt him-that it is which redeems the foolishness of his extravagance in his war against the church and the Union of the States. After a practical experience of a quarter of a century, he ought to have found out that the opinions he has yearly expressed have not done any thing to advance the anti-slavery cause. On the contrary, we believe that they have done much to retard the progress of anti-slavery sentiment. It is as much as anti-slavery men, can do to make headway against the power of the slaveholding interest; but when a class of men, comparatively small in numbers and weak in pecuniary resources, undertake at one and the same time a sort of triple contract-to abolish slavery, dissolve the Union, and destroy the church-we may have respect for their courage, but we cannot highly estimate their common sense or their knowledge of mankind.
One can hardly tell from reading the resolutions and speeches of these gentlemen, whether they hate the church, slavery, or the Constitution the most fervently. That they are good haters, no one can doubt, and yet we have high authority for affirming that love and not hate is the best armor for a moral and religious reformer to wear. No man was ever changed from bad to good by scolding and hard words.
Mr. Phillips, Mr. Foster, Mr. Burleigh, and other leading men of the society, denounce every body and every thing that does not square with their views. They profess to believe that every man who does not subscribe to their Platform, and go in for the dissolution of the Union and the downfall of the church, is false to humanity and the cause of freedom. This is mere lunacy. It is not entitled to serious regard. But what do these gentlemen propose to do after the Union is dissolved, and the church destroyed? How are they to effect the abolition of slavery in the Southern States, when those States have become a foreign nation? They would have neither the right nor the power to interfere with either its domestic or foreign politics.
As an independent nation, it could open the African slave trade, seize Cuba. fillibuster, and take possession of the entire Gulf coast, and carve out of it one of the most powerful slave empires the world  has ever seen; and yet we would have no more right to interfere with its policy than we have with the plans of England or Russia. The dissolving of the Union would add ten fold to the power of Slavery on this continent; and that any man professing to be an anti-slavery man should be laboring to destroy the Union now at this age of our Republic, when the free States are becoming the repressive power, when they are about to get possession of the government, and change its policy from that of an aggressive and dictatorial power to extend and support slavery, to one which will use its constitutional prerogatives to encourage the spread of free institutions upon the continent, and to discourage everywhere the barbarous idea that man can hold property in his fellow man, is past our knowledge of either the laws of humanity, morals, or politics. Boston Atlas and Bee.
The crazy fanatics who are laboring to secure the abolition of slavery by abusing the Church, the State, and every thing and every body who do not agree with them, have been holding their annual meeting in this city for two days past, and will continue their sessions to-day. We have given a report of their doings, though we are not sure that we do not owe an apology to our readers for occupying so much space with the ravings of these fanatics, especially as the proceedings have consisted mainly of stereotyped speeches from stereotyped speakers. The sameness was agreeably diversified yesterday, however, by a threat of Stephen S. Foster to secede from the Anti-Slavery Society, which does not progress sufficiently rapidly to keep pace with his headlong speed. Mr. Foster threatens to establish a new political party. The political managers of the abolition party should hasten to heal this breach, or their party, when next called into service, will look like Flagstaffs ragged regiment.-Boston Journal.
The Charleston Mercury says it is ‘a piece of downright audacity to say the Black Republican’ party looks to the overthrow of this Union.' It adds:
'Disunion would be fatal in every point of view to Black Republicanism. They know it well, and would seek to prevent it, if they had the power and could succeed, even at the point of the sword. It is the strongest Union party in the country, not only from policy and the dictate of self-preservation, but by the principles of consolidation which they entertain.'
ANOTHER IMPORTATION OF AFRICANS.-The following advertisement appears in the Richmond (Texas) Reporter of the 14th inst.:-
For Sale-Four hundred likely African negroes, lately landed upon the coast of Texas. Said negroes will be sold upon the most reasonable terms. One-third down, the remainder in one and two years, with eight per cent. interest.
For further information, inquire of C. K. C., Houston, or L. R. G., Galveston.
<c02>
The Liberator.
NEW ENGLAND
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention of 1859 assembled on Wednesday morning, May 25th, in Mercantile Hall, Summer st. Francis Jackson, Esq., President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, called the meeting to order.
On motion, the following persons were chosen a committee to nominate a suitable organization for the Convention:
E. D. Draper, Hopedale; Elias Richards, Weymouth; Geo. W. Stacy, Milford; Jacob Leonard, East Bridgewater; Samuel May, Jr., Boston; Moses Wilmarth, Attleboro'; Frances H. Drake, Leominster.
Daniel S. Whitney recited some original verses on slavery.
The Committee on nominations reported the following list of officers, who were unanimously elected:
For President-JOHN T. SARGENT, of Boston. 
Vice Presidents-Francis Jackson, Boston; Edmund Quincy, Dedham; John Bailey, Lynn; Effingham L. Capron, Worcester; Ellis Allen, Medfield: Joshua Perry, Hanson; Andrew T. Foss, Manchester, N. H.; Leonard Chase, Milford, do.; James B. Whitcomb, Brooklyn, Ct.; Alphonso R. Janes, Providence, R. I.; Mahlon B. Linton, Bucks Co., Penn.
Secretaries-SAMUEL  MAY, Jr., CHAS. K. WHIPPLE, Jos. A. HOWLAND.
Finance Committee-Eben. D. Draper, Sallie Holley, Frances H. Drake, Sarah E. Wall, Reuben H. Ober, Caroline F. Putnam, Elbridge Sprague.
Business Committee-Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Boston; Wendell Phillips, do.; Charles C. Burleigh, Plainfield, Conn.; Maria W. Chapman, Weymouth; Eliza Lee Follen, Brookline; Lydia Maria Child, Wayland; Abby Kelley Foster, Worcester; Parker Pillsbury, Concord, N. H. Charles L. Remond, Salem; Stephen S. Foster, Worcester; Andrew T. Foss, Manchester, N. H.
Mr. SARGENT, on taking the chair, said that he did so in conformity with his desire that all gentlemen of his profession should put themselves inside of this movement, and not stand outside of it. He did not admire the invidious position taken by those who announced themselves as Christian anti-slavery men. He was satisfied with such anti-slavery as that of Mr. Garrison, such orthodoxy as that of Wendell Phillips, and such Christianity as that of Theodore Parker. (Applause.)
He closed by announcing Mr. Remond as the first speaker.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND said he hoped there would be little said in this meeting of slavery in general, but rather of slaveholders in particular. He differed from Mr. Garrison and other friends of the cause in regard to the satisfaction which should be felt relative to the position of Massachusetts towards anti-slavery and towards slavery. As a colored man, he had nothing but detestation and execrations for the spirit prevailing, even now, in Massachusetts and throughout the North, against the colored man. The position of influence and popularity held by Dr. Nehemiah Adams in the city of Boston shows that the slave can have no hope from the religion of this city; and the position held by James Buchanan in the country at large shows that the slave can expect neither favor nor justice from the government.
WENDELL PHILLIPS offered the following Resolution:
Resolved, That cordially as we welcome, and profoundly as we appreciate the eloquent and hearty protest Dr. Cheever is making against our great national sin-though feeling as we do that no lips are more nearly inspired than his, in rebuking the sin of slaveholding, we still deem his position as connected with the American Church as disastrous-tending to neutralize every word he utters-that we cannot regard him as a clear-sighted and efficient friend of the slave; and we take this occasion to ex­press our hope, that no dollar of foreign or domestic aid will be given him until he cuts loose from all connection with a Church which is a brotherhood of thieves, and the bulwark of the slave system.
Mr. Phillips spoke at some length in support of this resolution, adducing arguments to show that the Church had lost its only favorable opportunity to relieve what humanity required of it, and that now adhesion to it was traitorous, and inimical to anti-slavery principles. The man, he said, who had been truly impressed with the divinity and goodness and love of God, will just as surely respond to the cause of temperance and humanity and justice and anti-slavery, as the infant child in its mother's lap will recognize and respond to the smile which it sees upon her face.
[We hope that a more extended report of Mr. Phillips’s remarks on this important resolution will appear hereafter.]
Mr. GARRISON, explaining that his voice would not allow him to make a speech, introduced to the audience one who had just made the inquiry of him whether there was opportunity and permission on this platform to state the other side.
The President said that was the very object and purpose of the Convention.
Mr. HUTCHINS, of Danielsonville, Conn., said-History tells us that Alexander was passing by Diogenes in his tub, and that the cynic philosopher being asked if he had any request to make of the king, and answering that he only wished him to get out of his sunshine, the conqueror of the world said- ‘If I were not Alexander, I would be Diogenes.'
I would say, if I were not a friend of the Constitution and the religion of my country, I would be a Garrisonian abolitionist. The greatest fault I find with you is, that you tell such an everlasting quantity of everlasting truth. But I cannot quite go with you. I wish more particularly to speak of Dr. Cheever, and his present position to the Anti-Slavery question. 
Is it true that Dr. Cheever will soon approximate to the position of this platform, of not believing in the religion of this country? I cannot believe it.
<c03>
If I believed the religion of this country was so vile, I would take a bee-line for the wilderness; I would turn hermit-I would turn misanthrope. But I do not believe it; and I see at present the best prospect of usefulness in praying with the Orthodox Church, and voting with the Republican party;- at the same time, I must confess that there is far too much in both which warrants the severe denunciations of your Convention.’
Jos. A. HOWLAND said-
Mr. Hutchins objects that our view of the Constitution is wrong; that we hold it to be pro-slavery, while he holds it to be anti-slavery. Now, where does Mr. Hutchins act, and where is his demonstration of his view of the Constitution? Why, he acts with a pro-slavery party, a party who believes the Constitution to be pro-slavery, and who avow their determination to execute it as such, whenever and wherever they get possession of the power so to do. And now he comes to us, and asks us to join with him in the support of the same party, in order that all abolitionists may work harmoniously together. 
Mr. President, we cannot do it! We must, in fidelity to the slave, withdraw our support from all pro-slavery governments and parties, and we call on our friend to join with us in seeking the overthrow of the government and the parties who hold the slave in his chains. And while our friend stands as he does, we charge upon him greater guilt than that of those who, believing in a pro-slavery Constitution, execute it in accordance with their belief, while our friend does the same wickedness in violation of his avowed belief. And so, too, our friend professes to be a friend of the slave, while he continues in membership with and support of the American Church, which is the bulwark of American slavery. He asks us to join him. We beg to be excused. We do not like their course or their company.
He says, that if he believed with us, he must take a bee-line for the wilderness, in order to be clear of complicity with the Church and government. We do not accept that view. We hold the right and duty to stay here, as honest men, trying to make the rest true to humanity; but if our friend cannot stay as an honest man, he had better flee to the wilderness than to retain his wicked complicity. We do not need or choose to go.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER said-My friend Mr. Phillips, in the resolution he just now read, has given the major key to this Convention. I like it much. I wish to give the minor key in the following resolutions;
Resolved, That any political party which, like the Republican party, avows the purpose to tolerate slavery wherever it exists under State jurisdiction, is essentially and radically pro-slavery, and, as such, deserves and will receive the heart-felt execrations of every true and intelligent lover of liberty.
Resolved, That we have neither respect for the judgment nor confidence in the integrity of those professed abolitionists who, at this late day, continue to give their countenance and support to such a party, knowing, as every intelligent man must, that to support a party which sustains slavery is to make himself a participant in its crimes.
The merchant, on New Year's day, takes an account of his stock, and balances his books. This is our New Year's day, and it is our business now to as certain whether we have been advancing or retrograding.
Mr. Foster spoke at length, and with great energy, in regard to anti-slavery principles, methods and prospects. He admitted the general diffusion and spread of anti-slavery sentiment in the community, but argued that the number was not increasing, but, on the other hand, diminishing, of men who refused to have no connection or complicity with slavery in any wise, either in Church or in State. He thought the whole philosophy of the anti-slavery movement was wrong, and proceeded to expound what he deemed a truer and better philosophy. 
Mr. PHILLIPS replied:
I am glad that Mr. Foster has made this speech, with a large part of which I agree. With one sentiment of his, however, I differ, and that is where he speaks of these differences of opinion as quarrelling. I do not so regard it. Differ we must, and it is the life of our cause that this perfect freedom of thought should exist. You may as well expect our faces all to look alike, as our minds and our speech precisely to agree. Charles V. occupied himself, in the monastery to which he retired after his abdication, in trying to make fifty clocks keep uniform time. He failed, of course; and this failure set him to thinking how much more impossible the task would be to establish uniformity among the thoughts and actions of men.
These differences of opinion show that we are alive. They will always continue. They are neither to be feared nor deprecated. Mr. Foster says that no new abolitionists are made. How does he know it? He cannot know this. No man can know it. Mr. Abbott Lawrence, some years since, when he was a candidate for Congress from this city, and on the high road to the United States Senate, was waited on by Francis Jackson and others of the anti-slavery men of this city, with a request to present the anti-slavery petitions. So little progress had anti-slavery then made, that Mr. Lawrence could afford to slight the men and their request.
To-day, the Senator of Massachusetts sits among you in this audience. Why does he come here? and what does his presence indicate, but the mighty onward strides which this cause has taken?
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER rose to explain that Mr. Phillips was not correctly representing Mr. Foster's argument, who had not by any means said that no anti-slavery progress had been made, but that converts to our cause were not now made, as in former years.
Mr. PHILLIPS proceeded: I had not forgotten the Positions of Mr. Foster, and am considering them, in Turn. Now I must say that our friend Stephen S. Foster is too orthodox for me. He believes not only in instantaneous conversion, but in a man being 21 years old as soon as he is born. I believe in a different process-first the blade, then the ear, then the full corn in the ear.
<c04>
We did not get the Liberty bill passed this year; but it is no small indication of the progress of our cause, that, with such opposition as is encountered, with such treachery and desertion of those who should have been its friends, it was defeated in the House of Representatives by a majority of three votes only. 
If there has been this great change in the anti-slavery sentiment of the country, is it not proof of a growth, in the general mind and conscience of the nation, which not only should keep us from anything like despair, but animate us with the highest encouragement for the future? It has been charged against Dr. Cheever and Henry Ward Beecher that they will not stand upon our platform, nor unite with us in any anti-slavery effort whatever. But it was a noticeable thing, in our late meetings in New York, that there came upon our platform there, to express their respect and hearty sympathy for our movement, two young men, one a near friend of Henry Ward Beecher, a son of his pulpit, the other, a right hand supporter and friend of the Pastor of the Church of the Puritans, Dr. Cheever. I refer to Mr. THEODORE TILTON, now of the New York Independent, and Mr. EDWARD GILBERT.
We cannot expect to make converts to our ideas immediately. With the tremendous weight of influence brought to bear against them, on every hand, it is impossible that we should have it. But, on all sides, we see evidence that there is a marked change in public opinion on slavery.
Why do I except to Henry Ward Beecher? Because he stands in his pulpit, afraid or unwilling to apply to the sin of slavery the same measure that he applies to other sins.
Mr. GARRISON said, I do not rise to reply to my friend Foster, but only to say that I totally dissent from the opinion he has expressed in regard to the retrogression of our cause. All the signs of the times indicate that ‘now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer.' Our cause is now forced upon public attention in every department of business, politics, literature and religion; now the slave is seen by everybody, and cannot be put down. Banquo's ghost sits in the Tract Society, sits in the Bible Society, sits in the Sunday School Union, sits in the Missionary Board, sits in the Representatives hall and in the Senate chamber. Encouragement, not discouragement, is seen on every hand, and all the aspects of society show a movement of advance towards the position we hold.
Remember that there must be degrees of light, degrees of progress, degrees of position. We ourselves advanced by steps, and we cannot expect others to go otherwise. However far short of our ground Dr. Cheever or Henry Ward Beecher may stand, if they should go to the South, we know very well that they would be regarded and treated as enemies by the slaveholders, and their lives imperilled. 
Mr. May gave notices of succeeding sessions,-and the Convention adjourned to 2 1-2 o'clock, P. M.
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON.
The meeting was called to order by the President, and was opened by singing a hymn, commencing 
‘Come from your farms, ye yeomen brave.'
The Nominating Committee made a further report, which was accepted and adopted.
Mr. Remond and Mr. Foster made some remarks upon the discussions of the forenoon, and in explanation thereof. 
A. T. Foss said that he had been very much impressed with seeing a colored man collecting money in the audience to buy the body and soul of his own son, and he inquired of himself, ‘In what age of the world do I live? and what is the religion of this a?
A religion that allows men to be bought and sold, to be articles of property, cannot be the Christian religion, and is not a religion that I love, or wish to fraternize with, even if it merely looks on passively to see this wickedness done.
Something has been said of Dr. Cheever and Mr. Beecher. Well, where do they stand? They talk well upon this question, but in act or position they are with the American Church, sustaining a religion that deals in the bodies and souls of men-a religion whose priests tell us falsely, every Sunday, that this is a land where every man sits under his own vine and fig-tree, while they know that four millions of people in this land are not allowed to have vines and fig-trees. And these men who sustain such a false and wicked religion, and are in a position of antagonism to the cause and interests of the slave, whatever their professions and claims, the more they appear to be anti-slavery, while in this false position, the more dangerous is their influence, and the greater the obstacle they present to the onward progress of the cause of the slave.
And here I agree heartily and fully with our friend Foster; but in the position that he took, that we are losing ground, I do not agree with him at all. I do not believe it. He says that we are losing in numbers. I do not believe that either. Many joined us ostensibly in the outset, who, appearing to receive the word gladly, showed in the end that the seed had fallen on stony ground, or by the way side, or among thorns, and so had been apparently lost, but not really, for they were never fully with us-they were but the chaff which a good agriculturist always blows out from the wheat, and has a larger pile of chaff than of wheat; but it is no loss, but a gain, to be rid of it. We need sifting, and I am glad that we get it. When we started, we had of necessity a large amount of apparent grain, but now we are sifted, and have blown off a great deal of chaff, and have but a small pile of wheat. We ought to be glad of it, and not to repine, for what we have is wheat, sound and plump. And we have never lost or shall lose any kernels of that, but shall always gain.
S. MITCHELL, of Maine, offered a resolution denouncing all sects, parties, constitutions and governments on the face of the earth, and was proceeding to make a speech in favor of the same, when be was called to order, and suspended his remarks.
Rev. R. S. HASSALL, of Haverhill, said he liked the criticism of the Anti-Slavery platform, though at times he thought it too severe and quite unjust, and he did not like to have such men as Cheever and Beecher classed with the slaveholders. They had
<c05>
their peculiar theology, and they were sincere in holding to it, however mistaken they might be in it. And we are not to expect them to lay aside at once their views on these to them essential points, in order to labor with us, whom they esteem as infidels. If they will work for the slave at all, let them work in their own way, and let us not criticise them uncharitably. We want to convert men, and to do it thoroughly and completely; but it is a progressive work. Let us labor faithfully, and take what courage we can from the hopeful appearance of the cause, and the gain that shows itself in the position of these men.
PARKER PILLSBURY said he mainly agreed with S. S. Foster in his criticisms, and did not think with Mr. Hassall that our criticisms are too harsh or uncharitable. He thought Dr. Cheever open to all that had been said of him. He (Dr. C.) denounced the sin of slavery, and the Church that sustained it, blistering his tongue with the bitterness of his maledictions; but still he denounced and cursed our policy, while he fraternized with the men who, by his own showing, were the slaves' worst enemies. Dr. Nehemiah Adams never did the Anti-Slavery cause any harm; he cannot do it any; he may do it good; he is just in the position where the wrath of man shall praise God. But Dr. Cheever can and does do the cause much harm, and is in the most harmful position of any man with whom we must cope; and yet our Standard commends Dr. Cheever as a sound abolitionist, worthy the confidence and support of the friends of the slave. I do not agree with Mr. Foster in his belief that we are not progressing, and as to the number of converts or accessions, Mr. Foss has disposed of that matter satisfactorily-and I need not enter upon that point.
We are asked to be friendly to the Republican party, and yet what is that but the white man's party? When have they extended the right of suffrage to the colored man? On the other hand, they have, in many States where they had a preponderance, by deliberate action denied the right of suffrage to the colored man, and enacted fully the Dred Scott decision.
Mr. Pillsbury then went farther into criticism of the position of the Republican party and some of its most prominent advocates and friends.
Rev. Mr. AMES, of Minnesota, made an amusing speech, saying that we ought to love the black man, and the white man too, but especially the green man, who wanted to be right, but didn't know how. There ought to be charity towards such, and not too much severe and uncharitable criticism towards those who did not stand on this platform.
C. C. BURLEIGH spoke of the cheering signs of the cause in all its various aspects, and, in reply to the position’ of Mr. Foster that we were losing ground, and also in reply to some of Mr. Foster's and Mr. Pillsbury's, as he thought, too severe criticism of the Republican party, saying that he did not believe that the success of that party was the success of the Anti-Slavery cause, but he believed its triumph would promote the final triumph of freedom. 
After a brief discussion, whether the question should be taken, or not, at this time, upon the resolutions now before the Convention, without coming to any decision, the Convention adjourned to meet at half-past 7 o'clock, in MUSIC HALL. 
EVENING SESSION.
The evening session of the Convention was held at the Music Hall. One of the most magnificent gatherings ever assembled together in the city, for any object, filled the hall to overflowing. It was certainly the largest audience ever collected in response to a call from the Massachusetts or New England Anti-Slavery Society, and, in view of the many other meetings held on the same evening, evinced a degree of interest in the cause, on the part of the public, as unexpected as it was most gratifying.
The meeting was called to order by the President, Rev. JOHN T. SARHENT, at twenty minutes before eight o'clock, and the exercises opened with the singing of the familiar anti-slavery hymn commencing-
‘Hark! a voice from Heaven proclaiming
Comfort to the mourning slave.'
Mr. GARRISON, whose appearance was greeted with applause, then read the following resolutions:
Resolved, That we renew our testimony against the American Union, as a sinful alliance with oppressors, which gives strength to the slave system, implicates the North in the guilt of slaveholding, has already induced deep moral, religious, and political corruption, and almost measureless servility to the slave power among the Northern people; and, as it has made the sin of slavery national, threatens to involve the whole nation in the retributive ruin which must come upon all who persist in its perpetuation, as sure as God is just, and His justice will not sleep forever.
Resolved, That in the words of the late lamented Judge Jay, the Union is ’a moat grievous moral curse to the American people; to the people of the South, by fostering, strengthening, and extending an iniquitous and baneful institution; to the millions among us, of African descent, by riveting the chains of the bondman and deepening the degradation of the freeman; to the people of the Free States, by tempting them to, trample under foot the obligations of truth, justice, and humanity, for those wages of iniquity with which the Federal Government rewards apostates to liberty and righteousness.'
Resolved, therefore, That in the name of freedom, of justice, of humanity, of manly self-respect, of duty to man and to God, we call upon all who value these sacred names, to repudiate at once the accursed compact and wrong, and, as the essential means of washing their own hands clean from the blood of the slave, to adopt in word and deed the motto, ‘No Union with Slaveholders.'
The resolutions were received with loud applause. 
SPEECH OF C. L. REMOND.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND was the first speaker. He was warmly cheered as he took his place upon the platform. He said he felt some pride in coming upon that platform, before that large and intelligent assembly, because his appearance, under such circumstances, was the exception, and not the general rule, because he was happy to be recognized among the number who dare regard man as a man, irrespective of accidental or incidental circumstances, and because he could point to black men who had done and dared
<c06>
all for American liberty and independence, which the whitest of his fellow-countrymen could boast of having done. (Loud applause.) He took pride in being there, also, because he thought that whenever and wherever and colored man should have the opportunity of placing the position of his oppressors fairly before the people, he should take advantage of it.
If I had but one reason, said Mr. R., why I consented to appear here, it was because, at this moment, I believe it belongs to the colored man in this country to say, that his lot is a common one with every white man north of the Potomac river; and if you ask me who are my clients, I think I may answer, ‘Every man north of Mason and Dixon's line, without reference to his complexion.' I have read in the newspapers, that one or two distinguished men of this city propose to spend the coming summer in Europe. Born in Boston, educated at Harvard, having been dandled in the lap of Massachusetts favor and Massachusetts popularity, they are about to travel in Europe, among despotisms, monarchies, aristocracies and oligarchies; and I trust in God they may learn, as they travel in those countries, that it is an everlasting disgrace that on the soil on which they were born, no man of color can stand, and be considered free. If they shall learn no more than this, I will wish them a pleasant and prosperous tour; and unless they shall learn this, I hope they will come back, and have the same padlock put upon their lips that is put upon men south of Mason and Dixon's line.
Our friend Mr. Garrison was reading a resolution when I came in, which looks to a dissolution of the Union of these States. I pray to God that he may live long enough to see that event transpire, if it is the only thing that can lead to the freedom of this country. I took up a paper only three days ago, and I read that a public meeting had been held in the State of Mississippi, in which it was resolved, that in the event of a Northern man, with Northern principles, being elected to the Presidential office in 1860, the safety, the welfare, and the honor of the Southern States will demand that they immediately secede. I want to ask this large audience, Mr. Chairman, through you, supposing the citizens of Boston should call a meeting to-morrow, and resolve, that in the event of a Southern man, with Southern principles, being elected to the Presidential office, this State will secede, how would the State of Mississippi receive it? Now, I am here to ask, that the, non-slaveholding States shall dare to do, and write, and publish, and resolve, in behalf of freedom, as the slaveholders dare to act and resolve in behalf of slavery. (Applause.) We need do nothing more. Our fanaticism, our infidelity, our rebellion, (may I say?) consists in this. 
The time has been, Mr. Chairman, when a colored man could scarcely look a white man in the face without trembling, owing to his education and experience. I am not here to boast; but I may say, in view of what I have seen and heard during the last five years, as I said in the Representatives' Hall a few months ago, that our lot is a common one, and the sooner we shall so regard it, and buckle on our knapsacks and shoulder our muskets, and resolve that we will be free, the better for you as well as for me. The disgrace that once rested upon the head of the black man, now hovers over the head of every man and woman whom I have the honor to address this evening, just in proportion as they shall dare to stand erect before the oligarchy of slaveholders in the Southern portion of our country; and God hasten the day when not only Music Hall, but every other hall in the city of Boston, the Athens of America, shall be made redolent and eloquent with tones that shall speak, as man has never before spoken in this country, for the cause of universal freedom. If the result of that speaking must be bloodshed, be it so! If it must be the dissolution of the Union, be it so! If it must be that we must walk over or through the American Church, be it so! The time has come when, if you value your own freedom, James Buchanan must be hung in effigy, and such men as Dr. Nehemiah Adams must be put in the pillory of public disgrace and contempt; and then Massachusetts will cease to be a hissing and a byword in every other country.
In conclusion, Mr. Remond said:-Mr. Chairman, I did not rise to make a speech. I told you, when I rose, that I had neither the strength nor the disposition; and I shall take my seat, with the simple declaration, once for all, that I entertain for those who occupy this platform a regard which I am not able to describe; and notwithstanding all that has been said by my friend Stephen S. Foster to day, in another place, calculated to discourage us, I believe that this movement is the only possible one to effect the peaceable emancipation of the slave. I admit, that my hopes are not strong that the slave will be emancipated by such means. I believe American slavery will go down in blood. I am not only prepared to see it, but I long for the time to come, for I believe it will be a retribution that the American people deserve, and it will be a lesson by which those who come after them will not fail to profit.
The President then announced as the next speaker CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, of Connecticut. (Loud applause.)
SPEECH OF C. C. BURLEIGH.
Mr. CHAIRMAN, -The resolutions which have been read here this evening have announced the faith of the advocates of the Anti-Slavery cause in the doctrine of disunion. Something has been said to-day, by some of the speakers to whom a portion of this audience have listened, about the relative position of our cause at different periods of its history. I think the manner in which the reading of those resolutions was received is an emphatic answer to any doubt, if doubt is any where entertained, as to the fact of our having made progress towards the end we aim at. The time was, and that not long ago, when the announcement of a purpose to advocate disunion would have called forth not applause, as those resolutions called forth to-night, but hisses and groans. To-night we stand before you as the open advocates of a dissolution of a Union which binds the living limbs of freedom to the dead and decaying corpse of slavery; we stand before you as the open advocates of the sundering of that tie by which the North is implicated in the crime of Southern slavery; and the announcement that we come with this purpose calls forth no expression of disapproval, no voice of condemnation, but, so, far as a response is given at all, it is the response of <illegible>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is’ a covenant with death, and an agreement with help.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate than it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
tion. Why is this? Because we have shown, in the prosecution of this enterprise, that the Union is so stained with the blood of the slave, is to blackened with immorality and crime, as to make reasonable the demand which we put forth for its dissolution. Or, if this is not acknowledged at once by the great majority of the people, yet it is acknowledged that we have, at all events, presumptive evidence in favor of the position, ground enough to justify reasonable men and moderate men in entertaining the question whether the Union shall be dissolved or not.
We hare pressed upon the people the reasons for this demand, until they have come to feel that there are reasons for it. At first, it was taken for granted that the demand was utterly unreasonable, that nothing could be said in its behalf, and that to make it was proof conclusive of fanaticism, and traitorous sentiments and treasonable designs. Now, even those who tell us that they see no necessity for a dissolution of the Union, not unfrequently qualify the declaration by saying-ï¿½If we looked at the position of the North as you looked at it, if we regarded the North as so implicated in slavery as you affirm it to be, then we should agree with you. If there can be no Union but on condition of Northern complicity with slavery, if there can be no Union but on condition of the surrender of Northern freedom, under all circumstances, to the domination of the Slave Power, then, says the man who sits in the Governor's chair of Massachusetts today, 'Let the Union slide.' (Cheers.) We are glad that a man in a conspicuous political position should be willing to say so much; but we say a little more than that. We say, that if there can be no Union without complicity with slaveholding, then not only 'let the Union slide,' but give it one strong push to make it 'slide.' See to it that such a Union be not tolerated among honest men, among men who recognize the obligation of the great Law of Love,-the duty of doing unto others as we would have others do unto us.
It is not my purpose, just at the present time, to argue the question of disunion, in the length and breadth of that argument; but I have alluded to the response that not unfrequently meets us-'If we thought as you think concerning the relations of the North, under this Union, to slavery, then we should agree with you, that the Union ought to be dissolved. That seems to me a necessary conclusion in the minds of honest and honorable men, in the minds of men who recognize the truth of the Declaration of Independence. If a man have a right to liberty, if we are bound to do to others as we would have others do to us, and if millions of our fellow-men are crushed into the mire of chattelism by the weight of this American Union, then it is our duty before God, then it is our duty in the presence of a gazing world, watching for evidence of our consistency with our professions, then it is our duty before the judgment bar of our own consciences, then it is our duty to the slave, appealing to us from the very depth of his misery-all the more eloquently because his appeal is mute, for he cannot give it voice,-it is our duty to assail that Union, with all the energy which we would impart to that assault if the chains were clanking upon our limbs, and we knew the rivets were fastened there by the power of the Union.
Now, when men come to me and say, 'If I looked upon the Union as you do; if I believed that, by reason of it, the North is actually holding the slave in his chains, putting off the day of deliverance, strengthening the arm of the oppressor, then I would say, down with the Union! then I would adopt your motto of 'No Union with Slaveholders!'-when men speak thus to me, I ask them, 'What reason have you to give me against the allegation that this Union is riveting the chains of the slave, and that the North, by reason of its continuance in the Union, by reason of its continual reiteration of its oaths to the Constitution, which is the bond of Union, is slaveholder?' And men say, some this, and some that, and some the other. One class says to me-'I think that the Constitution is really anti-slavery. I believe that if it were rightly interpreted, if it were carried out in accordance with its original intention, and the plain meaning of its words, it would sweep slavery from the land at once. So I still remain in the Union, in order to get that power by which I can put the government into the hands of men who believe that slavery is contrary to the Constitution, and who will embody that belief in the administration of the government.' Now to that class, my answer is brief, and, it seems to me, conclusive: 'You and I stand upon the same ground, for we both believe in repudiating a Union which recognizes slavery. If I refuse to sustain that Union, by refusing to swear allegiance to that Constitution, by refusing to give my vote to elevate men into offices in which they will use their power to perpetuate slavery, then I am directly assailing the existing Union. If you, on the other hand, give such interpretation to the Constitution as will make its administration death to slavery, you are assailing the existing Union; for we all know that the Union, which is between the North and the South, between those who call themselves freemen here, and slaveholders there, is a Union conditioned upon participation in slaveholding, and that the slaveholders have repeatedly declared their determination not to consent to any other Union than that. You come, then, to the same conclusion that I come. The moment you attempt to enforce the Constitution as an anti-slavery instrument, that instant you have broken the bond of Union: you have, in act, violated the condition on which the South continues to be in it, and have tendered to the South the alternative, either to accept what is to her a new compact of Union, upon anti-slavery grounds, or to go out of this Union.
Then there is another class of persons who say, 'We do not mean to do those things which the Constitution, according to your interpretation of it, requires. We believe that we have a right to do what God enjoins upon us, even if the Constitution forbids the doing of it.' Perhaps they do not always distinctly put the proposition in those words, but it comes to that at last. For example, I tell them-'You, under the Constitution, not only as I interpret it, but as all the Courts, State and National, interpret it, as the legislatures and executives of all the States and of the nation interpret it,-the Constitution, so interpreted, requires you to give back the runaway slave to his master; requires you, at the command of the kidnapper, to become the kidnapper's bloodhound, to howl upon the track of the human prey;'-and the answer is-'It is so, according to the letter and to customary interpretation, but we do not mean to do that. If the slave comes into our neighborhood, he is safe from his pursuer." How many times have I heard that in Hampshire, in Berkshire, along the borders of the Connecticut, down to the sands of Barnstable! That is the response I hear everywhere when I am urging the dissolution of this guilty compact with the oppressor. They say, 'The Constitution is a good thing in many particulars.' They say, as a man said to me today, 'Let us take what there is good in it, and make the most of it, and let the rest go.' Now, I do not believe in that way of dealing with the South, and I do not believe we can deal with it so. I believe, if we take the Constitution for what it claims to be, the supreme law of the land, we take the whole, and cannot let a part of it go, and yet claim the benefits and guarantees of the other part. But, waiving this objection, I wish to meet those who assume this posiï¿½tion upon their own ground. I say to them-ï¿½You believe that it is right to refuse obedience to this part of the Constitution; you feel that it would be an outrage upon universal humanity to turn slave-catchers here upon the soil of Massachusetts. With Bunker Hill looking down upon you, with the echoes of Faneuil Hall ringing in your ears, with all the memories of the revolutionary period, and with all the deeds of the Pilgrim Fathers calling upon you, like ghosts of the buried past, you know it would be sacrilege to turn slave-catchers upon the soil of Massachusetts, to
<c02>
enforce a statute, claiming to be constitutional, which would stain every inch of Massachusetts soil with the blood of the slave. For, mark you! no discrimination is possible, in doing an act according to law and the Constitution, between the actual doers of it, whose hands take hold upon the deed, and the great mass of citizens who stand behind, and give rigor to those grasping hands. It was not the United States Commissioner nor the United States Marshal that clutched the throat of Anthony Burns, and strangled the life of freedom out of his body. It was the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,-it was the United States of America, including the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and every man who participated in that outrage upon Anthony Burns would have been a kidnapper, and been legally liable to be consigned to the penitentiary, had not the people of Massachusetts breathed vitality into the legal authority by which the deed was done, and made Marshal Freeman and Commissioner Loring their representatives in the doing of it. That is the legal aspect of the case; and yet you tell me that, as an individual men, you shrink from doing such a deed-that you are earnestly opposed to the doing of such a deed, and will, to the utmost of your ability, labor to prevent the doing of it. Then I ask you to take such a position that your power shall not be poured, through the channels of legal authorizaï¿½tion, into the bones and muscles of United States Marshals and Commissioners, when they go about such work. I ask that you shall embody your inmost will, your conscientious conviction, your religious faith in obedience to God rather than man,-in obeying the Bible Fugitive Slave Law, which says, ï¿½Thou shall not deliver unto his master the servant that has escaped from his master unto thee,' rather than that which says, 'Give him up, or pay a fine of a thousand dollars, and be subject to imprisonment six months'- I ask you to embody that religious sentiment, that conscientious conviction, that settled inmost purpose of your souls, in such legislation as shall relieve you entirely from the moral responsibility of the deeds which have been done in your name.' And I insist upon it, that I have the argument here conclusively and unanswerably, if you take the ground that you have a right to obey God rather than man. I am not careful, so that the right conclusion is reached, whether you trample down the Constitution on the ground of the higher law, or trample upon the Union openly and avowedly, declaring that you prefer humanity, justice, fidelity to God, to all political compacts and all fancied advantages which you have from their existence. It is all one to me. But I am taking you upon your own ground; and I say, taking the ground that you are justified to yourself, before the world, and before God, in refusing obedience to a constitutional requirement which is contrary to the Divine law, why do you not put your purpose into an enactment which South Carolina can read? She does not know what you are saying in the chimney-corner, or it is but an indistinct murmuring, if heard at all; but if you stand up in open day, and announce the motto of this platform, 'No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS,' she would understand that; or if you do not choose to take that ground, if you would walk up to the State House, and embody your purpose to have no part in slave-catching, in a statute that should go upon the archives of your State, and be blazoned before the whole nation, South Carolina would understand that. And until you do it, you are playing fast and loose with the South, your conscience, and your God. You are betraying both sides-the slaveholders, by pretending that you will do something which you do not mean to do; and the slave, by allowing him to believe that you stand ready to thrust him back to his chains, if he should ever attempt to escape from them-a belief that the master will take care the slave shall not change, if he can help it. You are playing false to yourselves, by imagining that you can escape responsibility by the words which are every day on your lips in private, while at the same time, in your judicial and legislative departments, you are trampling upon the rights of your brother, turning God's children into a marketable commodity.
Well, what answer do I get to this appeal which I make to the conscience of the nation? Some men answer it manfully by putting their names to a petition asking for such a law as I have mentioned. Some men answer by urging the sending of that petition, and the granting of its prayer by the Legislature. But there is another class of men, who answer me- 'Oh, no; there is no need of doing it; it will only make trouble, and you had better not attempt to pass such a law.'
These men, too, are the representatives of that party which claims to be, in some sort, an anti-slavery party. Probably the most influential organ of that party in the State, certainly the most influential of any outside of the metropolis-the paper which, singly, exerts greater influence than any paper in Massachusetts-comes out openly, decidedly against this legislation for which I am attempting to argue, and opposes it after such a fashion that the beginning of its argument forgets itself before it reaches the middle, and the middle is forgotten before the end is attained (laughter and applause); an article which reminds one, for all the world, of the story which used to amuse and astonish our childhood, of two black snakes that engaged in battle one day. One took the tail of the other into his mouth, who (in his turn) took the tail of his antagonist into his mouth, and they both swallowed and swallowed, until, at the end of the story, each had swallowed the other. (Laughter and applause.)
The Springfield Republican-the paper to which I allude-had an article during the tendency of the petitions before the Legislature at its last session, asking for a Personal Liberty Bill, in which it begins by condemning such a bill as unnecessary. Why, said the editor, we have already done all that is needful in this matter. It is already impossible to take a runaway slave away from Massachusetts. We have a Personal Liberty Bill, which, although it does not in express terms forbid slave-catching upon Massachusetts soil, yet does practically amount to that. It throws so many difficulties in the way of slave-catching as to deter Southern men from attempting it, and make it morally impossible that they should succeed if they attempt it; and thus we indirectly obtain the very object you seek to obtain more directly by the passage of an anti-slave-hunting act. Admitting this to be true, I have one special objection to it; it is not the argument of manly fairness and straight-forward honesty -not the argument of men who mean to deal openhandedly with their fellow-men. I say, if it is true that Massachusetts means to protect slave-catching, say so;-say so, so plainly that South Carolina can understand it. Anticipating that difficulty, the Republican goes on to say,-If we do what you ask us to do, we shall precipitate a result we do not wish to come at. It would be a virtual dissolution of the Union; it would be to go against the compact of Union, and thus to break asunder the bond which holds us together. But when Massachusetts is ready to dissolve the Union, she will do it avowedly, openly, and not by any indirection. Thus having begun by denouncing that measure because it is directly aimed at the attainment of an object which has been already attained by indirection, the Republican concludes by condemning that measure, because it would indirectly hasten an undesired result, which result, on their own showing, when it is desired, will be attained by direct action.
Now, that is the very ground on which we come to you on this question. We say, if Massachusetts has that manly character she is described as possessing, if she means to do what she aims at, directly, then are we proposing to her a method by which she can do that, not by indirection, as by her present round-about Personal Liberty Bill, but directly, by the enactment of a statute declaring that there shall be no slave hunting upon her soil. (Applause.)
Toward, the conclusion of Mr. Burleigh's speech,
<c03>
the impatience of the audience to hear Mr. Phillips was manifested in a somewhat disorderly manner; and Mr. Burleigh, pausing in his train of remark, administered a severe rebuke to those who so far forgot the position in which they stood, as the guests of the Anti-Slavery Society, and the dictates of good manners, as to undertake to decide for themselves what dish should be set before them. It was not, he said, a personal question with him, but a matter of principle, and he should stand upon that platform until the hand upon the dial announced midnight, before he would leave the train of remark he had proposed to himself unfinished. The audience then became quiet and Mr. Burleigh proceeded without interruption, and concluded his able and argumentative speech with loud applause.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
Loud calls were then made for Mr. Phillips, who, on coming forward, was greeted with the most enthusiastic cheers. He said:-
MR. CHAIRMAN: I am rejoiced to see before me perhaps the largest, certainly one of the largest, anti-slavery gatherings that Boston has ever known; one of the largest that has ever come to hear the opinion and purpose of this Society on the subject of slavery. I have seen Faneuil Hall crowded, many times, when some startling event brought all Boston together; but on occasions like this, where no particular incident, but only an ordinary session of our Convention solicited an audience, we have, I may safely say, the largest gathering which Boston has ever given. We meet under fair auspices then, and there certainly is a marked change in the public feeling toward us. This very hall reminds me how great the change is in the public sentiment in Massachusetts. For I do not regard the Anti-Slavery enterprise as single. It is one of a brotherhood. It only makes part of the great modern idea of hum an rights, individual rights; the sanctity and worth of the individual; the safety of leaving the individual as unfettered as possible. The whole history of Massachusetts, from its very commencement, is a history of the constant reaching out of brave and bold minds to fathom and sound the untrodden ocean beyond, and see how safely men could throw aside the stay-laces, the safeguards, the bulwarks, the anchorages of old institutions, and trust to unfettered, individual man. Our movement is a part of this history. Once, the wealthy thought they must take care of the poor-see that they did not hurt the State. Once, the educated thought they must restrain the ignorant, and provide the conscience and the safeguard which God forgot to put into the human heart when he pronounced man perfect. Our past is a history of the loosening and loosening of these chains, and letting the man stand up alone. You sit to-night under the roof where, for fifteen years, Theodore Parker and others of us have uttered religious sentiments, which, when I came to the bar, I saw a man indicted for blasphemy for uttering, under the old law of the Puritans; and nothing but the energetic protest given awakened men, for the first time, to the danger of the latent bigotry of Massachusetts, saved the State from the disgrace of putting freedom of religious thought into its common jail, without sympathy-as it did actually close the door upon the victim, quickly released. That was freedom of the mind. Massachusetts recognized then the safety of throwing away the spiritual chains which she had not, up to that moment, recognized the fact that she wore. Ours is the freedom of the body. This meeting tonight, counted by thousands, assembled in the most luxurious hall of the city-is it not evidence of progress? Edward Everett, a little more than twenty years ago, recommended the Legislature to provide every one of us with a cell in the State Prison, for the sin of coming to such meetings as this. Indeed, we should make a jolly company! (Laughter and applause.) I do not mean to say, that in bold, manly, outspoken, unequivocal and unmistakable language, Gov. Everett recommended that course, because that is not in him. (Laughter.) He belongs to that immortal class,
'Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike;
Just hints a fault, and hesitates dislike.'
He let the Legislature understand, in delicate, guarded, equivocal, nicely-chosen, and double-meaning phrases,-habitual to him,-that the opinion of the Governor, if they would not press him too hard, was, that such a meeting as this was indictable at common law, and the penalty should be imprisonment; for such a meeting hazarded the peace and perpetuity both of the plantation and the Union!
A VOICE. 'Where is Edward Everett now?'
Mr. PHILLIPS. I do not know. All I know is, that this is a very comfortable State Prison, if it be indeed the one Massachusetts provides for us in 1859. (Laughter and cheers.)
Now, I use these facts thus. We are not so good as our fathers, if we are just like them; because every age has its own duties, and to be really like our fathers, we must outdo them. That is, we must take their essential principles, and not stopping at their use of them, go on and apply them, as they did, to the pressing evil OF THE DAY, do our duty in our age, not merely perpetuate their merits, like the Chinese making his whole set with a crack according to the model sent him. Massachusetts achieved for us spiritual liberty. The common sense of the Commonwealth gracefully affected not to understand Gov. Everett, and here are we to-day, in the enjoyment of the utmost freedom of discussion on the subject of slavery.
But look at this platform, ladies and gentlemen; look at this meeting, It is met to consider the great sin of the age; the great blot on American character, the black stain on American pretension to Republicanism-that which Europe considers our great, momentous question-the only one which darkens the brightness of our national horizon. Every sixth man and woman in the country liable to be sold at auction; every sixth man and woman in the nation forbidden by statute to learn to read; an indictable offence to teach every sixth man and woman in the country to read the alphabet; every sixth man and woman in the nation forbidden to have a husband or wife; the sanctity of marriage, by statute, systematically and of purpose, annihilated in regard to one-sixth part of a nation calling itself Christian! That is the sin which, year after year, we assemble to consider. No clergy man of any repute puts his foot on this platform; no politician who has any hopes puts his foot on this platform; no man, whose name can by any possibility be offered for the suffrages of the people, ever puts his foot upon this platform. The greatest moral question of the age, the only moral issue, under discussion, in a country that looks to forty thousand pulpits and the Bible as the guides of its religious sense, instead of these boards being covered by clergymen, so that I, a lawyer, cannot find a square inch to stand upon, it is impossible to find a Doctor of Divinity to stare at. (Laughter.)
That is the condition of the Anti-Slavery movement. I allow there are other movements; there is a political movement, for certain territorial purposes; there is a Republican party, for certain State purposes. I am speaking of the heart of Massachusetts-the religious purpose of Massachusetts, grappling with the great sin of thirty millions of people. Year after year, it comes up solely represented by this assemblage, and no man who loves his reputation is to be found here. Take that fact, and go with it as a test of the state of the public mind, under the influences of the religious and intellectual forces that go to make public opinion. 
I do not descend to any individual cases-mine is a national indictment. Why do I make it? Because I want a country to love. As Burke said, 'In order to love your country, your country must be loveable.' I remember, twenty years ago, when I read the life of Granville Sharpe, the London apprentice, the lawyer, who studied law in order to probe the slave question, the incident in his life that touched me closest was the escape of a poor negro
<c04>
whom he found on board a vessel which had reached the Downs, and was under weigh for the West Indies. Chained to the mast, the hopeless victim was straining his gate, through eyes bathed in tears, to catch a last glimpse of that land which he had fondly thought would be a shelter for him-an hour more, he would lose sight of it forever; but he straggled to keep the sight of it to the last. The stout Englishman plants his foot on the deck, spite of the captain's threats and violence. The chain is burst. Crying now for joy, the glad freeman follows Sharpe into his boat, who has the right to tell him, 'The land you struggled to keep sight of through those bitter tears, has a safe shelter for you forever.' God bless it! Is not that a land to be loved? (Applause.)
Now, Mr. Chairman, I long for the same proud pleasure in Massachusetts that Sharpe had on the glad bosom of the Thames that day.
About a fortnight ago, there anchored on the South side of Cape Cod, in one of those quiet harbors, a Massachusetts brig. Chained to her capstan was one of the noblest men who ever breathed Massachusetts air.
You and I were born free-little credit to us. He, not only, under God, was born a freeman, though in chains, but took his life in his right hand, and at the risk of death, hid himself in the hold of the vessel,-without air, without food, without room to move until he got near to Massachusetts waters. Then, when nature, exhausted, could bear it no longer, he was obliged to make his way to the deck to die. They seized him; chained him to the capstan; and made their arrangements to carry him back to slavery. The Telegraph flashed forth and back the question how this should be done. Meanwhile, through the long still hours of a New England Sabbath, the pirate ship floated calm on the sunny sea. In Boston streets men whispered-on the harbor wharf the owners took counsel-before they went in to worship God, or after the form of prayer was finished, and not one finger was lifted for the man who carried all Bunker Hill in his heart. Not one rebellious pulses stirred that village; not one pulpit exhortation, not one Massachusetts protest. The day rolled on; Massachusetts men unfurled their sails, weighed anchor, and took him back to that hell which though hotter than Rome ever threatened, will never be hot enough for them. (Loud applause.) That is your Massachusetts! Last winter, this body led the way in going to the State House, and asking of a Republican-of a REPUBLICAN -of a REPUBLICAN Legislature a law that should make it a State Prison offence to carry back a man, no matter where from, or with what horrid rites devoted to the fate of a slave, from the soil of Massachusetts to bondage. That Yankee captain carried his victim back to avoid the payment of a thousand dollars. We asked a Republican Legislature to make it cost him more to carry him back than to let him stay. (Cheers.) And they said, 'No; it is unconstitutional, and we should hazard our success in 1860 to make humanity legal in Massachusetts.' Now, there is the head and front of our treason. We care nothing for that Constitution. Our object, plainly avowed, is to take this State of ours out of a Union which makes the professedly anti-slavery members of a Republican Legislature obliged by their oaths to allow that act to be done in any guise, with or without formalities. Which side do you take in this controversy? How far have you traveled in this Massachusetts groove? How individual and democratic are you? I told you that Massachusetts has been gradually growing to throw off the superstitious regard for ecclesiastical and civil fetters. How much have your minds profited by that progress? How ready are you to join us?
I will tell you, gentlemen, exactly what I count upon. I do not count simply upon the distinct and specific anti-slavery purpose of Massachusetts. I trust partly in the general growth of individuals, and (in its broad and generous sense) Democratic independence! Let me tell you what I mean. Last month, there was published in this city a pleasant libel in the form of a dainty volume, called ' The Life of Chief Justice Parsons,' written by a man who pretends to be his son, and is, I understand, a professor in Harvard University Well, that is no very great title! (Laughter.) One such professor murdered his friend lately, and this other has murdered his father. (Renewed laughter and applause.) Of course, I suppose this gentleman imagines that in the statements he makes regarding his father, he is doing him honor. He presents in one chapter the Chief Justice on the bench, and groups there some dozen anecdotes, going to show that Parsons, the worthy old Federalist, the head of the 'Essex junta,' the model judge, the boast of Massachusetts law, was in fact a Jeffries;-that he undertook to tell Otis, and Dexter, and Blake, and Burgess, when he did not think a case deserved to be argued, they should not argue it; made himself, like the man in Hood's comic song, judge, jury, and executioner; and threatened to commit Francis Blake if he attempted to address a jury on the evidence when he, the judge, forbade him to do so. Now, of course, this is all false. The poor demented Whig has scraped together the refuse of bar-room talk and old wivesï¿½ gossip as his idea of history and honorable conduct, and hides his father's brow with such a chaplet of nightshade. (Loud applause.) Chief Justice Parsons was never half so bad as that; Otis was not a coward; Blake was not a fool; Dexter was not a spaniel; and Burgess was not a puppy. (Great merriment.) But the reason I tell you the story is this: it opens to you the heart of a fossil hunker. It is as good as a specimen for Agassiz, to get at the nature of an extinct race. The writer is an old Whig,-an old Winthrop, Fillmore, fossil, Webster, Fugitive Slave Bill, Massachusetts politician, smothered and chilled into a Harvard College Professor, (laughter and applause,) and is endeavoring to compliment and weave a chaplet of laurel for his father. Of course, he wants to make it green and beautiful; only, unconsciously, he paints a Jeffries! That is the muscle of Massachusetts which holds on to the Union. That is the side of Massachusetts that has not learned anything for fifty years. That is the side of Massachusetts that thinks, if there was not the Constitution of '87, Charles  River would flow up hill-that we sleep and digest in consequence of James Buchanan's being President, just 'as the sun rises because the cock crows.' (Laughter and applause.)
Now, how much have you got away from that type of mind? You do not get away from it necessarily, by being a professed anti-slavery man; you do not get away from it simply by being a Republican. Oh, no! The highest office in the gift of the Republican party of Massachusetts is held to-day, and within our meeting was its incumbent this very day, by a man who did not blush to say, within five years, that if ever his party got the control of the nation, the man who talked disunion in Massachusetts should hang as high as the man who talked disunion in the Carolinas! That is the Republican Senatorship of Massachusetts! It is not necessary that a man who is a Republican should be as blind as that-Oh, no! I am only showing you that a man who is a Republican, and is in office, has not necessarily got his eyes open.
What is necessary in order to understand the argument I address to you is this: that you should recognize the fact that a negro is a man, and shat all the moral principles which apply to white men apply to him; and that, when the State undertakes to apply them to him, she should apply them with as rigid a loyalty to justice as if his skin were white. Many of you think you have learned that; but you have not. When I say, 'A negro is a man,' you say, 'Of course he is; how foolish to tire us with such a truism as that!' Well, my doubting friend, suppose that negro to-night should cut his master's throat, and burn down his dwelling, what name would you give to him? I would call him George Washington, William Wallace, William Tell, John Hancock, carved in ebony-what would you call him? Does your heart leap up and say, 'Would to God I too were of the heroic. class like him!' or do you cry out, 'Far-
<c05>
naturism!'-'Insurrection!'-'Bloodshed!'-'Murder!' Or do you say, 'A nigger George Washington?' A great deal in that word! William H. Seward understands how much there is in it; for I am told he said, when somebody asked him if Douglas would ever be President, 'No, sir; no man will ever be President of the United States who spells "negro" with two g's.' (Laughter and rapturous applause.) Seward knows that a negro is a man. Seward knows, though I think he dare not say it yet, that the negro is a basis upon which, and for which, it would be honorable to break this Union asunder. That very anecdote which I have told you shows how deep down in the very substratum of the man's moral nature has penetrated the irresistible conviction that the black man has reason enough, in his wrongs and in his chains, by which to weigh and to test the Union itself.
Now, Mr. Chairman, we have a petition which we mean to present to the Legislature-a petition which carries out the very idea which I have been endeavoring to set before you. It is a disunion petition-I allow it. It is a petition that sets its right foot on the Constitution of 1787. It says:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Massachusetts.
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court. State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the slave States of this Union.
[Mr. Phillips continued to urge, in an earnest appeal, the signing of this petition-repeating with great effect the story of the woman's escape mentioned in his speech at New York, which we printed last week. This appeal was listened to in profound silence, and made a marked impression on the audience, which enthusiastically cheered him as he took his seat.]
Adjourned to meet on Thursday morning, at Mercantile Hall, at 10 o'clock.
THURSDAY.
MORNING SESSION.-Convention again assembled in Mercantile Hall. The President in the chair.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., referred to the case of the fugitive slave who was recently seized in Hyannis harbor, and transferred from one vessel to another, and taken back to slavery, (to Norfolk, Va.) without any law, of one kind or another. He took pleasure in informing the Convention that the kidnapping captain and mate who sent that man back to slavery were arrested last evening in this city, and were this morning undergoing an examination before one of the Courts of this State, on charge of kidnapping.
Mr. GARRISON spoke of the testimony given by Rev. Mr. Bleby, of Barbadoes, when visiting this country last year, in regard to the workings of slavery, of immediate emancipation, of apprenticeship (or modified slavery) and of the progress of the colored population in the British West Indies in industry, civilization, and religion, since the abolition of slavery was completed-by way of introduction to a very interesting and friendly letter just received by him from Mr. Bleby, which he proceeded to read, (and which will be found in another column.)
Mrs. CAROLINE H. DALL rose to say that the value of any testimony in regard to emancipation in the West India Islands depended upon the character of the man who gave it.
Perhaps it would interest the audience to know that the person, unaccountably called Mr. Hincks in Mr. Bleby's letter, was really Sir Francis Hincks, formerly premier of Canada-no weak-minded enthusiast, but one of the most remarkable living financiers. He found the Canadian exchequer bankrupt, and brought the government stock in a few yean to the premium of 20 per cent. The British Government acknowledged this service by the baronetcy he at present enjoys, and the government of the island of Barbadoes.
Mr. SARGENT, President of the Convention, spoke briefly respecting his recollections of the early days of the Anti-Slavery cause, and then, being obliged to leave the hall for a time, called one of the Vice Presidents to take his place. He referred, in his remarks, to his own personal experience in this cause, from the days when, in his prejudice and blindness, he used to feel nothing but scorn for it, and for its advocates, to the time when he came to feel for it the highest respect, and to cherish for its friends and supporters, as he now did, the warmest sentiments of esteem and affection.
EDMUND QUINCY, on taking the chair, humorously expressed his satisfaction that one person had appeared to share with Francis Jackson and himself the labor and responsibility of presiding at the New England Anti-Slavery Conventions! His own recollections confirmed those of Mr. Sargent. He attained during the present year his legal majority, having been twenty-one years in the service of the Anti-Slavery cause,-the only cause, he thought, in the public affairs of this country, worthy the support of a man or a gentleman. He rejoiced that he had been able to see, when this subject first came up to claim the attention of the public, that it deserved this precedence, and that he had ever since acted with it. He said-
I do not sympathize with the views of those who see no advance in the prosperity of our cause. This meeting-the meeting last night-are proofs of the contrary. The throngs that formerly assembled at such meetings came to mob the abolitionists-to bait them; and were sent there, virtually, by the merchants on your wharves and the ministers in your pulpits. And the respectable people who came without the purpose to participate in these outrages, came to amuse themselves with the contest, to see whether the abolitionists would gore the curs that were yelping at them as they generally did, most effectually.
The whole community now take, in many important particulars, the very ground which we were then accused of taking.
I have never forgotten what that noble, that sainted man, Dr. Fallen, said at my own table, that the glory of the anti-slavery cause was, that we had no plan; that we were advocating certain great and true principles which must work well in operation, from the very constitution and nature which God had given to man, and that our fearless action in conformity with them was a wise and faithful trust in Him. When our revolutionary fathers first stood in actual presence of the idea of disunion, what could they say when they were asked-as they very often were-what is your plan? what are you going to do? what will be the consequence of all this? They had no such definite information to give. They said plainly-we neither know nor care what the consequences will be; we are standing on our rights as men, and as British subjects; and we do not fear that any permanent ill results can come of such action. They went on in this fearless course, and were triumphant.
Suppose the Republican party could succeed in 1860 -which it cannot; and suppose that the Southern States should thereupon secede, and dissolve the Union-which they will not; (I wish to Heaven they would;) would it be any calamity to New England? Could not we still get along uncommonly well?
Just think what a splendid country we should have! If this excrescence, this disease, this monstrous tumor would forthwith cut itself off from the body politic, what a noble Northern republic we might have then! The Constitution would need very little amendment to be good enough for us. We should be perfectly willing to give up to New York any fugitives who might escape from service or labor really due. All the needful changes might be easily and promptly made.
Just think, now, how unspeakably mean and base must be our position in the event of an insurrection of the slaves, a servile war! Our Constitution now requires us, in such a case, to help tyranny against 
<c06>
freedom. But, after a dissolution of the Union, does any one suppose that, in the event of such a war, any help would go from the free Northern Republic to aid the masters-to re-subjugate the slaves? No, never!
We are called infidels. I, am not an infidel, for I believe. The whole anti-slavery movement is a movement directly proceeding from faith in God; from absolute assurance that principles which he has written in our hearts must lead to good results in action; that it is safe to trust in them, and to act upon them; and that no security is to be found in any different position.
A time was then assigned, by vote, for the consideration of the subject of finance.
Mr. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, read the following resolutions, respecting the recent decease of CHARLES F. HOVEY:-
Resolved, That among the many mysterious dispensations of Nature and Providence, during the past year, the sudden removal by death of our inestimable and never-to-be-forgotten friend, the late CHARLES P. HOVEY, is among the most afflictive and mournful.
Resolved, That while profoundly sensible that no eulogy of ours can do justice to a life like his, not praise and panegyric shed any new lustre on a memory already embalmed in the hearts of multitudes whom his never-failing sympathies and charities have blessed, we would still register our witness to his unspeakable worth in all the relations, public and private, in which he moved; and of the almost irretrievable loss our cause, and every important and philanthropic enterprise, have sustained in his removal.
Resolved, That it shall ever be our high purpose to prove the deep sincerity of our admiration for his character, and respect for his virtues, by imitating them to the utmost of our power; his manly courage and unshaken constancy, especially in every important but unpopular cause; his unconquerable faith in the power of simple truth and ideas to accomplish every great work of humanity; his lofty sense of justice, reaching from the very heights of national and commercial interest to the humblest relations and occupations of his fellow-men; his hearty hatred of all shams and pretensions in religion, in polity, and in social life; his ever mindful respect and regard for the rights of universal humanity, irrespective of sex, complexion or condition; his deep interest in every work of philanthropy, progress, and real reform; his generous and unfailing contributions to their support, besides a golden stream of more private charities, never failing; his deep and affectionate devotion in his family relations, the constant, trusting and faithful friend, the model merchant and man of business, and whatever else is ever united in the most highly favored and endowed among the sons of men.
Resolved, That the President of this Convention be instructed to communicate a copy of these Resolutions to the bereaved widow and family of our departed friend.
Mr. Pillsbury spoke substantially as follows:-
There are occasions, Mr. Chairman, where silence is the truest speech; where the deepest emotions of the soul do not admit of being formed into words. If there were ever an occasion where deep and solems feelings should rest on every mind and heart, one might suppose the present is peculiarly and emphatically such an occasion. We have not come here to day, either to praise or to bury our friend; and yet, perhaps, we cannot do full justice to him, unless we try to' say something in his behalf; for it was a peculiarity of his never to blazon his own virtue. Among the many excellent and noble traits in his character, that of entire self-forgetfulness most conspicuous.
I have known some men in this land, and in other lands, eminent for their many virtues and graces of character; but, at the same time, I never yet knew a man who combined in himself so much that is excellent,-peculiarly so,-in human character, as did he There are those who have eloquence of speech, which he had not; but he had the more lofty eloquence of DEEDS, the record of which is not only embalmed in multitudes of grateful hearts, but I trust in the ledgers on high; and that they shall be held in perpetual remembrance, while memory performs its office.
He was a peculiar and happy combination of all that gives us, or that can give us, the highest conception of the possibility of perfection in the human charï¿½acter. But I cannot speak as I feel in regard to it, and it seems as though I should do better justice to his memory by the deep and unutterable grief which I feel, whenever I think of his loss. And yet, that grief is always relieved by the remembrance that I know, and am sure, in the first place, that he is not lost, and that such as he cannot be lost; and more than that, whatever there be of loss to us, is his far greater gain; and in so far as he is lost to us, I fancy it is only in appearance. I trust that his spirit is hovering over this audience, and has an inspiring influence, perhaps more potent in its effects upon us than was his bodily presence in his most felicitous hours.
One year ago, he was among us- among us in the vigor of health and manly life. Few among us had better lease of life, apparently, than had he; but we have found how true it is that 'Death loves a shining mark!ï¿½ We have found that there may be other fields of usefulness, where the brightest gifts are required; and we may believe, we cannot but believe, that in Infinite Wisdom he has been transferred to those higher scenes, and those holier and nobler occupations,-if there be such holier and nobler than he engaged in when on earth; and that there may be; a reflective influence from him back upon us, that shall be more to us than his presence has ever been. His place, to human gaze, is now vacant: there is a lost planet now to mourn for. The brightest luminary in our constellation has suddenly disappeared. But, as the resolution read declares, we can best prove our admiration of his character by the highest and most constant attempts to imitate his many manly and noble virtues.
There is one peculiarity to which I may allude, and that is, that the most unpopular, the most extreme, the most extravagant ideas, the most ultra and deï¿½spised sentiments, were such as he ever sought out, and made his peculiar care-the lowest among the low in condition, the extremest in extreme ideas, the most extravagant positions in our extravagant movements in reform and progress.   It was among these, and upon these, that he dwelt with peculiar pleasure and satisfaction. I knew him, perhaps, as intimately, for the last five years of his life, as did any of you; and though, in almost every particular, there were wide differences between us in all outward considerations, still, in heart, in spirit, and in soul, I can truly say that we were one. And in these very sentiments, where I have been so unfortunate as to differ with my noble companions and friends, I ever acted in accordance with his views, and ever had his sanction and approval, in their extremest form. And in the present advocacy of sentiments, with the same extravagance, I am but carrying out his constantly expressed wishes down to the latest period of his life, while there was health remaining to give utterance to those sentiments. And if he be. to-day, looking down from the heights of blessedness above, into my heart, I can appeal to my heart and say that it is, as it ever has been my intention, to be true to my own convictions; and the greatest joy I feel in this attempt to be thus faithful is, that I have gained his approval in every position and sentiment which I have advanced.
But, Mr. Chairman, our time is short, and I certainly should do violence to all his professions and declarations, if I should consume the golden moments of this opportunity in dwelling on his virtues. I will, therefore, pay the highest possible tribute to his memory, by bringing my remarks to a close, and living for the time which must come,-it may come soon,-when I can tell him, face to face, all he will wish me to say in regard to what he has been to me. For I know he would not have me waste your time in
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
speaking here; so I shall simply close by repeating,
what he and I many times, when together, have read
with great delight, from his favorite poet Burns:-
'The bridegroom may forget the bride
Was made a wedded wife yestreen,
The monarch may forget the crown 
That on his head an hour hath been,
The mother may forget the babe 
That smiled so sweetly on her knee;
But I'll remember thee, my friend,
And all that thou hast done for me.'
Mr. PHILLIPS continued, enlarging on the energy, frankness and independence of Mr. Hovey's character, the great loss his death was to the Anti-Slavery enterprise, and to the circle of devoted friends who gather round it.
HENRY C. WRIGHT bore a feeling testimony, after a long and intimate acquaintance, to the rare merits of his deceased friend. 
Mr. GARRISON rose and said:-
Every one of us feels his heart strongly pulsate in favor of the resolutions that have been submitted to us as a tribute to the memory of our departed friend. The bereavement is felt to be universal. Having elsewhere borne my testimony, it is not necessary for me to occupy any length of time in speaking of the worth of one so dear to us. 
Briefly, then, let me say, he possessed certain traits of character that were remarkable, and worthy of being held up to the imitation and admiration of all.
There was nothing, I think, he liked so well as a manly and brave spirit. He went for free thought and free speech to any extent. No matter what the meeting might be, or what its object, his only inquiry was, ï¿½Does it allow all sides to be fairly heard?' If so, he was ready to contribute generously to defray its expenses. Last summer, for instance-as you will recollect-a Convention was called at Rutland, Vermont, for the purpose of discussing the various reformatory movements of the age-the largest liberty of speech being guaranteed to all who should attend. It was called chiefly, if not exclusively, by those who are interested in modern Spiritualism,-for which our friend Hovey had no taste, and towards which he cherished some repugnance; never having seen any of its phenomena that led him to believe in their spiritual origin. Though he had no reason to doubt that the Convention would naturally be mainly controlled by Spiritualists, and perhaps most of the speeches made by them, yet, inasmuch as they invited all persons to come to it, bringing their own ideas with them, and an unfettered tongue to advocate what they pleased, he not only attended the Convention, but employed at his own expense the best reporter to record all that might be said or done, faithfully and impartially, on that occasion-the proceedings making a large and handsomely printed pamphlet of nearly two hundred pages. I doubt if there be one man in a million to be found, whose love of free discussion in general is so strong as to induce him to make such an expenditure in its behalf, under similar circumstances.
What always impressed me was his moral courage. I think if there was ever a man delivered from ï¿½the fear of man,' it was CHARLES F. HOVEY. If there was ever a man who did not stop to ask whether the cause was popular or not, before he espoused it, it was our lamented friend. Believing it to be right and true, he gave himself to it with a whole heart and a generous will.
My friend, Mr. PHILLIPS, has spoken of the beneficent bequest Mr. Hovey has made to the Anti-Slavery cause. That bequest, I think, was truly characteristic, and especially noticeable, for this reason: Our glorious cause has been before this nation for thirty years, challenging the sympathy and aid of all classes. Many rich men have died during that time;-men of property are dying every day, and are making liberal bequests for charitable purposes. But, mark you! always for those purposes which will be sure to receive the approbation of every body, but never to promote an unpopular movement. So calculating, timid and conservative is wealth. CHARLES F. HOVEY is the very first man of property who has died, and left a large portion of his means, or any considerable amount, to the Anti-Slavery cause, or to other kindred enterprises. May he not be the last!
It is impossible to praise, sufficiently, his kindness and benevolence. I find it going out in all directions. The other day, in my household, I was speaking of our departed friend, when the young Irish girl, who lives with me, related the following incident:-
ï¿½I went into his store, one day, for the purpose of purchasing a dress. I saw a piece of calico that pleased me very much, but I had not money enough with me to buy it. Mr. Hovey was there. I told him I was sorry I could not take it; but if he would trust me, I would certainly bring him the balance. He said he would trust me. When I went to him, a few days after, to offer him the money, he said, ï¿½I hardly expected to see you again; but I like your integrity of character so much, I wish you to keep the money.'
A very trifling incident, indeed-but so thoroughly characteristic of the man!
He was remarkably genial in spirit, as well as firm in purpose. Our friend Mr. Pillsbury has well said, he was the most ultra of the ultra. He stood in the fore front, as far as it was possible for a man to go, and yet keep his balance; yet, while he was uncompromising, he was always magnanimous. What he asked of others was, not an exact agreement with all his opinions, but manly straight-forwardness and consistency in carrying out what they professed to believe. He despised all shuffling and time-serving.
He never looked on the dark side of a question, but was ever buoyant and hopeful. With him there was ï¿½no such word as fail.'
He was a thorough democrat. He espoused the democratic party when a young man, full of zeal and deep sincerity. He supposed that party to be all that was in his own soul, and, as a matter of course, on the side of humanity and freedom. But he soon found that it was a thoroughly rotten and hypocritical party, and he left it in disgust.
As he was just despairing of finding any party to respond to his honest and noble nature, he chanced, one day, as a matter of curiosity, to come into a meeting of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention; and there he heard men and women uttering the noblest sentiments in behalf of the most oppressed and despised of the human race, and in the face of popular violence and obloquy, with no motive but that of disinterested benevolence; and he said, ï¿½I must know these people better, and see whether they are really actuated by principle, and mean what they say. If so, they are the party for which I have been seeking From that moment till the hour of his death, he was one with us.
Mr. President, there has been a remarkable preservation of the Abolitionists through our long and fearful struggle-a struggle which covers an entire generation. How few, especially of the earliest and most prominent actors therein, have been called away! It seems to me that the providence of God has been singularly displayed in this fact. In the course of nature, however, we must soon be taking leave of each other. Every Convention like this is to be regarded as a farewell meeting to some of us. Of one thing I feel sure: whenever ï¿½the inevitable hour' shall come to any of us, we shall never regret any sacrifice we may have made, or labor performed, in behalf of the enslaved in our land? To whatever sphere of existence we may be translated, we shall never look back with sorrow that we espoused the cause of a people, ï¿½peeled, meted out, and trodden under foot.' Our time is short: let us work while the day lasts. For one, I would not live always here. I am ready to go at any moment. Nothing in this universe do I accept with more joy or more gratitude than this change which we call death. Death-what is it?
As much a manifestation of the benevolence and
<c02>
wisdom of God as earthly existence itself. It is an event as natural as the falling of a leaf, or the blossoming of a flower. There is no evil in it. Death-it is, ï¿½Excelsior!' It is ï¿½Onward and upï¿½ward!' It is a better and a higher position-a nobler sphere of life. it is not to be met with resignation, as though it were a calamity or a judgment in itself, but rather with thankfulness and a victorious spirit, in God's good time. Come the last hour when it may, I trust my song shall be-
ï¿½I'll praise my Maker with my breath; 
And when my voice is lost in death,
Praise shall employ my nobler powers;
Mr. days of praise shall ne'er be past,
White life, and thought, and being last,
Or immortality endures.'

SAMUEL MAY, Jr., said.-
It can be no violent transition to pass from the consideration of our friend's loss to take up the subject of financial aid to our cause which has been assigned to this hour. I therefore more that the Finance Committee now proceed to ask of the Convention their donations and pledges of aid for the coming year.
While this work was proceeding, Mr. Garrison exhibited a large and fearful whip, manufactured with tens of thousands more such, in Westfield, in this State, for the Southern market, to be used upon the bodies of men and women. Others remarked that Westfield is a very orthodox town, and that no audience could be found there lately for an anti-slavery meeting.
Mrs. ABBY K. FOSTER said she had recently heard that Ohio was now better prepared to welcome and repay the preaching of thorough anti-slavery truth than ever before. She spoke of the fact that thirty or forty citizens of Ohio were now in prison for rescuing a man from the hands of slaveholders, and said that these men, who had long been members of the Republican party, and so supporters of the Union and Government (which exists by agreeing to slavery.) were now having the poisoned chalice commended to their own lips.
Mr. SARGENT added to his reminiscences of the commencement of his anti-slavery life, some particulars respecting Wendell Phillips.
Mr. Foss said he went this morning to hear Dr. Cheever before the American Missionary Association, and he had never before heard such magnificent 
cursing. Dr. C. spoke of the American Board of Missions as a ï¿½dunghill of depravity,' and said that the walls of Zion are sweating and oozing with wickedness, so that one might dip their fingers therein, and write ï¿½Ichabod' there. 
I was struck, said Mr. Foss, with the appearance of the audience. As the speaker proceeded, the ministers gradually disappeared from the platform.
But, after all this terrible denunciation, Dr. Cheever spoke of the American Board as a body of Christian men! Is not this a marvellous thing? It seems to me that Dr. Cheever and Henry Ward Beecher are melancholy instances of the ruinous effect of a false theology upon characters otherwise noble and manly. 
I wish now to speak of the Personal Liberty Bill. Republicans and others, who have expressed good will to the cause of the slave, have asked for something tangible to which to apply themselves in this work. We now give them something tangible. Let them circulate this petition, and get to it the name of 
every member of their party, every citizen of their town.
Judge Harrington, of Vermont, said he would not surrender a human being as a slave, unless the claimant brought him a bill of sale signed by God Almighty.
I would not accept even this. I should assume it undoubtedly to be a forgery.
I rejoice at the progress made in Vermont, out I am now chiefly concerned for Massachusetts. Slaves can now be taken from our soil. I want that to be henceforth rendered impossible. I want hundreds of thousands of names to the petitions, and a large majority for the proposed bill in both houses.
Mr. Garrison said-'The leaders of the people cause them to err.' This bill would have been passed at the last session but for the opposition of Gov. Banks. He had an object which seemed to him more important than this, namely, the purchase, for Massachusetts, of the house once occupied by Governor Hancock! Instead of working the needful righteousness to-day, he is building and whitening the sepulchres of dead prophets.
Mrs. Foster made an earnest appeal, as far as her voice would allow, for active help to the cause, both by contribution and personal labor.
Adjourned, to meet 1-4 before three.

THURSDAY AFTERNOON.
The meeting was called to order by the President, 
at 3 o'clock.
HENRY C. WRIGHT read a series of resolutions, affirming that the Republican party, sustaining the system of slavery in fifteen States, cannot be trusted to prevent the revival of the foreign slave trade, or to effect the abolition of the domestic slave trade; that a Church that can sustain a communion with slaveholders, cannot be recognized by the friends of abolition; that slave holders and slave-hunters, as such, have no rights which any man, white or black, is bound to respect; that no man can be a hearty or efficient Abolitionist, or true friend to liberty, who esteems any object paramount to the abolition of slavery; that the formation of the American Union is in itself a wrong and outrage which no power in the universe can make right or justify.
He said that in this city and in this country, a horse is practically considered of more value than a man, a sheep than a human soul; because, if I steal a horse or a sheep, I am turned out of the ministry and out of the Church; while, if I steal a man, I am a good American church member and Christian,-a teacher of Christianity, a Doctor of Divinity. And, as in Church, so in State. Our friend Henry Wilson, who sits before me, would not sit in Congress beside horsestealers and sheep-stealers as honorable men, and fit associates and co-legislators; but he does sit with men-stealers. If he was a slave,-and I wish to God he was, for a while-for if any one should be a slave, it should not be the poor blacks, who cannot speak for themselves, but the strong white man, who can speak; and I wish the Wilsons, the Sumners and the Giddingses could but be slaves a while, they would then be willing to speak for the slave. If the Constitution made them slaves, they would crush the Constitution: they would not sit down in Congress with men who stole their wives or children.
I have no confidence in the Republican party. It does not propose to abolish or hinder slavery, but does propose to defend and sustain it. Such a party can do nothing for liberty. No party that does not make man superior to institutions, or to his accidents, can be a friend of freedom.
I do not care to discuss any question of the rightfulness of slavery, or whether the Constitution or the Bible sustains it. It is wrong of itself, and a whole Bible full of denunciation could not make it wrong, neither could a whole Bible full of support of it make it right. And no man would take a Bible endorsement for his own enslavement.
S. S. FOSTER then made a speech at length in further elucidation of his position against the inefficiency of our Society and its movements, and in demonstration of its retrogressive course, as it appeared to him. He complained that, in whatever he said, he was misrepresented; at one time too sanguine, at another not believing in any progress of the anti-slavery cause. He went on at some length, criticising and condemning the course of the Liberator and Standard as lacking in fidelity and impartiality.
The Republican party he conceded to be more elevated, both in intellectual and moral worth, than the Democrats, and therefore he considered them as more criminal in regard to slavery. He did not believe that 
<c03>
slavery could exist one moment in the keeping of the Democrats, if not sustained by the Republicans. As to the Republican party's defending itself on this platform, they dared not do it, for all of its leaders admitted all he had charged.
The trouble all came from dallying with the Republican party, which had played the very devil with the cause. All the Society did with its money and influence was calculated to build up the Republican party, more from this source than from any other.
Mr. Foster gave the Society warning that if they did not do better in future, and still continued to countenance or encourage the Republican party, he must bid them farewell, much as he regretted it, and endeavor to place himself in a position to act with freedom.
Mr. Foster proposed a resolution, with a platform for a new political party, discountenancing in every way all union with slaveholders or slaveholding.
Mr. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, made a further report:-
Whereas, for seventy years, the people of this Commonwealth have wickedly and ruthlessly consented to the hunting of men, women and children within their
borders, by Southern slave-hunters, and have helped to seize, and fetter, and return to slavery, those who have had the heroism to seek their freedom by flight; and,
Whereas, they have hitherto attempted to shield themselves behind the plea of acquiescing in a constitutional arrangement, essential to the preservation of the Union; therefore,
Resolved, That it avails nothing to say that, by the Constitution, ï¿½we are' delivered to do this thing'-that, if we refuse to carry out the contract, we shall dissolve the Union, and run the risk of the horrors of civil war; for no matter what the Constitution may require-no matter what may be the pledge given to the South-no matter what may be the consequences, if the slave-hunters are not permitted any longer to seize their trembling fugitives on our soil-while the people of this State consent to participate in the re-enï¿½slavement of the fleeing slave, they are a Commonwealth of kidnappers.
Resolved, That it is the first religious duty of the people of Massachusetts to put an end to slave-hunting on their soil, without delay, come what may, and at whatever cost; and, therefore, in the performance of this duty, they should promptly sign and circulate the petition to the next Legislature, demanding of their representatives officially to withdraw the sanction of the State so long given to the perpetration of this horrible crime, and to decree that, as soon as any fugitive slave shall enter the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, his chains shall fall asunder, and he stand erect as a man and a brother.
Resolved, That in the refusal of the last Legislature to pass such a decree, though besought to do so by a great multitude of petitioners, representing all classes in society, a great sin was committed; nevertheless, we cannot refrain from warmly commending the large minority, (composed exclusively of Republicans,) in the House of Representatives, who stood their ground so unflinchingly against the leading influences of their party, and voted to abolish slave-hunting in this Commonwealth, independent of all party considerations; nor can we withhold the expression of our earnest hope, that no man who voted in the majority will again be permitted to hold a seat in the Legislature, or any office in the gift of the people, until he proves himself worthy of confidence and respect.
Resolved, That it is with inexpressible delight we have the assurance of the restoration of our beloved friend and eloquent coadjutor, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., of England, to such a degree of convalescence from along, distressing, paralyzing illness, as to enable him to participate in the reform meetings now being held in every part of the kingdom, and with characteristic seal and devotion to exert all his powers in behalf of the cause of freedom and humanity; and with one heart and voice we send our warmest greetings and congratulations to him across the Atlantic, and bestow upon him our heartfelt benediction-assuring him that we vividly and gratefully remember tie invaluable services which he rendered to the cause of the slave when heroically perilling his life in this country in the darkest hours of the Anti-Slavery struggle; and that we need no formal assurance on his part, that never will he allow any opportunity to pass, without vindicating the character of American Abolitionists from the foul aspersions cast upon them by those whose bigotry is paramount to their love of humanity, and whose feelings are inclined to the side of the oppressor, rather than to break the fetters of the oppressed.
C. C. BURLEIGH then made a speech, mainly in refutation of Mr. Foster's remarks and position. He denied that the Anti-Slavery Society had fellowshipped the Republican party; on the contrary, they agreed with him that it was in a wrong position, and compromising in spirit. Yet he was free to say that the Republicans were generally sincere in their efforts to prevent the extension of slavery, and to take the government out of the hands of the slave oligarchy; and that the success of the party, to that extent, must advance the anti-slavery cause. Of the progress of the cause, he had no doubt whatever.
S. MITCHELL, of Maine, made a brief speech in an attempt to show that, in order to free the slave, we must free ourselves of all bonds to all governments, sects or societies.
Rev. THOMAS H. JONES, formerly a slave in South Carolina, said that slavery was a terrible thing, a gigantic wickedness, that he hated; for he had felt it, and knew it to be what John Wesley had called it, ï¿½The sum of all villanies.' He was devoted to the dissemination of truth on this question, and he meant to live in it, and do for it, till slavery was abolished, or he died a martyr to liberty. This cause would triumph ultimately, for it was of God, and must prevail.
Mr. Garrison he regarded as a true friend of the slave, and for years, and ever since he had known him, he had so recognized him; and he always made, that proclamation wherever he went, in every meetinghouse he entered, and he entered a good many. Many told him that he was not safe here, and should go to Canada; but he meant to stay, and hoped to stay safely; but if he perished, he was willing to be a martyr.
Mr. Jones then continued, in a strain of native eloquence, to narrate, with comments, some portions of his experience in ï¿½praying with his legs' in his escape from slavery.
The Resolutions before the Convention were then taken up.
The Resolution on Dr. Cheever was passed, with a few dissenting votes.
The series upon Dissolution was then adopted- one voice only being heard in the negative.
The Resolution relating to George Thompson was unanimously adopted.
The series upon Slave-hunting in Massachusetts, and upon the Petition against Slave-hunting, was adopted unanimously.
The resolutions offered by Stephen S. Foster were then adopted, 22 to 17. 
Adjourned to half-past 7 o'clock.

EVENING.
The President in the chair. 
The anti-slavery song was sung-
'Bring from the South your minions.'
The President referred to the fact that Rev. James Freeman Clarke,-a good anti-slavery friend of ours, and often on our platform,-had to-day been chosen the Secretary of the Unitarian Association. This he regarded as one of the straws which show how the current of popular opinion is setting.
The Convention was then addressed by W. L. Garrison, J. A. Howland, E. H. Hey wood, S. S. Foster, Wendell Phillips.
<c04>
Mr. Garrison did not think it necessary to answer the charges made against the Anti-Slavery Society, but would simply say they were all false, unjust, and entirely uncalled-for. The Anti-Slavery cause had never gone back, never wavered. The Republican party was not claimed as a party designed to abolish slavery, and no Anti-Slavery man supposed that it was, yet it was true, as a side issue, no person dared at the South avow himself as friendly to it, nor could any Republican find safety or favor there. To compare such a party with one that avowedly sustains slavery and is sustained by the slave power, is manifestly unjust. The Old Bay State was clearly the Republican State, and it contained within it the greatest amount of intelligence and of disunion sentiment. It could not be said that the Anti-Slavery sentiment was due to the Democratic party, but the sentiment had made the Republican party. Under the old Whig party, so long as that party remained intact, North and South, the Anti- Slavery element in it did not cause a ripple at the South.
Then the struggle for the freedom of the territories took place-the Whig party went down, and the Republican party which succeeded it gallantly beat back the invaders of freedom, having divided the North from the South politically-the first instance of the kind since the formation of the government. It had virtually dissolved the Union-at least to that extent -although the party did not acknowledge the fact.
In reference to Dr. Cheever, Mr. Garrison thought he was bearing some highly effective testimonies, and exhibiting a good deal of moral courage and endurance; yet he blamed him for not being as consistent and vigilant in anti-slavery matters as he was in heresy hunting. In regard to an abstract theological dogma, he was not only swift to condemn, but also to execute judgment, to enforce discipline, and to withdraw Christian fellowship, while in regard to the sin of all sins, slavery, he resorted neither to excision nor secession, but was disposed to hold on, as in the case of the American Tract Society, for the purpose of having ï¿½another fight.' To be consistent, he should make the pro-slavery evangelical church and its auxiliaries walk overboard.
On motion of Mr. Holden, of Lynn, seconded by Mr. Garrison, the resolutions of Mr. Foster, adopted this afternoon by a small vote, were reconsidered, 44 to 5.
Mr. PHILLIPS, on taking the platform, after referring to the discussion that had preceded, said:-
Allow one word more in regard to the present condition of things in the Commonwealth. I have the pleasure to say, to any one who has not already heard it, that those two men-at least they have that resemblance to humanity, that temptation makes them rascals, and rum makes them drunk, (laughter)-I mean that captain and mate who sent a negro back to Norfolk on the 8th day of May, were to-day brought before Judge Russell, and put under bonds of $4000, to appear before the majesty of Massachusetts law, to show why they kidnapped a man in the blue waters of Massachusetts Bay. (Loud applause.) We shall see how good Massachusetts law is in showing such men that rascality costs more than good conduct. That captain might have had to pay a thousand dollars in Norfolk, Virginia, if he had not carried back that man. Let us cast up the account on the ledger. He paid $500 to Capt. Bacon, to carry the man back. If he ever gets into the clutches of a Massachusetts jury, he will pay $1000 fine. Before he reaches that end, however, he must go through the gauntlet of two or three hunker attorneys-I believe the London phrase is-sharks! (Laughter.) They will make him pay some $1000 or $1500 more. If he does not pay the fine, he has got to go into the jail of Massachusetts for a year. We must not put that down as a loss; he will get into quite respectable company when he gets there (laughter and applause); and if he does not go there, he will go into the State prison for any time short of ten years. In that case, you will hear our friend, John A. Andrew, moving for a habeas corpus before Judge Shaw, at the instance of some murderer confined in the prison, on the ground that cruel and unusual punishments are not constitutional, and he has been put into a cell next to that of a brutal kidnapper from Cape Cod. (Loud cheering.) At any rate, we will try what vigor there is in Massachusetts law to appeal to that only muscle which a Cape Cod captain of this stripe has,-his money,-and show him that it would have been a paying business if he had saved that man, instead of sacrificing him. Until we get a Church and a moral sense to create hearts that respond to humanity, we must make this base and lower appeal to the self-interest of certain parties in the Commonwealth. I would rather see that Capt. Crowell, of the brig Roberson, in the State Prison for seven-years, for the crime of having sent back a negro from the blue waters of the Bay that laves Cape Cod on its southern side, than forty Wilsons in the Senate, or a hundred Sumners in the Presidential chair; for when Massachusetts shall do that, South Carolina will hush her babies with the name of Massachusetts. I want a better triumph than a Massachusetts Senator; I want a Massachusetts sinner in our State Prison. (Applause.) Yes, I stood here this afternoon, and if I had not been unwilling to interrupt the speaker, I should have moved three cheers for Old England, when that colored man Jones told us that, as he was paddling his craft from the pursuing boatmen, he caught sight of the English jack. ï¿½I knew it,' he said. Of course he knew it; he knew nothing else. He had not learned any thing but the shape of the cross. Is it not worth living and dying for, worth all the Hampdens and Sydneys, Vanes and Miltons for a thousand years, to build up a beaming flag that, whenever the eye of the oppressed sees it, in any quarter of the globe, he clasps it as binding him to the throne of God, and feels safe under its folds? (Loud applause.) I want the Massachusetts flag to be just such an one, that every bondman in the Carolinas, if he know nothing more, shall know the mailed arm of the State, and when he sees it, no matter where, no matter what power there is about it, no matter how threatening the storm on men's faces, he will feel that if a man but places his foot under the broad banner of the old infidel Commonwealth of Massachusetts, he it certain to be safe. (Prolonged cheering.) That will be a country to be loved; that will be a country for another Cowper to sing, in a nobler strain even than he did, the praises of England herself.
Take these men, and teach them the Gospel through the stone walls of the State Prison, and I will make a banner of the red and blue trousers of Capt. Crowell when he comes out, after seven years in the workshop of that Prison, for the crime of having forgotten that a negro was a man, and it will be a nobler banner than Massachusetts would bear, if she carried the motto of Sydney through the battle and the breeze for a thousand years. We have got the matter into the courts. It is possible we may find a Massachusetts jury who will be able to know its duty in this emergency; it is possible we may find on the bench worthy descendants of the Holts on the other side of the water. We will try what pluck there is in law, as we have found none in the Christianity of this Commonwealth. Cape Cod! Shovel her off into the ocean, rather than have her the scene of such outrages as these. Why, had that fugitive slave looked across the sandy Cape, he might have heard the echo of the waves that break on the sad grave of Webster! Whigs of Massachusetts, prove now the claim you make for his memory! He might almost have caught a glimpse of the rising monument at Plymouth. Make it a shelter for fugitives from a direr oppression than the pilgrim ever defied.
I have not time to say more. (Loud calls of ï¿½go on,' go on.') But I think it is a glorious hour. Ten years ago, or more, the same scene was enacted in Boston harbor. You remember that boy. He swam half way to South Boston, then was caught, and John H. Pearson's captain shut him up in the cabin, and
<c05>
took him back to his master. Pearson told it in State street. We had a meeting in Faneuil Hall. John Quincy Adams presided, Stephen C. Phillips made the opening speech, and said this conduct of the Long wharf merchant was a libel on the merchants of Boston. The next day, Bearson met him on State street, and said, ï¿½Take a vote at highï¿½ change, and I will have ten merchants to say I did right, to one man that you can get in State street to call it disgraceful.' Charles Francis Adams said then, ï¿½We will have a grand jury indict these men before the Superior Court, and show Carolina the Christianity of Massachusetts.ï¿½ They called me to the platform to follow him. I was not in the programme. I said, ï¿½I take the liberty to doubt whether you will find in your country a grand! jury with hearts brave enough to lay the little finger of their rebuke on the base merchant of Long wharf.' The case went to the grand jury, but you never heard of it afterwards. John H. Pearson walked State street, and gloried in the indorsement State street had given him. John Quincy Adams went home, having left his testimony that justice was a shadow; but there was no echo in the streets of Boston to his eloquence.
Twelve years have passed away. We have had these meetings. The great incubus of Webster, God has taken off of the Commonwealth's heart, and it begins to beat. They have concealed him in a mass of ugly iron, and the Republicans have forgotten self respect, and given it a place in front of the Capitol, He is dead, and we will ask that his influence may soon die also. Twelve years have passed away, and great hearts have begun to beat. A Cape Cod captain cannot do to-day, I think, (I may be wrong,) what John H. Pearson did twelve yean ago. I think a grand jury will find a court for him; I believe a petit jury will find a verdict. I do not know, but I take a yankee's privilege, and guess. I hope if any course shall take the case up to our Supreme Bench, our old chief will hide that ugly chain which was round the court-house, and beneath which he bowed, -hide the shadow which will everlastingly rest upon his person, and which history will not fail to save with the green laurel, in the last years of his chief justice ship, of a verdict against a kidnapper, with the utmost penalty of the [CTS1]statute, and so crown his judicial life with the Plaudite of the Roman actor, and go out with the gratitude of a million of Massachusetts men. (Loud applause.)
Mr. Garrison, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions: Resolved, That the cause of Equal School Rights,[CTS2]now being contended for in Rhode Island by the colored citizens and their friends, deserves the concentrated and persevering energies of every friend of freedom and education in that State, and is, we believe, destined to be crowned with success, at an early day, through a regenerated public sentiment.
Whereas, thirty estimable, humane and Christian citizens of Ohio have been arrested, put on trial, and a portion of them convicted and sentenced, and the remainder committed to prison until the July term, by the U. S. Government, on the charge of having succored and saved an alleged fugitive slave illegally arrested; therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention expresses its congratulations to those imprisoned martyrs, that they have been found worthy to bear this cross, which shall yet be crowned with glory, and help mightily to redeem the millions pining in bondage.
These resolutions were unanimously adopted.
After which, the Convention adjourned, sine die.
JOHN T. SARGENT, President.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.,
CHARLES K.WHIPPLE, Secretaries.
JOSEPH A.HOWLAND,

LETTER FROM REV. HENRY BLEBY.
BARBADOES, April 20, 1859.
W. L.GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND,-The Liberator has reached me at irregular intervals since my return from the States, together with the Standard, and I have read with profound interest the information given me in their columns concerning the monster evil of your country, and the efforts of those noble spirits who have courage to brave the reproach and scorn of the multitude, in the attempt to get rid of the national guilt and shame of slavery, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. I luxuriated in the reports of the Soiree in the Music Hall at Boston, and the proceedings of the Annual Meeting in Summer street, and it required but a slight effort of the imagination to bring these scenes before me, as they must have appeared to you who were privileged to look upon and take part in them. May God, the hater of all oppression, and the friend of the oppressed, speed your work of faith and labor of love to an early triumph! The cause you are identified with must be ultimately successful, for it is founded in charity, and truth, and righteousness; and I trust that day is not so far distant but that you, my dear sir, who have suffered so much unmerited obloquy and persecution, will take part in celebrating the final overthrow, in America, of the most atrocious system of cruelty and wrong with which our world has ever been cursed.
I send $10, as a small contribution to the funds of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
In all my congregations, I have taken an opportunity of speaking upon American slavery; and recently, at a public meeting, with the Governor, Mr. Hincks, in the chair, I spoke of the good service which his letter had done in strengthening the hands of the friends of the colorod race, and refuting the false statements of the pro-slavery press concerning the results of emancipation in the West Indies; when Mr. Hincks took the opportunity of re-asserting his conviction, obtained by full and careful investigation of the entire subject, that free labor is immensely more profitable than slavery, both to the master and the laborer; nor is there, I believe, an individual in this island who will venture to call it in question.
Mr. Hincks left Barbadoes, two or three weeks ago, for Canada and the States It is possible he will be in Boston, and perhaps you may be able to obtain his personal testimony on the comparative merits of the two kinds of labor. His official position, as Governor -in-Chief of several of these colonies, gives him facilities for obtaining the most perfect information which few persons can possess.
Since my return, Mr. Prescod, an intelligent colored gentleman, connected with the press in this island, has been returned to the Colonial Legislature as one of the representatives of Bridgetown City. Mr. Prescod was once in the Legislature before, when he exercises a considerable amount of influence. 
On the 19th of last month, we laid the corner stone of the ï¿½New England School,' and it is rapidly advancing to completion. I am making arrangements for the early commencement of ï¿½the Canada School.' I am happy to say, I have the prospect of completing my school-extension scheme on a scale somewhat enlarged since my visit to America, although the Legislature here refused to make a grant in aid. Provision will thus be made for the education of fourteen hundred children, chiefly of the colored race, who will be largely indebted to the friends of liberty on your side of the Atlantic for the substantial aid rendered to them by this movement. I have often called to mind, when looking upon the schools and congregations under my charge, the remark you made at Abington concerning the improved physical appearance of the colored people of these islands since emancipation. It is strictly true. The European type of countenance is becoming so prevalent, that the broad African features are seldom met with, except in those elderly persons who passed the meridian of life under the curse of slavery.
I am happy to see that Miss Remond has commenced her labors in England under such favorable circumstances. England wants information on the subject of American slavery; not communicated by
<c06>
pamphlets or newspapers, for these are not so accessible to the masses as they are in America, but in the form of lectures and public addresses; and I am persuaded that it will not be difficult to awaken the sympathies and enthusiasm of the nation, in opposition to the untold horrors and atrocities of American slavery, as effectually as they were aroused concerning slavery in these colonies twenty-eight years ago.
The assize court for this island closed its quarterly sitting a few days ago, having only twenty-six cases for trial, and none of these of a very serious character. This, for a population of nearly 140,000, seven-eighths of whom are black and colored, does not show a large proportion of crime. I doubt if you would find any English county, or American either, with as large a population, exhibiting a criminal calendar so light. I mention the fact, that if you think it right to do so, you may give it currency, for the information of those who have been deceived into the believe that these emancipated British colonies are rapidly becoming overrun with barbarism and crime.
Please present my kind remembrances to all friends, especially Messrs. Wallcut and Nell. Praying that you may be abundantly sustained and blessed in your philanthropic labors, I am, my dear sir, Very truly, yours HENRY BLEBY.
A SLAVE KIDNAPPING CASE. The Parties held for Trial. Capt Gorham Crowell, of the brig Rolerson, and John Orlando, mate of the same vessel, were arraigned in the Police Court yesterday afternoon, charged with kidnapping a fugitive slave, named Columbus Jones. It appears that the brig sailed from Pensacola, Florida, on the 8th inst., for Boston, Jones having concealed himself in the forecastle without the knowledge of the Captain at the time he left Pensacola. At Hyannis. Capt. Crowell chartered the schooner Elizabeth, Captain Bacon, for the sum of $500, to convey the slave to Norfolk, Va., and from thence to see that he was sent on to Pensacola. The Elizabeth, with the slave on board, subsequently sailed for Norfolk. Capt. Crowell and his mate came to this city, and were arrested on Thursday.
They waived an examination, and were held for trial at Barnstable at the full term of the Supreme Court. The bail of Orlando, who is master of the vessel that brought away the slave, was fixed at $1500, and that of Crowell, who is a part owner, at $2500. They found the required sureties. Four of the crew of the Rolerson were held in $100 each to appear as witnesses. J. A. Andrew and W. L. Burt appeared for the prosecution, H. A. Scudder, for the prisoners.-Boston Atlas and Bee of Friday.
Read the eloquent speech of LANGSTON, on our last page. One of the ï¿½inferior race,' eh?
A CALL FOR A CONVENTION OF THE COLORED CITIZENS OF THE NEW ENGLAND STATES.

FELLOW CITIZENS:
We issue this call to invite you to attend a Convention to be held in the City of Boston, commencing at 10 o'clock, on Monday, the 1st day of August, 1859. The primary object we have in view is, to take into consideration the Moral, Social, and Political elevation of those with whom we are identified, by complexion and condition, in the New England and other States.
In all, except five of the Eastern States, the colored citizens are deprived of the privilege of voting on equal terms with the whites.
Free suffrage is the basis of a free government, the safeguard of a free people, the strength of the strong, the defence of the weak, a powerful auxiliary to respectability, wealth and usefulness; and just in proportion as men are deprived of this, they are shorn of their strength, and are subject to poverty, disgrace and abuse.
We are convinced, fellow citizens, that not only our political, but our depressed condition in all other respects in the Free States, is owing in a great degree to the fact, that we are politically weak, not possessing the unrestricted use of the elective franchise. The national body politic see in us nothing to fear, and no favors to court.
We therefore urge upon colored men in all sections of New England, to evince their self-respect and love of freedom in efforts to promote their moral, social and political elevation, by assembling at the above time,-a day consecrated by the signal and successful example of Great Britain emancipating 800,000 men, women, and children, in her West India colonies, and hence eminently suggestive to us to strive in securing equality to the half free colored citizens of the Northern States, and thus hasten the day of full emancipation to the millions yet groaning in the Southern prison-house of our country.
We cordially invite our brethren from New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the far West, to meet with us, that the cause of our several grievances may be discussed, and the remedy sought.
With the exception of Connecticut, the New England States have magnanimously acknowledged our political rights, and great progress has been made in our moral and social elevation within the past twenty-five years. But let us, fellow citizens, extend the words of encouragement to our brethren struggling in other States, until the rights of colored Americans shall be granted and respected everywhere.
This call is issued by authority of a public meeting held at Bethel Church, Boston, Tuesday, May 3, 1859.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, 
LEWIS HAYDEN, 
WILLIAM C. NELL,
JEREMIAH HARVEY,
JOHN J. SMITH,
NELSON L. PERKINS,
HENRY WEEDEN,
Committee.
MARK R.DEMORTIE,
GEORGE L.RUFFIN, Secretaries.
WORCESTER COUNTY (SOUTH) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A regular quarterly meeting of the Worcester County, South Division, Anti-Slavery Society will be held in MILLVILLE and BLACKSTONE, on Sunday, June 12th. The meeting will commence at the Wesleyan meeting-house, in Millville, at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M., and be continued at Blackstone Town Hall, at 2 and 5 o'clock, P. M. 
Among the speakers expected to be present are. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ADIN BALLOU, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., and others. And all friends of freedom are invited to attend.
EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, President.
WILLIAM A. WILSON, Secretary.
LECTURE BY DR. ROCK.-Dr. JOHN S. ROCK, of this city, will lecture in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac street, on Monday evening next, June 6th, at 8 o'clock. Subject: ï¿½The voyage of an American outlaw.

E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on slavery, at Concord, Mass., on Sunday evening next, June 5th.
COLORED BOYS want chances to learn trades-one to be a sign painter, the other a piano forte painter.
Colored Mechanics went employment-one as ship caulker, another as plasterer.
Northern white mechanics opposed to the Dred Scott Decision can here show their faith by their works in opening their shops to these colored American men and boys.
Apply to WM. C. NELL,
June 3 21 Cornhill.
LECTURES ON MAN.
MESSRS. FOWLER & WELLS, of New York, announce a course of LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGY, to be given by Prof. L. N. FOWLER, of their establishment, at

MERCANTILE HALL,
 Boston, commencing on FRIDAY EVENING, June 3d, and continuing

SIX EVENINGS.
Admittance-First Lecture free-to the others, 15 cts. Tickets for the Course, to be had at the Bookstores, 50 cents.
Public examinations at the close of each Lecture. Private examinations daily, at 142 Washington street. June 3.
THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL FOR JUNE.-CONTENTS: Robert Burns, with Portrait and Sketch of Character-Phrenology in Church-Advice to Young Men Progress of Mind-Major Edward W. Serrell-Charles F. Hovey, Portrait, Biography, and Phrenological Character- How Temperaments may be Changed, etc. etc., with other interesting matter. Terms only $1 00 a year.
Published by

FOWLER & WELLS,
May be ordered from D. P. BUTLER, 142 Washington street, Boston. 
June 3
[CTS1]
[CTS2]
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
LESSONS FROM NATURE.
SUMMER.
THE TREES.
Dark and rich, in summer glory,
Trees, your leaves are in their prime;
Let us listen to their story 
Of this glorious summer time;
Of their gradual awaking, 
And the songs the small birds sing,
When the sun, through grey mists breaking, 
Seems from out the east to spring;
Of the myriad summer flowers,
Of their queen, the regal rose; 
Of the fragrant woodbine bowers,.
Of the warm day's balmy close;
Of those sights, and sounds of wonder, 
The swift lightning's dazzling flash,
And the loud, deep pealing thunder, 
And the hailstones' rattling crash.
Oh, ye trees, the summer story 
Of your leaves, in their rich prime,
Tells us of God's gentlest glory, 
Tells us of His might sublime.

THE BROOKS.
Brooks! through summer meadows flowing,
In whose depths the troutlet plays, 
What the page your books, are showing?
What the lines -whereon we gaze? 
Though, O brooks, in scantier measure
Flow your summer waves along,
Still we read with grateful pleasure
In each wave a tuneful song.
Through the ripened meadows streaming,
Where so deep the rich grass stands, 
Hot the mid-day sun is beaming
On the weary mower bands. 
Under shady hawthorn bushes,
Where old oaks their thick boughs wave, 
Cattle, amid sledge and rashes,
Glad your cool refreshment crave.
As ye flow through cornfields bending
With their full and ripening ears, 
Brooks, ye teach us youth is tending
To life's summer-harvest years; 
And one page of fairest beauty,
The white water-lily's hue, 
Bids us by the laws of duty
Keep our hearts unsullied too.

THE ROCKS.
What the sermons that ye preach us,
Rocks, that front the summer sun?
What the lessons that ye teach us, 
As the hours their courses run?
‘Secst thou not that ruined tower,
Built by men of olden time, 
Who their blood-cemented power
Raised by strife, and war, and crime? 
Turn, then, to that quiet dwelling,
Emblem of the peace within; 
Each a tale, how different, telling;
Home and peace, and strife and sin.
Long before their wattled bowers
Your unskilled forefathers made, 
Even before, ’mong Eden's flowers,
Hand in hand, the first pair strayed, 
When the land, and air, and ocean,
Fire, and flood, God's might displayed, 
In some wonderful commotion
Were the stones that built them made.
'God, your Father, gives men power, 
Gives earth's stones a home to build;
And a higher, nobler dower, 
Minds with wisdom to be filled.'

ALL ARE GOOD.
Summer trees, so graceful waving, 
Summer's cool and shaded brooks, 
Rocks, the summer's hot sun braving,
Good ye are, God's sermon books.
Tenterden, (England.) .JANE ASHBY.

From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
TO THE MEMORY OF CHARLES F. HOVEY. 
Our friend beloved, with whom we went 
Along life's hot and dusty way, 
With cheerful hearts for many a day, 
Unto a distant land is sent.
We know that with a loving hand
God never yet hath ceased to give, 
And that some other one may live
Within that vacant place to stand.
But though we know that this is true, 
We cannot other do than fear: 
Upon thy hand I drop this tear,
Brave friend! as now I say adieu.
And though God's universe is grand 
And vast, yet still we do believe 
(Nor, therefore, will too greatly grieve)
That we once more shall clasp thy hand. 
Pennsylvania, 16th May, 1859. H. W. G.

OUR IDOL. 
Close the door lightly,
Bridle the breath, 
Our little earth-angel
Is talking with Death; 
Gently he woes her,
She wishes to stay, 
His arms are about her-
He bears her away.
Music comes floating
Down from the dome;
Angels are chanting
The sweet welcome home.
Come, stricken weeper,
Come to the bed,
Gaze on the sleeper-
Our idol is dead!
Smooth out the ringlets,
Close the blue eye-
No wonder such beauty
Was claimed in the sky;
Cross the hands gently
O'er the white breast,
So like a wild spirit
Strayed from the blest;
Bear her out softly,
This idol of ours,
Let her grave-slumbers 
Be ’mid the sweet flowers.
‘The something to a heart like mine
To think of thee as living yet;
To feel that such a light as thine
Could not in utter darkness set.
Less dreary seems the untried way,
Since thou hast left thy footprints there, 
And beams of mournful beauty play
Round the and Angel's sable hair.'
'With silence only as their benediction,
God's angels come 
Where, in the shadow of a great affliction,
The soul sits dumb!
Not upon thee or <illegible> the solemn angel 
Hath evil wrought:
Her funeral anthem is a glad evangel-
The good die not.
God calls our loved ones, but we lose not wholly
What He hath given;
They live on earth, in thought and deed, as truly 
As in his heaven.' <illegible>
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
ELOQUENT SPEECH OF LANGSTON.
CLEVELAND, May 12,1859. 
Court convened at 10 o'clock. The usual opening being passed, and the crowded house stilled, the Court asked:
Mr. Marshal, is the defendant Bushnell in the house?
Mr. RIDDLE.-Mr. Bushnell has been sentenced, your Honor; perhaps your Honor refers to Mr. Langston.
The COURT.-An exchange of names only; yes, sir, Mr. Langston was meant. Mr. Langston, you will stand up, sir. 
Mr. LANGSTON rose.
The COURT.-You also have been tried, Mr. Lang-ston, by a jury, and convicted of a violation of the criminal laws of the United States. Have you or your counsel any thing to say why the sentence of the law should not now be pronounced upon you?
Mr. LANGSTON.-I am for the first time in my life before a court of justice, charged with the violation of law, and am now about to be sentenced. But be­fore receiving that sentence, I propose to say one or two words in regard to the mitigation of that sentence, if it may be so construed. I cannot, of course, and do not expect that which I may say will in any way change your predetermined line of action. I ask no such favor at your hands.
I know that the courts of this country, that the laws of this country, that the governmental machinery of this country, are so constituted as to oppress and outrage colored men, men of my complexion. I cannot then, of course, expect, judging from the past history of the country, any mercy from the laws, from the Constitution, or from the courts of the country.
Some days prior to the 13th of September, 1858, happening to be in Oberlin on a visit, I found the country round about there, and the village itself, filled with alarming rumors as to the fact that slave catchers, kidnappers, negro-stealers, were lying hidden and skulking about, waiting some opportunity to get their bloody hands on some helpless creature to drag him back, or for the first time, into helpless and life-long bondage. These reports becoming current all over that neighborhood, old men and innocent women and children became exceedingly alarm­ed for their safety. It was not uncommon to hear mothers say that they dare not send their children to school, to fear they would be caught up and carried of by the way. Some of these people had become free by long and patient toil at night, after working the long, long day for cruel masters, and thus at length getting money enough to buy their liberty. Others had become free by means of the good will of their masters. And there were others who had become free-to their everlasting honor I say it-by the intensest exercise of their own God­ given powers;-by escaping from the plantations of their masters, eluding the blood-thirsty patrols and sentinels so thickly scattered all along their paths, outrunning blood-hounds and horses, swimming given and fording swamps, and reaching at last, through incredible difficulties, what they, in their delusion, supposed to be free soil. These three classes were in Oberlin, trembling alike for their safety, because they well knew their fate should those men-hunters get their hands on them.
In the midst of such, excitement, the 13th day of September was ushered in-a day ever to be remembered in the history of that place, and I presume noless in the history of this Court-on which those men, by lying devices, decoyed into a place where they could get their hands on him-I will not say a slave, for I do not know that-but a man, a brother, who had a right to his liberty under the laws of God, under the laws of Nature, and under the Declaration of American Independence. 
In the midst of all this excitement, the news came to us like a flash of lightning that an actual seizure under and by means of fraudulent pretences had been made!
Being identified with that man by color, by race, by manhood, by sympathies, such as God has implanted in us all, I felt it my duty to go and do what I could toward liberating him. I had been taught by my Revolutionary father-and I say this with all due respect to him-and by his honored associates, that the fundamental doctrine of this government was that all men have a right, to life and liberty; and coming from the Old Dominion, I brought into Ohio those sentiments deeply impressed upon my heart, I went to Wellington, and hearing from the parties themselves by what authority the boy was held in custody, I conceived, from what little knowledge I had of law, that they had no right to hold him. And as your Honor has repeatedly laid down the law in this Court, a man is free until he is proven to be legally restrained of his liberty, I believed that, upon that principle of law, those men were bound to take their prisoner before the very first magistrate they found, and there establish the facts set forth in their warrant; and that until they did this, every man should presume that their claim was unfounded, and to institute such proceedings for the purpose of securing an investigation as they might find warranted by the laws of this State. Now, sir, if that is not the plain, common sense and correct view of the law, then I have been misled both by your Honor, and by the prevalent received opinion.
It is said that they bad a warrant. Why then should they not establish its validity before the proper officers? And I stand here to-day, sir, to say that with an exception of which I shall soon speak, to procure such a lawful investigation of the authority under which they claimed- to act, was the part I took in that day's proceedings, and the only part. I supposed it to be my duty as a citizen of Ohio-excuse me for saying that, sir-as an outlaw of the United States, (much sensation,) to do what I could to secure at least this form of justice to my brother whose liberty was in peril. Whatever more than that has been, sworn to on this trial, as act of mine, is false, ridiculously false. When I found these men refusing to go, according to the law, as I apprehended it, and subject their claim to an official inspection, and that nothing short of a habeas corpus would oblige such an inspection, I was willing to go even thus far, supposing in that county a Sheriff might, perhaps, be found with nerve enough to serve it. In this I again failed. Nothing then was left to me, nothing to the boy in custody, but the confirmation of my first belief that the pretended authority was worthless, and the employment of those means of liberation which belong to us. With regard to the part I took in the forcible rescue which followed, I have nothing to say, further than I have already said. The evidence is before you. It is alleged that I said,’ We will have him anyhow.' This I NEVER said. I did say to Mr. Lowe, what I honestly believed to be the truth, that the crowd were very much excited, many of them averse to longer delay, and bent upon a rescue at all hazards; and that he being an old acquaintance and friend of mine, I was anxious to extricate him from the dangerous position hebe occupied, and therefore advised that he urge Jennings to give the boy up. Further than this I did not say, either to him or any one else. The law under which I am arraigned is an unjust one, one made to crush the colored man, and one that outrages every feeling of humanity, as well as every rule of Right. I have nothing to do with its constitutionality; about that, I care but little. I have often heard it said by learned and good men that it was unconstitutional; I remember the ex­citement that: prevailed throughout all the free States when it was passed; and I remember how often it has been said by individuals, conventions, legislatures, and even Judges, that it never could be, never should be, and never was meant to be enforced. I had always believed until the contrary
The following resolutions were reported to and adopted by an indignation meeting held in Cleveland soon after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, Judge Hiram v. Wilson being on the Committee on Resolutions:
1. Resolved, That the passage of the Fugitive Law was an act unauthorized by the Constitution, hostile to every principle of justice and humanity, and, if persevered in, fatal to Human Freedom.
2. Resolved, That the law strikes down some of the dearest principles upon which our fathers predicated their right to assert and maintain their independence, and is characterized by the most tyrannical exercise of power; and that it cannot be sustained without re­pudiating the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence, and the principles upon which all free governments rest. 
3. Resolved, That tyranny consists in the willfully violating, by those in power, of man's natural right to his personal security, personal liberty, and private property; and it matters not whether the act is exercised by one man or a million of men., it is equally un-ust, unrighteous, and destructive of the ends. of all just governments. 
4. Resolved, That -regarding some portions of the Fugitive Law as unconstitutional, and the whole of
<c03>
appeared in the actual institution of proceedings, that the provisions of this odious statute would never be enforced within the bounds of this State.
But I have another reason to offer why I should not be sentenced, and one that I think pertinent to the case. I have not had a trial before a jury of my peers. The common law of England-and you will excuse me for referring to that, since I am but a private citizen-was, that every man should be tried before a jury of men occupying the same position in the social scale with himself; that lords should be tried before a jury of lords; that peers of the realm should be tried before peers of the realm; vassals before vassals, and aliens before aliens; and they must not come from the district where the crime was committed, lest the prejudices of either personal friends or foes should affect the accused. The Constitution of the United States guarantees, not merely to its citizens, but to all persons, a trial. before an impartial jury. I have had no such trial.
The colored man is oppressed by certain uni­versal and deeply fixed prejudices. Those jurors are well known to have shared largely in these prejudices, and I therefore consider that they were neither impartial, nor were they a jury of my peers. And the prejudices which white people have against colored men grow out of the fact that we have, as a people, consented, for two hundred years, to be slaves of the whites. We have been scourged, crush­ed, and cruelly oppressed, and have submitted to it all tamely, meekly, peaceably; I mean as a people, and with rare individual exceptions,-and to-day you see us thus meekly submitting to the penalties of an infamous law. Now the Americans have this feeling, and it is an honorable one, that they will respect those who will rebel at oppression, but despise those who tamely submit to outrage and wrong; and while our people, as a people, submit, they will as a people be despised. Why, they will hardly meet on terms of equality with us in a whiskey shop, in a car, at a table, or even at the altar of God. So thorough and hearty a contempt have they for those who will meekly lie still under the heel of the oppressor. The jury came into the box with that feeling. They knew they had that feeling, and so the Court knows now, and knew then. The gentlemen who prosecuted me, the Court itself, and even the counsel who defended me, have that feeling.
I was tried by a jury who were prejudiced; before a Court that was prejudiced; prosecuted by an officer who was prejudiced; and defended, though ably, by counsel that were prejudiced. And therefore it is, your Honor, that I urge by all that is good and great in manhood, that I should not be subjected to the pains and penalties of this oppressive law, when I have not been tried, either by a jury of my peers, or by a jury that was impartial.
One word more, sir, and I have done. I went to Wellington, knowing that colored men have no rights in the United States which white men are bound to respect; that the Courts had so decided; that Congress had so enacted; that the people had so decreed.
There is not a spot in this wide country, not even by the altars of God, nor in the shadow of the shafts that tell the imperishable fame and glory of the he­roes of the revolution; no, nor in the old Philadel­phia Hall, where any colored man may dare to ask a mercy of a white man. Let me stand in that hall, and tell a United States Marshal that my father was a Revolutionary Soldier; that he served under La­fayette, and fought through the whole war, and that he fought for my freedom as much as for his own; and he would sneer at me, and clutch me with his bloody fingers, and say he has a right to make me a slave! And when I appeal to Congress, they say he has a right to make me a slave; when I appeal to the people, they say he has a right to make me a slave; and when I appeal to your Honor, your Honor says he has a right to make me a slave, and if any man, white or black, seeks an investigation of that claim, they make themselves amenable to the pains and penalties of the Fugitive Slave Act; for BLACK MEN HAVE NO RIGHTS WHICH, WHITE MEN ARE BOUND TO RESPECT. (Great applause.) I, going to Wellington with the full knowledge of all this, knew that if that man was taken to Columbus, he was hopelessly gone, no matter whether he had ever been in slavery before or not. I knew that I was in the same situation myself, and that by the decision of your Honor, if any man whatever were to claim me as his slave, and seize me, and my brother, being a lawyer, should seek to get out a writ of habeas corpus to expose the falsity of the claim, he would be thrust into prison under one provision of the Fugitive Slave Law, for interfering with the man claim­ing to be in pursuit of a fugitive; and I, by the per­jury of;, a solitary wretch, would by another of its provisions be helplessly doomed to life-long bondage, without the possibility of escape.
Some may say that there is no danger of free persons being seized and carried off as slaves. No one need labor under such a delusion. Sir, four of the eight persons who were first carried back under the act of 1850, were afterwards, proved to be free men. They were free persons, but wholly at the mercy of the oath of one man. And but last Sabbath after­noon, a letter came to me from a gentleman in St. Louis, informing me that a young lady who was formerly under my instructions at Columbus, a free person, is now lying in the jail at that place, claimed as the slave of some wretch who never saw her before, and waiting for testimony from relatives at Columbus to establish her freedom. I could stand here by the hour, and relate such instances. In the very nature of the case, they must be constantly occurring. A letter was not long since found upon the person of a counterfeiter when arrested, addressed to him by some Southern gentleman, in which the writer says:
'Go among the niggers; find out their marks and scars; make good descriptions and send to me, and I'll find masters for’em.'
That is the way men are carried’ ’back' to slavery.
But in view of all the facts, I say that, if ever again a man is seized near me, and is about to be carried southward as a slave, before any legal inves­tigation has been had, I shall hold it to be my duty, as I held it that day, to secure for him, if possible, a legal inquiry into the character of the claim by which he is held. And 1 I go further; I say that if it is ad­judged illegal to procure even such an investigation, then we are thrown back upon those last defences of our rights which cannot be taken from us, and which God gave us that we need not be slaves. I ask your Honor, while I say this, to place yourself in my situation, and you will say with me, that if your brother, if your friend, if your wife, if your child, had been seized by men who claimed them as fugitives, and the law of the land forbade you to ask any investigation, and precluded the possibility of any legal protection or redress,-then you will say with me, that you would not only demand the protection of the law, but you would call in your neighbors and your friends, and would ask them to say with you, that these your friends could not be taken into slavery.
And now, I thank you for this leniency, this in­dulgence, in giving a man unjustly condemned, by a tribunal before which he is declared to have no rights, the privilege of speaking in his own behalf. I know that it will do nothing toward mitigating your sentence, but it is a privilege to be allowed to speak, and I thank you for it. I shall submit to the penalty, be it what it may. But I stand up here to say, that if for doing what I did do on that day at Wellington, I am to go in jail six months, and pay a fine of a thousand dollars, according to the Fugitive Slave Law, and such, is the protection the laws of this country afford me, I must take upon myself the responsibility of self-protection; when I come to be claimed by some perjured wretch as his slave, I shall never be taken into slavery. And as in that trying hour I would have others do to me, as I would call upon my friends to help me, as I would call upon you, your Honor, to help me; as I would call upon you [ to the District Attorney] to help me; and upon you, [to Judge Bliss,] and upon you, [ to his counsel,] so help me GOD! I stand here to say that I will do all I can for any man thus seized and held, though the inevitable penalty of six months' imprisonment and one thousand dollars fine for each offence hangs over me! We have all a common humanity, and you all would do,. that; your manhood would require it; and no matter what the laws might be, you would honor yourself for doing it, while your friends and your children to all generations would honor you for doing it, and every good and honest man would say you had down right! (Great and prolonged applause, in spite of the efforts of Court and Marshal.)
it as oppressive, unjust and unrighteous, we deem it the duty of every good citizen to denounce, oppose and RESIST, by all proper meant, the execution of said law, and that we demand its immediate and unconditional repeal, and will not cease to agitate the question, and use all our powers to secure that object, until it is accomplished 
<c04>
The COURT replied:’ Mr. Langston, you, do the Court injustice in saying that nothing you could say would influence the Court in the matter of sentence. I have taken careful cognizance of the testimony in your case, and I find many mitigating circumstances. You, sir, quietly. counsellcd a resort to legal measures rather than to force, for getting possession of the fugitive; and for this and for other reasons, your sentence will be comparatively light. Still it must be remembered that this Court does not make the laws, it merely finds them upon the statute-book, and is bound to enforce them. In consideration of the circumstances in your case, the, sentence of the Court is, that you pay a fine of $100 and costs of suit, be imprisoned in the county jail 20 days; and if for any cause you cannot be confined in the jail of this county, yon will be taken by the Marshal to some other jail in this district.'
After the sentence had been pronounced, Judge S. J. ANDREWS addressed the Court in behalf of Mathew DoWolf, Abner Loveland, and Lorin Wads­worth, in each of which cases he had been instructed to enter nolle contendere.
Judge Andrews remarked, that while they wished, to enter this plea, they did not wish to be understood as confessing that they have knowingly violated the laws, and they wished such to be made a part of the record which noted the withdrawal of their plea of not guilty.
He further remarked that they had long been res­idents of Lorain County, that they were law-abiding men, that they were accidentally connected with the rescue, that they went to Wellington village to help their neighbors who were suffering from fire, that while there in the midst of an intense excitement which would naturally arise on such an occasion in a small Tillage, The report was made that a justice had issued a warrant to arrest persons supposed ille- gally to have in custody a negro man; that they mingled in the crowd, and talked to the crowd, and to a certain extent acted with the crowd in endeavoring to ascertain whether the man was legally in custody or not. They supposed they had a right to in­quire into the matter, but as soon as they found that the negro was legally held, they desisted. They did not intend to over-step the limits of the law.
They may have and no doubt have gone beyond the limits, and technically violated the law, but he was persuaded that it was unintentional.
Good men differ as to the proper course to pursue in regard to obedience to the Fugitive Slave Law, but' these men had no sympathy with those who would openly violate the law, and resist it even-to blood. They thought such notions and sentiments belonged to a school of a later date than the one in which they were raised.
They had no conception of a worse state of society than that where the decisions of the highest Court should be disregarded, and every man become a law unto himself. They held themselves bound to obey the law, and to defer to it whether it be right or wrong. They do not concern themselves about the constitutionality of an enactment, and have no sympathy with that spirit which would bring the State and Federal authorities into collision, and ultimately tend to a dissolution of the Union. They believed that laws must be reformed, if they were wrong, by popular opinion expressed through the Courts of the law. They sympathize with slaves, but hold to the enforcement of law.
The Court having heard the remarks of Judge Andrews, accepted the plea of the defendants, and sentenced them to a fine of $20 and costs each, and to twenty-four hours' imprisonment.
Court then adjourned to Saturday morning.

From the Cleveland Leader.
'SONS OF LIBERTY!’-REMARKS OF MR.
GIDDINGS.
At the meeting of the people in Jefferson on the 7th, favorable to immediate and energetic action in reference to the trials pending before the U. S. District Court of Northern Ohio, for offences under the Fugitive Slave Act, the Hon. JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS introduced a constitution for the Order of the’ Sons of Liberty’ revived, of which Order he gave the following historical sketch: 
It was important in times like the present, that we should look to precedents, to the action of our Revolutionary ancestors, men immortalized in history: their conduct would furnish safe rules for us to follow under like circumstances. They passed through scenes like these with which we are now surrounded, similar in principle, but differing widely in degree. I refer to the’ Stamp Act,' when an attempt was made to tax the colonists by compelling the people to buy stamped paper of the government. It was an encroachment upon their rights of property; but bore no comparison to the outrage upon liberty, inflicted by this enactment; yet it was an encroachment upon their rights, an attempt to tax them without permitting them to be represented in Parliament. The Fugitive Law taxes us for purposes which we hold in abhorrence, in utter detesta­tion. The compelling people of Ashtabula county to pay the expenses of seizing and carrying “slaves from Ohio to Virginia and North Carolina, is a thousand times more revolting than to pay the same amount to support a government in Germany. But this tax to carry back slaves is nothing compared to that provision which shocks our sensibilities at seeing a fellow-man robbed of his liberty, ourselves compelled to aid in the perpetration of the crime, made to rivet the iron upon his limbs, and hand him over to his tormentors, and compel him to drag out a miserable existence, a thousand times more horrible than death itself. 
But our fathers would not submit to the Stamp Act: shall we submit to the despotism of this slave act? We are greatly embarrassed in opposing this obnoxious law. So were they. There is a strong feeling, a deep hostility to this act. A gentleman from Portage county the other day, told me there ware two thousand men ready to march, or do any thing else to relieve the prisoners at Cleveland, and put down this insult to our moral sensibilities; and such is the case here, and in all the counties of the Reserve. The popular hearts swell with indignation; each individual feels and expresses it; but this feeling avails little until concentrated, united, and guided in some well-defined channel of operation.
Such was the case in New England in 1765. Our fathers were excited and indignant. They felt their rights were outraged. The’ Stamp Act' had passed. Jared Ingersol, of New Haven, happened at that time to be in London. He sought and obtained the appointment of stamp master. He landed at Boston on his return, and bore himself as became a supercilious office-holder. Soon as he had reached New Haven, a town meeting was called, as has been done here this evening. They passed resolutions re­questing him to. resign. Norwich, New London, and Wethersfield did the same; he refused. He probably felt as Judge Wilson, Attorney General Bolden, and Marshal Johnson now feel, that the government is on their side, and they held the people in contempt. So said Ingersol. Our fathers saw the necessity of union, of concentrating the public indignation, the same as we feel it now. 
To effect that object, Dagget and Thurman and other parties conceived and established the order called’ The Sons of Liberty’ It was composed of ardent Whigs: they had no tories among them. Each knew those who belonged to the order. They consulted together and acted together. Comparatively few were willing to unite, and thereby incur danger of treason under British law. Thank God, we have no such fears. But a goodly number united and acted. 
lugersol started from New Haven to go to Hartford at the convening of the Legislature. As he drew near to Wethersfield, he met four men riding two abreast, each holding a staff newly cut from the forest, peeled, and looking white. It was one of the insignia of the order, which Ingersol did not understand. Soon after, he met sixteen others riding two abreast, each with his peeled staff. They opened to the right and left, and Ingersol passed on his way. Soon after, he met five hundred, preceded by three trumpeters, and two officers in military dress. They opened right and left, Ingersol passed on to the centre, when they wheeled their horses, and rode to the village with Ingersol in their midst. Then they halted, and ordered him to dismount. ’The Sons of Liberty' also dismounting, gathered around him, and the leader informed him that he must then and there resign his office. I will wait the orders of government,' said Ingersol. To which the leader responded in language worthy a’ Son of Liberty, ‘Here is the government!' said he. The office­holder was astounded. He supposed that a feeble old man who sat on the throne at Westminster with a bauble on his head; and a scepter of less potency than a peeled cane in his hand, constituted the government. Such, too, is the view of office-holder at this day. They believe that James Buchanan is the government! they think, at least, he and his cabinet, and the Supreme Court, and Congress, constitute the government. Poor mistaken souls!'
<c05>
They are all our servants: I have often told them, in the language of the Sons of Liberty, Here is the government'-that the people are the depositaries of power! Here resides the sovereignty of the nation. Each individual constitutes a competent part of the government. I would that freemen should understand their dignity and power. The government is in our hands, and we are <illegible> in the hands of the government. Those farmers of Weathers field had thought of this matter. They were conscious of their dignity; and Ingersol then saw their powers, ’If I refuse, what will follow?' said he. YOUR FATE!' said the leader of the patriots. These two monosyllables reached his heart. It was the deter­ mined language of patriots. These words should reach the heart of Buchanan and every servile office holder, who attempts to enforce the fugitive law. I would send these words thrilling through the heart of every slave-catcher, commissioned by James Buchanan, or acting upon the impulse of the Prince of Slaveholders. I would say to them, if you attempt to enslave a man here on this Western Reserve, our fate' will follow. As in Congress, I say to­ night, if the slave-catcher pollutes my threshold with his for of steps, I will strike him down: be he Slaveholder or Deputy Marshal, his fate shall follow! These two words will constitute one of the appropriate maxims for’ The Sons of Liberty’ whom I propose to organize to-night.
When Ingersol heard them, a new world seemed to open up to his frightened imagination. ’The cause,' said he,’ is not worth dying for’-language which many slave-catching doughfaces and Deputy Marshals of our State would utter, if the people, or one-tenth part of the people would firmly and kindly whisper ’your fate' in their ears ‘I resign, 'said Ingersol. ’Swear to it,' said the leader. Ingersol remonstrated. Then, said the leader, shout’ Liberty and Property,' three times; and Ingersol opened his profane lips, and for the first time in his life shouted,’ Liberty and Property,' ‘Liberty and Property,' ‘LIBERTY AND PROPERTY!' It should be borne in mind, that the mother government had not then so persecuted the colonists as to rob any of their lives. But <illegible> years afterwards, when the people in King street, Boston, were fired upon by the King's troops, and five of them killed, their motto was then amended by adding to it the word ‘life,’ so that from 1770,’ life, liberty and property’ became their motto, and will, I trust, be ours in coming time.
But Ingersol went to Hartford in company with the ‘Sons of Liberty,’ and there announced his resignation to the proper authorities, and retired to private life. The Order rapidly spread throughout New England. Patriots in every town, village, hamlet, and school district united with it. They had no tories in their ranks; public sentiment was guided in its proper channels. Its influence constrained the office-holders to send back to England the stamped paper forwarded to them, and to resign their offices. The King and Parliament opened their eyes to the great truth, that, the people constituted a power superior to themselves, and they repealed the stamp act. Gentlemen, let the true Sons of Liberty’ in Ashtabula county manifest the same firmness exhibited at Wethersfield in 1765, and James Buchanan and his satraps would never be seen chasing slaves in Ohio, nor would they persecute our citizens.
The Order was kept up; and when the odious tax on tea was forced upon the pioneers, and the two ships loaded with it lay in Boston harbor in 1773, they again sat in council, and determined on their course. At nightfall, in disguise, they went on board, and, using the Atlantic ocean for a tea-pot, they got up the celebrated tea-party to which our friend (Mr. Simonds) alluded. This was the second and last exercise of force by the’ Sons of Liberty.' Their great usefulness consisted in giving direction to the popular mind which guided the provincial legislatures, and found an equally emphatic expression in Congress.
John Adams informs us that a declaration from the ‘Sons of Liberty’ in Pennsylvania met him in New Jersey in 1776, when on his way to Congress. Their principal object was to induce him so to arrange matters as to have Mr. Jefferson write the Declaration of Independence,-a measure which Mr. Adams had brought forward and advocated. They thought by so doing they would secure the influence of Virginia and other Southern States. I now think to the proposition wrong; that Mr. Adams should have pursued his own course, and received the glory which he thus surrendered to another. But he being one of the Order, submitted to their advice, and Jefferson, feeling the import of this phrase, adopted the natural rights of man to life, liberty, and property, as the basis of the new government. He. however, changed the word property,' to that of the pursuit of happiness,' as a better mode of expression. 
But so much had the people become attached to this maxim that they adopted it into the Constitution, which provides that’ no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.' This declaration, in the words used by the Sons of Liberty’ in 1770, and incorporated into the Constitution, I suggest as the proper basis of the Order which I now propose to revive. I hope that our friends in other counties and towns may unite in reviving this organization, and concentrat­ ing the popular mind upon the importance of maintaining the right of every human being to life, liberty, and property, until slave-catchers and slave­ catching office-holders shall he driven from the Reserve, from the State, from the Union, FROM THE WORLD.
Mr. Giddings then presented the Constitution.

CONSTITUTION OF THE SONS OF LIBERTY. 
Whereas, the authority of Britain over her American provinces was first set at defiance by an association of patriots called ‘The Sons of Liberty.' who by their persons1 efforts concentrated the influence and gave direction to the popular voice, which is always powerful when guided by discretion and judgment: And whereas, the party that now controls the administration of the Federal Government has waged a cruel war against human nature, establishing an execrable commerce in the souls and bodies of men, a commerce so cruel that its victims often prefer death by their own hands rather than the degradation, the horrors to which it consigns them; employing the army and navy to butcher defenceless women and children on account of their love of liberty; enacting a fugitive law so barbarous that the tender mother is driven to the terrible alternative of slaying her own children rather than see them subjected to its cruelties; overruling the laws and trampling upon the rights of our State; protecting felons indicted in our courts; extending immunity to murderers who shed the blood of their fellow-men upon our soil; arresting, imprisoning and prosecuting our citizens for the exercise of virtues which constitute the true glory of our revolutionary ancestors:
Now, therefore, in order to reform the administration of our government; to direct its energies to the protection, instead of the destruction of human rights; to put an end to this piratical war, we hereby revive the ancient order of’ THE SONS OF LIBERTY,' recognizing each other, and those who shall hereafter sign this Constitution, by that name; declaring our present purpose and ulterior design to be to inculcate and maintain the duty of human governments to pro­tect human rights; that the violation of those rights by individuals, by officers, or by misacting as a government, constitutes CRIMR.
Appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, we declare that ‘no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without <illegible> process of law, WHEN WE HAVE POWER TO PREVENT IT.
[The foregoing Constitution was then subscribed by nearly one hundred gentlemen, embracing the names of some of the most prominent and respectable citizens in the community.]

GREAT MASS MEETING AT OLEVELAND. 
There was a great gathering of the Freemen of the Reserve, at Cleveland, on the 24th ult. The day was fine, and the enthusiasm of the multitude unbounded. Such a meeting was never before held in Cleveland. The Leader says:
The number of persons present upon the Square to listen to the speakers was at the lowest estimate from 10,000 to 12,000. From the speaker's stand an almost unbroken sea of heads, covered the space all over that section of the Park from the fountain to the fences. The trees, fences, windows, and stem of the Custom House were crowded with interested spectators, the whole forming a congregation equal to several Fourth of July celebrations, with this exception, that here the feeling that called the vast crowd together was a deep and strong love of liberty, and not a fire cracker and firework difference.-It was an earnest and working day-a day to be marked as an epoch-a day to inspire the attend ants with zeal and stern enthusiast for God and the right. The calm and unflinching eye, tone and word of Gov. Chase, the glowing fire of Judge Spaulding, the sarcasm and fearless denunciation of Carter, the
<c06>
humorous and open thrusts of Tilden, the <illegible> rallying notes, the earnest expostulation and thundering anathemas of Giddings, and the bold, manly, energetic counsels, of Hitchcock, Root, Delano Brown, Mahan, Vance, and Wade, all these will not soon be forgotten by the participants in the events of the <illegible> Convention of May 24, 1859. We have had a good meeting, one that we may be proud of as the gathering of the clans of independent freemen, and as such let us ‘sound its praise abroad,’
Hon. J. R. Giddings was President of the meeting, assisted by thirteen Vice Presidents. A series of strong resolutions was reported by John Coon, Esq., Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions, and adopted by a thundering vote. Among the resolutions was one providing for raising a fund, to be called The Fund of Liberty, for the relief of the Oberlin prisoners, any surplus to be devoted to the advancement of the cause of Republicanism.
THE PEOPLE ARE WAKING UP, -Meetings are being held in different parts of the Reserve, and resolutions passed, denouncing the action of the Federal Court and United States officers at Cleveland, for the manner in which the odious fugitive slave law is excepted there upon the citizens of Lorain country. We hope the subject will he discussed at all Republican meetings and gatherings in Ohio, and ring it into the ears of the miserable hounds who are the willing tools of the piratical slave power for the poor pit­tance of a few dollars of blood money. How can Judge Willson, District Attorney Belden, and Marshal Matt. Johnson go to their night's repose, with outs feelings which should pertain to sheep-killing dogs? 
-Springfield (O.) Republic.

THEY WILL DO IT.-Paid Government <illegible> may hunt down panting fugitives, and the people of the North who wish them God speed, and Jeffrey Judges may fine and imprison such good citizens as they can drag into their Federal Courts, but noth­ing can stop the underground trains. The <illegible> Beacon of this week says:
Two fugitives from’ the house of bondage' <illegible> through Akron last week, and made their way to the dominion of Her Britannic Majesty, on the other side of the lake. Several of our citizens incurred the penalties of the Fugitive Slave Act by <illegible> them God speed. 

MEDICAL REFORM.,
That a great change has within a few years been wrought in the practice of medicine, no one will pretend to deny. It is well known that the study and learning which has been for ages lavished <illegible> the use of mineral poisons, as medicines, have failed to answer the reasonable expectations of the public,. The old physicians have abandoned the use of the lancet, and have found it necessary to reduce the quantity of medicine given to perhaps one fifth of their original doses; but, as diminishing the quantity does of improve the quality, such a change can never answer the demands of suffering invalids,
A change was required which should dispense with all poisonous drugs, and substitute a system of innocent medication, which, would <illegible> with nature, and remove diseases, without the risk of injury to the constitution. For the accomplishment of this object, many talented and learned <illegible>have zealously labored, and a great reform has been brought about. Among the champions in this reform, we believe all are willing to yield the <illegible> to Dr. R. Greene, the founder of the “<illegible> Indian Medical Institute.”
Dr. Greene, after studying the various systems of medicine, and finding that they had of the basis of nature, turned his attention to the study of Nature's Laws-spent several years in travels, and received much useful information from these “children of Nature”-the “red men of the forest,”| whose habits and system of medical practice <illegible> assisted him in the development of the system, having nature for its foundation, and science for its space he structure.
About ten years ago, Dr. Greene located in Bos­ton, when the success of his treatment was brought more fully before the public, and his sphere off usefulness enlarged. His Allopathic friends viewed his success, with a jealous eye, and his practice was animadverted upon in one or two of their medical journals, in no very dignified terms. That he was successful in all ordinary disease ordinary diseases was admitted; but they were, slow to believe that he was able to cure Cancers and Scrofulous Human. To convince them and the public of his success, he published facts in regard to cures of such cases, giving the names and residence of such persons who were willing to have their names used, so that any one could be satisfied of their truthfulness. He also preserved specimens of cancers as they were removed, that they might be examined by the doctors, or by the public. Several hundreds of these cancers, some of enormous size, soon accumulated, having been put up in glass jars, where they have since remained on exhibition at his rooms, 36 Broomfield Street., Boston, to which the public have free access.
These incontrovertible evidences of success brought out the press in his favor, and drew around him a large number of friends who were interested in the common cause of humanity, The business at the office so increased that it because necessary to relieve Dr. Greene from the details of his practice, in order to make his services available to a larger portion of those applying for treatment. For this purpose, and by the advice and cooperation of influential citizens, an organization was formed under the name of the “ Boston Indian Medical Institute.” Not that the practice was crude like that of the Indian, but based upon the Indian system, or natural principles, harmomzing with natural laws, and avoiding the use of poisonous drags. Under this organization the Institution has becomes the most popular Medical Asylum in the country, where patients are daily received and successfully treated for all the various ills of the human family. But few people have an adequate idea of the <illegible> of business done at this Institution, or the number of cures effected, although nearly all are familer with the fact of frequent remarkable operations being performed with the most favorable results. Such results are of without their lesson. They speak hope to many suffers, and the basis of such hope is a firm one, for it rests upon experience, and upon facts. 
Consumption has been treated with a success unexpected by the patients and their friends; and the results in numerous cases of Scrofula, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Heart Disease, Dropsy, <illegible> Complaints, Disease of the Stomach, Bowels, and Kidneys, Rheumatism, and various other diseases, give confidence to those conversant with the fact, that cures are effected at this Institution which have baffled medical skill elsewhere.
Facts like these cannot be resisted, and this practice must necessarily take precedence in the minds of the people. 
Many clergymen, editors, and other professional gentlemen, have, visited this Institution, and signified their entire approbation of the system of practice, and expressed a desire that the facts connected with this treatment should be made known to the world.
The Institution, whose Card is here appended, is now placed upon a firm basis, and is an honor to the city of Boston, and one to which her citizens can point with pride, in view of the vast amount of relief it has afforded to sufferers throughout the country, and the confidence with which the invalid may look upon the results of its practice in the future.

BOSTON INDIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
Office 36 Bromfield street, Boston
REV. N. DAY, Pres REV. P. MASON, Vice Pres.
REUREN GRRENE, M. D.,}Physicians.
ISAIAH HUTCHINS, M. D.,
Established for the successful Treatment of <illegible> upon Rational Participles.
The Electro-Chemical Baths, together with Dr. Greene's improved Medication, have been adopted in this Institution, and have exceeded the most sanguine expectations in the removal of a great variety of diseases.
All persons having Cancers, or those afficted with complicated diseases, should avail themselves of the personal attention of the physicians at the Institutes, where proper boarding houses are provided. 
A personal examination of each case is preferable; but all the common forms of discusses, except in aggravated and complicated cases, are successfully treated with medicines which can be sent to any part of the world, with full directions, an a very correct knowledge can be obtained form answers,<illegible>
the questions in the “Indian <illegible>,” a newspaper published by the Institution, a copy of which will be sent free when requested; also, Dr. Greene's “INDIANOFATHY,” or Science of Indian Medicine, may be had at the office for 12 cents, or by mail on the receipt of four postage stamps.
Consultations upon all diseases free of charge at the office or by letter on the reception of a postage stamp. 
All communications should be directed to DR. R. GREENE, 3C Brimfield Street, Boston, Mass.
36 Bromfield street, Boston <illegible>
REFERENCES.
HOU. S. C. Maine, Roston, Mass.: Rev. Edward <illegible> 
Boston, Mass; Rev. Joseph W Tarleton Boston, Mass,; Rev. E. II. Nevin, D. D., Chelsea, Mass; Rev. R.IL Conklin, Prescience, R. L; Rev. charles P. Governor. Medford, Mass,; Rev. Bryan Morse, Groveland, Mass; Rev. John Harriman, <illegible>, N. H.; Dr. J. W. Phelps 68 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass,; J. E. Merrill, Esq., (Webster House,) Boston, Mass; E. R. Phinney, Esq., (Mercantile House,) Boston, Mass,; A. W. Oldham. Esq., Boston, Mass.; Samuel <illegible>, Esq., Lowell, Mass.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS,
21 Cornhill.BOSTON.
