THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz. WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMOND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 26. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 27, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1644.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
MAYOR WIGHTMAN VS. GOV. ANDREW.
The following ridiculous and impudent letter from Mayor Wightman to the President is published in the Philadelphia Inquirer:-
MAYOR’S OFFICE, CITY HALL, BOSTON,
MAY 23d, 1862.
SIR,-I am induced to write you this from a sense of duty, for the purpose of repudiating, in the most emphatic manner, the idea that the Governor of Massachusetts is authorized to speak for the loyal citizens of the State in proposing any conditions in regard to the question of slavery, as affecting a further requisition by you for volunteers. There may, possible, be small sections, or towns, in the commonwealth, where the doctrine of emancipation and arming the slaves is regarded with favor, and might be made an excuse for non-enlistment; but I assure your Excellency that, in Boston, and, I believe, in a large majority of the other cities and towns in the State, the mingling of questions in relation to slavery with the crushing out of the present rebellion, is viewed with the strongest feelings of disapprobation, while the efforts you have made to resist the interpolation of this discordant element, and to restore the Union on the basis of the Constitution, as evinced in your appointment of Governor Johnson and Stanly, your sustaining of General McClellen, and your general conservatism in all the essential matters pertaining to the conduct of the war has given hope and confidence to every Union loving heart in our State.
Notwithstanding the opinions of the Governor, I believe that Massachusetts may be relied upon for any call you may make upon her patriotism in the present emergency, and that her citizens generally have no sympathy with those who are agitating the question of emancipation at this time, and I am confident that if this subject was introduced in conformity with the views of Governor Andrew, it would produce a serious, if not an irreparable, injury to the cause of enlistment.
I beg you, therefore, to make your requisition upon the State of Massachusetts with confidence in the loyalty and devotion of her citizens, and with the assurance that Boston will as cheerfully respond in the future as in the past to any demand of the Government. Trusting that you will continue to be firm and resolute in your endeavors for the restoration and welfare of our common country, and in ignoring all other issues which tend to prevent the accomplishment of this great object, I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, 
JOSEPH M. WIGHTMAN, Mayor.
His Excellency ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, Washington, D. C.

OUR COUNTRY, RIGHT OR WRONG.
The editor of the New York Observer, writing from Columbus, Ohio, where he has been attending the sessions of the (Old School) General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, comments as follows upon the suggestion of Governor Andrew to the Secretary of War, that enlistments in Massachusetts would be discouraged and retarded, if the soldiers understood that they were forbidden to fire into the enemy’s magazine:-
“While we were in session, we received the papers containing the response of the Massachusetts Governor Andrew, to the call for troops. We read it out here in Ohio with shame and deep regret. In the midst of a loyal, patriotic people, who are willing to give their all to their country, it was most humiliating to read from the Governor of the Old Bay State, that if the President would do so and so, and if this, that and the other thing could be done, &c., &c., then his people would come up to the help of the Government! Shame on such patriotism! Away with such half-way patriots when we are at war! What if Governor Tod, of Ohio, should prescribe the conditions on which he would send his troops, and Morgan, of New York, make other conditions, and Curtin, of Pennsylvania, put in his ifs and buts, what would become of the country and the cause? I confess myself ashamed of the position which the Massachusetts Governor takes, and trust that the patriotic press of Boston will utter the indignant sentiment of a misrepresented people. Let us give no quarter to disloyalty, whether it shows its miscreant head in the East or the West, the North or the South. ‘Our country, our whole country,’ is the motto of every right man.”

GOV. STANLY IN NORTH CAROLINA.
NEWBERN, N. C., May 31, 1862. 
The abolitionists are finding considerably more difficulty in making their living under Gov. Stanly than under Gen. Burnside.
Since the arrival of this discreet, conservative and firm-minded man. one week to-day, we have had four successive acts of bold policy, which, if he does nothing else, will do more than repay the government for sending him here.
These acts may be enumerated thus:
First-Closing the schools for the negroes. Never before the arrival of that crazy abolitionist, dubbed with the title of “Doctor” Colyer, was there such a thing heard of as a negro learning to read. The impudence of a woolly-headed urchin running up to a white boy and saying, “Aha, I am learning to read, too,” which is now heard constantly, was never thought of. More than one of our old citizens have been heard to declare, that, if it was not for the military, “the fellow that taught them would have his neck stretched.” Well, all this was brought to a close on Wednesday by Governor Stanly very quietly hinting to Colyer, that there was a law of North Carolina that made such a teacher liable to six months in the State prison; and telling him that it would be a necessity laid upon him as Governor to apply that law to friend Colyer, if complaint should chance to be made against him. The result was “Brother” C. closed his schools, amid many wailings, lamentations, sobbings, rubbings of noses, &c., to say nothing of extra smells and perfumes that evening.
Second-The next good rap the Governor gave this class of abolitionists was to make them return the stolen negroes they were harboring in their houses, and trying to run North. Nicholas Bray, a man of mild and gentlemanly deportment, applied to Governor Stanly for redress, he having lost to darkey tw men-one a very lively looking brunette of rapturous sixteen, for whom a man famous fo his fraternization ideas had offered the nice fat sum of $1500. The Governor at once helped Bray, and told him to take his property wherever he could find it. He did so at once, carrying one home in his barouche, although she feigned sickness, and giving Colyer’s resting-place a good overhauling for the other.
<c02>
That night, however, a party of soldiers from one of the Massachusetts regiments-free love rights men-and true to their principles, went to this poor man’s house, broke open his door, frightened his sensitive wife, because she had heroically assisted her husband in the capture of his property, stole once more his slave girl, set fire to his house and decamped.
The next day, the Governor sent word to all the captains in port, that if they took away a single negro North, their ships, on their return to Newbern, would be confiscated.
That same afternoon, H. H. Helper, who has been a constant hanger on the army ever since its arrival here, and getting his living out of the fat crib of the United States Government, pretending to be on secret service, burning bridges, &c., wrote an impudent letter to the Governor, presuming to criticise his conduct for the before mentioned acts. For this he was very quietly requested to report himself in New York as soon as possible, Dan Messenger, our gallant Provost, giving him an additional quietus in the shape of an extra shot, telling him that if he (Messenger) found him in Newbern after the departure of the next steamer, he would send him to jail, and feed him on tough beef. Helper cleared that afternoon, as did Colyer also; and so your city will have two more pets for Greeley to lubricate.-Correspondence of the New York Herald.

HUNTER’S PROCLAMATION.
It is yet uncertain whether Hunter has, or has not, issued the dangerous proclamation attributed to him; but, however that may be, the Government has no small share of bad fortune in quite a number of its officers. What was General Fremont in Missouri? What is General Jim Lane? What are several others? Let the public derangements these imprudent persons have caused answer. We have always held that the President is not entirely superior to “party influences,” and no one will say that facts to sustain that conviction have not happened. Still, Abraham Lincoln is one of the best Chief Magistrates the Republic ever had; the whole North is with him by reason of his merit; and though his party has had much to do in provoking the rebellion which he is now so energetically putting down, history will vindicate himself as having been one of the most constitutional Presidents the country has produced. His proclamation, counteracting the presumed one of General Hunter, exhibits him to the people in the old resplendent light in which Andrew Jackson more than once appeared. The document is eminently Jacksonian. It speaks so high and so intrepid a regard for the UNION, that Jefferson Davis himself cannot but commend it. There can be no mistake as to its grand constitutional sentiments. These are plainly set down, and Abraham Lincoln declares himself “for the responsibility.” The nation has reason to exult in such a proclamation. It is a new, honest, and powerful pledge to it, that the fundamental laws of the land will suffer no rupture. To be sure, the Abolitionists are horrified by it: but such a thing is a great eulogy on the message, for that herd of fanatics are inveterate rebels to the integrity of the Union. It is not too much to say that this document will dispel more treason in the South than fifty thousand men; for it will convince it that conquest is not the aim of the North, and that he whom it took to be a “nigger-worshipper” is as true a President as the hero of New Orleans himself. We ourselves firmly opposed Mr. Lincoln’s election. This we did in view of his political character, which was a dangerous one; but he has now our support, because the Constitution is his guide.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
We have no refutation for the statement that the Abolitionists have had a bold hand in casting the fires of rebellion among the people of the South. They have ever been a herd of ungovernable and unconscionable fanatics. If they have not taught the right of State secession, they have wickedly propounded that the Constitution is a league with hell; and they have often violated the national laws, out of insane enthusiasm for the black. It is certain, too, that they have desired a complete rupture between the two sections of the country,-on the principle that such a fact would inevitably lead to negro emancipation; and it is undoubted that they are actually using all their means to have the war indefinitely continued, from the hope that slavery it may at last completely destroy. These concessions against Abolitionism we freely make; impeachment founded on them we shall never refuse to urge; against that ism we would this instant commend the rigors of military law-for it is an ism of extreme danger to the Republic, which nothing but iron rule can suppress; and no one who reads our columns can hesitate to acknowledge that this has always been the course of The Pilot. Certainly, the Abolitionists themselves will make no denial of that nature. They have always admitted our antagonism, and it shall not be turned away from them. All this we speak from principle, (!!) without respect either to party or persons.-Ibid.
DISUNIONISTS DEFINED. Hon. Andy Johnson, Military Governor of Tennessee, in a speech at Columbia, on the 2d inst, said:-
“An Abolitionist is a Disunionist. A Disunionist is a Secessionist. A Secessionist is a Disunionist. A Disunionist is an Abolitionist. Therefore a Secessionist is an Abolitionist. There is not a particle of difference between them. Here is the nation tossed and rent almost in twain by these unprincipled and ambitious office-hunters. Now there is a great middle class who lie between these extremes, who must come up and save the Union. The mass of the Southern people are for the Union. The great mass of the Republicans are opposed to the Abolitionists. The body of the people everywhere will prove true to the Union. All this slavery talk is a mere pre-text, whose flimsiness is transparent.” 
THE SOUTHERN SLAVES-What a Federal Officer Says of Them.-Colonel Gibson, of the Forty-ninth Ohio Regiment, recently wrote a letter from Tennessee, from which the following is an extract:
“In this region, every one owns one or more slaves. Here, as elsewhere, where I have been, the slaves are well treated and well provided for. They appear happier, and certainly live and dress better that the poor whites or the free negro of Ohio or the North. They all supposed we were about to liberate them. This lie had been trumpeted in the South and hundreds of honest people besides slaves believed it. But the negro here instinctively dreads the North. They love the South, and are devoted to their masters.
I have witnessed some touching scenes between exiled masters, returned to their homes and their faithful slaves. It is strange how few try to escape or run away. I doubt if twenty have come to the army with which I have been connected since last September. About the farm-houses and in the city, the white children and the black play together like
<c03>
brothers and sisters. It is my deliberate opinion that, in their present state of ignorance, the slaves rather fear than desire emancipation. They only regard their appetites and comforts. They are well housed, well dressed, and well fed. They appear to want no more. These facts constitute no excuse for slavery, but I mention them as tending to show that statesmen had better let the ‘nigger’ alone at present, and address themselves to suppressing this great rebellion.”
“To think of such a cold-blooded and mendacious scribbler being entrusted with a military command, however subordinate, to carry on the war (?) for the suppression of “the slaveholders’ rebellion”! And the army is cursed with multitudes of such.

Selections.
CONFISCATION AND LIBERATION.
SPEECH OF HON. GEORGE W. JULIAN,
Of Indiana, in the U. S. House of Representatives, May 23, 1862.
The House having under consideration the bill to confiscate the property and free from servitude the slaves of rebels-
Mr. JULIAN said:
Mr. SPEAKER: Before closing the debate on the measures of confiscation and liberation now before us, I desire to submit some general observations which I hope may not be regarded as irrelevant to these topics, or wholly unworthy of consideration. I do not propose to discuss these particular measures. I deem it wholly unnecessary. I believe everything has been said, on the one side and on the other, which can be said, and far more than was demanded by an honest search after the truth. Certainly, I shall not argue, at any length, the power of Congress to confiscate the property of rebels. I take it for granted. I have not allowed myself, for a single moment, to regard the question as open to debate, nor do I believe it would ever have been seriously controverted, had it not been for the infectious influence of slavery in giving us false views of the Constitution of the United States. It was ordained “to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.” I take it for granted that our fathers meant to confer, and did confer upon us, by the terms of the Constitution, the power to execute these grand purposes, and made adequate provision for the exercise of that power. I feel entirely safe in indulging this reasonable intendment in their favor; and I hand over to other gentlemen on this floor, and in the other end of the Capitol, the ungracious task of dealing with the Constitution as a cunningly devised scheme for permitting insurectons, conniving at civil war, and rendering treason to the Government safer than loyalty.
Sir, I have little sympathy for any such friends of the Union, and I honor the Constitution too much, and regard the memory of its founders too sacredly, to permit myself thus to trifle with the work of their hands. The Constitution is not a shield for the protection of rebels against the Government, but a sword for smiting them to the earth, and preserving the nation’s life. Every man who has been blessed with a moderate share of common sense, and who really loves his country, will accept this as an obvious truth. Congress has power-
“To declare war; to grant letters of marque and reprisal; to make rules concerning captures on land and water; to raise and support armies; to provide and maintain a navy; to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces; to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions; and to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into effect the foregoing powers.”
Here we find ample and express authority for any and every measure which Congress may see fit to employ, consistently with the law of nations and the usages of war, which fully recognize the power of confiscation. And yet for long, weary months we have been arguing, doubting, hesitating, deprecating.
As to what is called slave property, we have been most fastidiously careful not to harm it. We have seen a lion in our path at every step. We have seemed to play the part of graceless stipendiaries of slaveholding rebels, seeking, by technical subterfuges and the ingenious arts of pensioned attorneys in desperate cases, to shield their precious interests from all possible mischief. So long have we been tugging in the harness of our southern taskmasters, that even this horrid conspiracy of rebel slave-masters cannot wholly divorce us from the idea that slavery and the Constitution are one and inseparable. Sir, while I honor the present Congress for its great labors and the many good deeds it has performed, I must yet count it a shame and a reproach that we did not promptly enact an efficient confiscation bill in December last, which would have gone hand in hand with our conquering legions in the work of trampling down the power of this rebellion, and restoring our bleeding and distracted country to the blessings of peace. Many thousands of dear lives and many millions of money would thus have been spared; for which a poor atonement, indeed, can be found in the learned constitutional arguments against confiscation, which have consumed so much of the time of the present session of Congress.
Mr. Speaker, this never ending gabble about the sacredness of the Constitution is becoming intolerable; and it comes from exceedingly suspicious sources. We find that just in proportion as a man loves slavery, and desires to exalt it above all “principalities and powers,” he becomes most devoutly in love with the Constitution as he understands it. No class of men among us have so much to say about the Constitution as those who are known to sympathize with Jefferson Davis and the pirate crew at his heels. It will not be forgotten that the red-handed murderers and thieves who set this rebellion on foot went out of the Union yelping for the Constitution, which they had conspired to overthrow, through the blackest perjury and treason that ever confronted the Almighty. I remember no men who were so zealously on the side of the Constitution, or so studiously careful to save it from all detriment, as Breckinridge and Burnett, while they remained nominally on the side of the Union. Every graceless miscreant who has wallowed in the filthy mire of slavery till he has outlived his own conscience, every man who would be openly on the side of the rebels if he had the courage to take his stand, every opponent or a vigorous prosecution of the war, by the use of all the powers of war, will be found fulminating his dastardly diatribes on the duty of standing by the Constitution. I notice, also-and I do not mean to be offensive-that the Democratic leaders who have recently issued a semi-rebel address from this city, are most painfully exercised lest the Constitution should suffer in the hands of the present Administration.
Mr. Speaker, I prefer to muster in different com-
<c04>
pany. I prefer to show my fealty to the Constitution by treating it as the charter of liberty, as the foe of rebellion, and as amply armed with the power to save its own life by crushing its foes. Sir, who are the men in whose behalf the Constitution is so persistently invoked? They are rebels, who have defied its power, and who, by taking their stand outside of the Constitution, have driven us to meet them on their own chosen ground. By abdicating the Constitution, and conspiring against the Government, they have assumed the character of public enemies, an I have thus no rights but the rights of war, while in dealing with them we are bound by no laws but the laws of war. Those provisions of the Constitution which define the rights of persons in time of peace, and which must be observed in dealing with criminals, have no application whatever to a state of war, in which criminals acquire the character of enemies. The powers of war are not unconstitutional, because they are recognized and provided for by the Constitution; but their function and exercise are to be regulated by the law of nations governing a state of war, and not by the terms of the Constitution applicable to a state of peace. Hence I must regard much of this clamor about the violation of the Constitution on our part as the sickly higgling of pro-slavery fanatics, or the poorly disguised rebel sympathy of sniveling hypocrites. We must fight traitors where they have chosen to meet us. They have treated the Constitution as no longer in force, and we should give them all the consequences, in full, of their position. By setting the Constitution at naught, they have, rested their case on the naked power of lawless might; and, therefore, we will not give them due process of law, by trying, convicting, and hanging them according to the Constitution they have abjured, but we will give them, abundantly, due process of war, for which the Constitution makes wise and ample provision.
I have referred, Mr. Speaker, to the influence of slavery in giving us false views of the Constitution. It has also given us false ideas as to the character and purposes of the war. We are fighting, it is said, for the Union as it was. Sir, I should be glad to know what we are to understand by this. If it means that these severed and belligerent States must again be united as one and inseparable, with secession forever laid low, the national supremacy vindicated, and the old flag waving over every State and every rood of the Republic, then I agree to the proposition. Every true Union man will say amen to it. But if, by the Union as it was, we are to understand the Union as we beheld it under the thieving Democracy of the last Administration, with such man as Davis, Floyd, Mason, and their God-forsaken confederates, restored to their places in Congress, in the army, and in the Cabinet; if it means that the reign of terror which prevailed in the southern States for years prior to this rebellion shall be re-established, by which unoffending citizens of the free States can only enter “the sacred soil” of slavery at the peril of life; if, by the Union as it was, be meant the Union with another James Buchanan as its king, and Chief Justice Taney as its anointed high-priest, steadily gravitating, by the weight of its own rottenness, into the frightful vortex of civil war; then I am not for the Union as it was, but as I believe it will be, when this rebellion shall have worked out its providential lesson. I confess that I look rather to the future than the past; but if I must cast my eye backward, I shall select the early administrations of the Government, when the chains of the slave were crumbling from his limbs, and before the Constitution of 1789 had been mutilated by the servile Democracy of a later generation.
Mr. Speaker, this clamor for the Union as it was comes from men who believe in the divinity of slavery. It comes from those who would restore slavery in this District if they dared; who would put back the chains upon every slave made free by our army; who would completely re-establish the slave power over the national Government as in the evil days of the past, which have culminated at last in the present bloody strife, and who are now exhorting us to “leave off agitating the negro question, and attend to the work of putting down the rebellion.” Sir, the people of the loyal States understand this question. They know that slavery lies at the bottom of all our troubles. They know that but for this curse, this horrid revolt against liberty and law would not have occurred. They know that all the unutterable agonies of our many battle-fields, all the terrible sorrows which rend so many thousands of loving hearts, all the ravages and desolation of this stupendous conflict, are to be charged to slavery. They know that its barbarism has moulded the leaders of this rebellion into the most atrocious scoundrels of the nineteenth century, or of any century or age of the world. They know that it gives arsenic to our soldiers, mocks at the agonies of wounded enemies, fires on defenceless women and children, plants torpedoes and infernal machines in its path, boils the dead bodies of our soldiers in cauldrons, so that it may make drinking cups of their skulls, spurs of their jaw bones, and finger joints as holiday presents for “ the first families of Virginia” and the “descendants” of the daughter of Pocahontas.” They know that it has originated whole broods of crimes never enacted in all the ages of the past, and that, were it possible, Satan himself would now be ashamed of his achievements, and seek a change of occupation. They know that it hatches into life under its infernal incubation, the very scum of all the villanies and abominations that ever defied God or cursed his footstool. And they know that it is just as impossible for them to pass through the fiery trials of this war without feeling that slavery is their grand antagonist, as it is for a man to hold his breath, and live.
Sir, the loyal people of these States will not only think about slavery, and talk about it, during the progress of this war, but they will seek earnestly to use the present opportunity to get rid of it forever. Nothing can possibly sanctify the sufferings through which we are called to pass but the permanent establishment of liberty and peace. If this is not a war of ideas, it is not a war to be defended. As a mere struggle for political power between opposing States, or a mere question of physical strength or courage, it becomes impious in the light of its horrid baptism of fire and blood. It would rank with the senseless and purposeless wars between the despotisms of the Old World, bringing with it nothing of good for freedom or the race. What I said on this floor in January last, I repeat here now, that the mere suppression of this rebellion will be an empty mockery of our sufferings and sacrifices, if slavery shall be spared to canker the heart of the nation anew, and repeat its diabolical deeds. Sir, the people of the United States, and the armies of the United States, are not the unreasoning machines of arbitrary power, but the intelligent champions of free institutions, voluntarily espousing the side of the Union upon principle. They know, as does the civilized world, that the rebels are fighting to diffuse and eternize slavery, and that that purpose must be met by a manly and conscientious resistance. They feel that 
“Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just.”
and that nothing can “ennoble fight” but a “noble
<c05>
cause.” Mr. Speaker, I can conceive of nothing more monstrously absurd, or more flagrantly recreant, than the idea of conducting this war against a slave holders’ rebellion as if slavery had no existence. The madness of such a policy strikes me as next to infinite. Here are more than a million of men called into deadly strife by the struggle of this black power to diffuse itself over the continent, and strike down the cause of free government everywhere, deluging these otherwise happy States with suffering and death without parallel in the history of the world; and yet so far has this power perverted the judgment and debauched the conscience of the country, that we are seriously exhorted to make still greater sacrifices, in order to placate its spirit and spare its life. I thank God that such a policy is simply impossible. The hearts of the people of the free States, and of the soldiers we have sent into the field, beat for liberty, and without their love of liberty, and the belief that it is now in deadly peril, the rebellion would have triumphed, just as the struggle of our fathers, in 1776, would have ended in failure, if it had been possible to make them ignore the great question of human rights which nerved their arms and fired their hearts.
My colleague, [Mr. VOORHEES,] in his speech the other day, was quite eloquent in his condemnation of the financial management of this war, and quite painstaking in his effort to show the magnitude of the debt it is creating. He would do well to remember that when Mr. Chase took charge of the Treasury, the Government could only borrow money by paying one per cent, per month, while United States six per cent, bonds are now at two per cent, premium over American gold. As to the immense burden which this war is heaping upon us, it has been chiefly caused by the mistaken policy of tenderness towards the rebels, and immunity for their pet institution; and this policy has been steadily and strenuously urged by my colleague and his Democratic associates. It has been far less the fault of the Administration than of some of our commanding generals, and of conservative gentlemen in both Houses of Congress, who have sought by every means in their power to accommodate the war policy of the Government to the equivocal loyalty of the border States. Many precious lives and many millions of money were sacrificed by the military policy which neither allowed the army of the Potomac to march against the enemy, nor go into winter quarters, during the dreary months which preceded the order of the President, directing a combined movement on the 22d of February last The policy of delay, which has also sought to spare slavery, was never accepted by the President of his own choice, but under the influence of those both in and out of the army in whom he reposed confidence at the time.
I rejoice now to find events all drifting in a different direction. I believe rebels and outlaws are to be dealt with according to their character. I trust slavery is not much longer to be spared. Congress has already sanctioned the policy of gradual abolition, as recommended by the President, who himself recognises slavery as the grand obstacle to peace. We have abolished slavery in this District, and thus branded it with national reprobation. We have prohibited it in all national territory, now owned or hereafter to be acquired. We have enacted a new article of war, prohibiting our army from aiding in the recapture of fugitives, and I trust we shall promptly repeal the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, or at least suspend its operation during the rebellion. We have given freedom to multitudes of slaves through our confiscation act of last July, and by receiving them into our camps, and retaining them in our service. We have enacted the homestead bill, which at once recognises the inalienable rights of the people and the dignity of labor, and thus brands the Slave Power as no act of the nation ever did before. Since that power has ceased to dominate in Congress we are perfecting, and shall soon pass a bill for the construction of a Pacific railroad, and another for the abolition of polygamy in Utah. Our watch-words are now-Freedom, Progress.
Those patriotic gentlemen who have been anxious to hang “abolitionists,” as equally guilty with the rebels, are changing their tune. We are reconsidering the folly of dealing with rebels as “misguided brethren,” who must not be exasperated; and while we shall not imitate their barbarities, we are learning to apply to their case the gospel of “an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.” We are waging war in earnest; we are beginning to love freedom almost as dearly as the rebels love slavery; we are animated by a measure of that resentment which the rebellion demanded in the very beginning, and has constantly invoked during the progress of the war; and when these troubles are passed, the people will honor most those who have sought to crush the rebellion by the quickest and most desperate blows and who, in the language of Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts, have been willing to “recognise all men, even black men, as legally capable of that loyalty the blacks are waiting to manifest, and let them fight with God and nature on their side.” The proclamation of General Fremont, giving freedom to the slaves of rebels in Missouri, has done more to make his name a household word than could all the military glory of the war; and I rejoice that, while the President saw fit to revoke the recent sweeping order of General Hunter, he took pains to couple that revocation with words of earnest warning, which have neither meaning nor application if they do not recognise the authority of the Executive, in his military discretion, to give freedom to the slaves. That this authority will be executed, at no very distant moment, I believe most firmly. The language of the President obviously implies it, and foreshadows it among the thick-coming events of the future. Conservatives and cowards may recoil from it, and seek to postpone it; but to resist it, unless Congress shall assume it, will be to wrestle with destiny.
Mr. Speaker, I shall support the two measures of confiscation and liberation now before us, for the same reason which led me to support the confiscation bill of last July. They look in the right direction, and I am glad to see any advance step taken by Congress. But I shall retain, at any rate, my faith in the President, and in that logic of events which shows, amid all the seeming triumphs of slavery, that the anti-slavery idea has been steadily and surely marching towards its triumph. The victories of slavery, in fact, have been its defeats. It triumphed in the Missouri Compromise of 1820; but that triumph, by begetting new exactions, kindled and diffused an unslumbering anti-slavery sentiment which kept pace with every usurpation of its foe. It triumphed in the annexation of Texas, but this, by paving the way for the Mexican war, more fully displayed its spirit of rapacity, and led to an organized political action against it which finally secured the control of the Government. It triumphed in 1850, in the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act, the Texas Boundary Bill, the overthrow of the Wilmot Proviso, and the inauguration of the policy of Popular Sovereignty in our Territories, which afterwards brought forth such bloody fruits in Kansas. But these measures, instead of glutting the demands of slavery, only whetted its appetite, and brought upon it the roused and intensified hostility of the people.
<c06>
It triumphed in the repeal of the Missouri restriction; but this was, perhaps, the most signal defeat in the whole <illegible> lessness, completely unmasking its real character and designs, and appealing to both conservatives and radicals to combine against it. It triumphed again in the Dred Scott decision and the election of James Buchanan as President; but this only enab ed slave-breeding Democracy to grow to its full .stature, and bud and blossom into that perfect luxuriance of diabolism through which the Republican party mounted to power. Slavery triumphed, finally, when it clutched the national Treasury, sent our navy into distant seas, plundered our arsenals, fired on our flag, and sought to make sure its dominion by wholesale perjury, treason, rapine, and murder; but all this was only a grand challenge to the nation to meet it in mortal combat, giving us the right to choose any weapons recognised by the laws of civilized warfare. Baffled and overborne in all its previous encounters, slavery has now forced upon the nation the question of liberty or death; and I cannot doubt that the triumphs of freedom thus far will be crowned by final victory in this grand struggle. The cost of our victory, in treasure and blood, and the length of the struggle, will depend much upon the madness or the wisdom which may dictate our policy; but I am sure that our country is not so far given over to the care of devils as to allow slavery to come out of this contest with its life. To believe this, would be to take sides with “the fool” who “hath said in his heart, there is no God.”
The triumph of anti-slavery is sure. In the day of its weakness, it faced proscription, persecution, violence and death, but it never deserted its flag. It was opposed by public opinion, by the press, by the religious organizations of the country, and by great political parties which it finally rent in twain and trampled under its feet. It is now the master of its own position, while its early heroes are taking their rank among “the noble of all ages.” It has forced its way into the presidential chair, and rules in the Cabinet. It dictates the legislation of Congress, and speaks in the Courts of the Old World. It goes forth with our armies, and is every hour more and more imbuing the soldiers of the Republic with its spirit. Its course is onward, and while
“The politic statesman looks back with a sigh.
There is doubt in his heart, there is fear in his eye”;
and even those slimy doughfaces and creeping things that still continue to hiss at “abolitionism,” betray a tormenting apprehension that their day and generation are rapidly passing away. In the light of the past, the future is made so plain that “he that runs may read.” In the year 1850, when the Slave Power triumphed through the “final settlement” which was then attempted, I had the honor to hold a seat in this body; and I said, in a speech then delivered, that-
“The suppression of agitation in the non-slaveholding States will not and cannot follow the ‘peace measures’ recently adopted. The alleged death of the Wilmot Proviso will only prove the death of those who have sought to kill it, while its advocates will be multiplied in every portion of the North. The covenant for the admission of additional slave States will be repudiated, while a renewed and constantly increasing agitation will spring up in behalf of the doctrine of ‘no more slave States.’ The outrage of surrendering free soil to Texan slavery cannot fail to be followed by the same results, and just as naturally as fuel feeds the flame which consumes it. The passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill will open a fresh wound in the North, and it will continue to bleed just as long as the law stands unrepealed. The existence of slavery in the capital of the Republic, upheld by the laws of Congress, must of itself keep alive an agitation which will be swelled with the continuance of the evil. Sir, these questions are no longer within the control of politicians. Party discipline, presidential nominations, and the spoils of office, cannot stifle the free utterance of the people respecting the great struggle now going on in this country between the free spirit of the North and a domineering oligarchy in the South. Here, sir, lies the great question, and it must be met. Neither acts of Congress nor the devices of partisans can postpone or evade it. It will have itself answered. I am aware that it involves the bread and butter of whole hosts of politicians; and I do not marvel at their attempts to escape it, to smother it, to hide it from the eyes of the people, and to dam up the moral tide which is forcing it upon them. Neither do I marvel at their firing of guns and bacchanalian libations over ‘the dead body of the Wilmot.’ Such labors and rejoicings are by no means unnatural, but they will be followed by disappointment. It is vain to expect to quiet agitation by continued concessions to an institution which is becoming every hour more and more a stigma to the nation, and which, instead of seeking new conquests and new life, should be preparing itself with grave clothes for a decent exit from the world; concessions revolting to the humanity, the conscientious convictions, the religion, and the patriotism of the free States.”
Sir, I speak to-day in the spirit of these words, uttered nearly twelve years ago, and verified by time. A small band of men in Congress braved public opinion, the ruling influences of the time, and every form of proscription and intimidation, in standing by the cause which was overwhelmingly voted down. But although outvoted, it was not conquered. “It is in vain,” says Carlyle, “to vote a false image true. Vote it, and revote it, by overwhelming majorities, by jubilant unanimities, the thing is not so; it is otherwise than so, and all Adam’s posterity, voting upon it till doomsday, cannot change it.”
The history of reform bears unfailing witness to this truth. The cause which bore the cross in 1850 wears the crown today. No power can die that ever wrought for truth,” while the political graves of recreant statesmen are eloquent with warnings against their mistakes. Where are those Northern statesmen who betrayed liberty in 1820? They are already forgotten, or remembered only in their dishonor. Who now believes that any fresh laurels were won in 1850, by the great men who sought to gag the people of the free States, and lay the slab of silence on those truths which to-day write themselves down, along with the guilt of slavery, in the flames of civil war? Has any man in the whole history of American politics, however deeply rooted his reputation or godlike his gifts, been able to hold dalliance with slavery and live? I believe the spirit of liberty is the spirit of God, and if the giants of a past generation were not strong enough to wrestle with it, can the pigmies of the present? It has been beautifully said of Wilberforce that he “ascended to the throne of God with a million of broken shackles in his hands, as the evidence of a life well spent.” History will take care of his memory; and when our own bleeding country shall again put on the robes of peace, and freedom shall have leave to gather up her jewels, she will not search for them among the political fossils who are now seeking to spare the rebels by pettifogging their cause in the name of the Constitution, while the Slave Power is feeling for the nation’s throat. No; God is not to be mocked. Justice is sure. The defenders of slavery and its despicable apologists will be nailed to the world’s pillory, and the holiest shrines in the temple of American liberty will be reserved for those who shall most faithfully do battle against this rebellion, as a gigantic conspiracy against the rights of human nature and the brotherhood of our race.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GENERAL LANE AT COOPER INSTITUTE.
On Wednesday evening, 4th inst. Gen. Lane, of Kansas, appeared before an immense crowd at Cooper Institute. We give a portion of his speech, which is characteristic throughout:-
If there is anything that to me, now, is more disgraceful than all others to manhood, womanhood, and childhood, it is Northern reverence for the institution of slavery. [Applause.] I do not forget the place and the people to whom I speak, the city of place New York, that to this Government is a power behind the throne more powerful than the throne itself; and if here I could, by giving up my life, inculcate a fair and candid spirit concerning the institution of slavery, God knows how willingly I would die. Had the people of New York, a year ago, declared to the Government, or to the President, "We instruct you to issue a proclamation to the slave States, saying. You must within thirty days lay down your arms, or I will free all your slaves,” that proclamation would have been issued, and the war ended long ere this.
Why has this war been so long kept up? That it might preserve the institution that inaugurated it. It commenced in the fall of 1855 on the plains of sot Kansas. Every slave State, save Maryland and Delaware, had an army on the plains of Kansas, that liberty might be killed. How did we save Kansas? A handful of men, weak and feeble, with a few Sharpe's rifles, did it. We said to slavery “, You have brought this trouble, upon us, and you shall cease to exist in Kansas." We also said to those whose shackles were stricken off, "Take Sharpe's rifles, and fight with us." A man made like us. and with hands like ours, said, "Here, General, we want to fight for freedom," and we gave him the gun, knowing he would fight as well as we. [Applause.]
I have three children, and I suppose most of you have children; if not, you expect to have. This war has been a <illegible> upon us, and I don't want my children to suffer from such a war. I look upon it as cowardly to entail upon our children an intestine war such as this. It is upon us so far as operations of armies go. [Applause.] If we permit a vestige of slavery to remain within the boundaries of the Union, we insure a civil war upon our children. Go with me to the State of Delaware. There are 1,200 slaves in Delaware; is she any nearer being a free State than if she had 100,000? Look at her Bayard and Salisbury! I have nothing to say about them, except that they would sink a thousand Unions like this rather than peril their institution and their political party. In Western Virginia, the people voted ten to one in favor of emancipation. They framed a constitution; and yet they dared not embody a resolution in favor of emancipation, however gradual. Why? They are afraid. 
How about North Carolina? I am not a believer in special Providence; but I do believe it would have been well, if, after Stanly had put his hand to that order, the earth had opened, and he had been sent-down. [Laughter.] Look at it in all its deformity! A President appoints a Governor-a President who has repeatedly declared that not slave, once within our lines, shall be sent back to slavery-and this Governor declares that he is compelled, by the laws of slavery, to issue an order repulsive to every sentiment of humanity.
Find me a Democrat in Washington, who was born such, and he is one who declares Stanly's order is all right. A Democrat in New York does the same thing. There is a class of Democrats who love Democracy a great deal better than they do the Union. I suppose there is no man who will deny that slavery is in direct conflict with the civilization of the age. Emancipation is now a necessity. You may as well come to it, because the slaves have snuffed freedom, and they are worthless after that, as slaves. It may have occurred to you, while I am speaking, to say, What will you do with them? It is upon us-the emancipation of every slave is upon us-and we must not blink. What will you do with them?
We have in Kansas 17,000 families. Four thousand slaves have recently emigrated from Arkansas and Missouri into Kansas, and yet we all get along.
I have aided 2,500 slaves to emigrate this year, and it has not been a very good year for negroes either. [Laughter.] When they first come into camp, they look down, but after a while they look and act like men. It is truth that all the reliable information I received in Missouri, I received from slaves.
I have said that, so soon as we can do it, these two races should be separated, for the good of both- not now, not till we educate them and prepare them for self-government. I am not quite as anxious as you, to get the negroes out of South Carolina. I would like to see South Carolina forever dedicated to that race. [Applause.] I'll guarantee there would be no more secession in South Carolina, if that was so. [Renewed applause.] Educate them where they are.
"But, say you, "how about cotton?" New York is the great metropolis of the country, and I believe there are measures now. before the Congress of the nation, which will make New York the metropolis of the world; and we hope the Pacific Railroad Bill will be passed, thus connecting the East and the West, and effecting that result. You won't get cotton! If you want to increase it, break down the monopoly held by slaveholders! Do you say, how break it down? Why, if these men don't want to stay and work with free labor, let them come away, and make room for northern men who know how to make money out of free labor. [Applause.] The slave will increase the product quaduple when made free. As a slave, he has no incentive to work-give him his pay, and he works as other men work. But, says one, " I don't know about arming the slaves." I should not have said so, perhaps, in conservative New York, but the time is coming when that, too, will be a necessity.
The army of the rebellion will be scattered in a few weeks, but they will exist in guerilla bands. In Missouri, there has been no organized army in three months; yet that State is suffering more than ever from guerillas. How long, and how much did it did it take to destroy the handful of Seminoles secreted in the glades? Years, and millions of dollars.
Is not the guerilla system branded by all nations as murderous? Well, it will exist: and how will we meet it?
I propose to meet it by setting the slaves of those rebels free, and setting them to hunt them out. [ Applause.]
When we get these guerillas cleared out by the use of the slaves, I would like to see every traitor who has to die. die by the hand of his own slave. Let the slave whom he has of pressed do the job. A traitor to the best government on the earth would find fault with the hand that strikes him dead. He ought to be thankful that he's permitted to die. [Laughter.] The Tories of the revolution lived a life of hell; and how much worse will be the condition of those who are permitted to live after their traitorous doings? A Northern traitor! The miserable slave of slavery! It's a vocation. O, I wish that I was forgiven for the crime of having once in my heart reverenced the institution of slavery. [Applause.] The devotee of slavery is a human fiend! There is no crime he will not commit for slavery. Why. a thousand of these fellows would march over into Kansas, and if they killed an unarmed pioneer, or a defenseless woman, or a little child, they claimed a great victory. How would you like to see South Carolina come into the Union with the same status as she had before? Who would like to see South Carolina come into the Union as she went out of it?
I have a vote to cast on that subject in behalf of Kansas; and when he who speaks to you casts a vote in favor of that, he will never again face the gallant people of Kansas. [Applause.] And first, then, we will emancipate the slaves-the slaves of rebels, if you say so; for you can commence where you please, for I know it will result in the freeing of every slave in every- slave State. I tried that in Missouri. [Laughter.] I said to my officers and men, "The slaves of traitors are confiscated." "I issued no proclamation. [Laughter.]
I got to a certain point in Missouri one day with the Kansas Brigade. That night the negroes came into camp, and the next day we all came away together. I had no time to discuss legality with the masters. I believe Congress will pass that law, and all you have got to do is to petition the President- brave, honest old Abe Lincoln-[great applause] -and he'll do that thing, and, in the opinion of the speaker, he is right anxious to do it. [Applause.] I believe, and always shall, why he modified the proclamation of the gallant Fremont-[tremendous applause.] and that of Hunter-[applause]-was, that he wants to do it himself. He wants to write the slaves all free in his own homely style. [Applause.] You've got an institution in this city- what do you call it? [A voice-" Herald,"]
<c02>
No, that isn't what I mean; a place where they sell stocks; and when the President believes he can emancipate the slaves without seriously affecting the price of United States stocks, he'll do it. Why, the longer we carry on this war, apparently, the more money we've got. I have always believed that a hand stronger than ours is protecting this country, and I will not believe that He will permit this rebellion to close without establishing on every foot of this continent freedom, freedom where He can be worshipped, and worshipped intelligently. [Applause.] We have our work to do, and no one has a greater responsibility than the people of New York. Cast aside your fear, your reverence for slavery. Write upon your banner. "Emancipate," and emancipation follows. That done, what will restrict our power? We will then have peace, permanent peace. All my efforts are pledged, all my energies shall be exhausted to secure the emancipation, either immediate or gradual, of every slave. We want freedom for all, for the white race and the black race. [Applause.]

GOVERNOR STANLY OF NORTH CAROLINA.
The course of this person has caused far more sorrow and indignation than anything that the rebels could have done. Just as, by the benevolent exertions of Dr. Colyer, aided by the noble efforts of Gen. Burnside and his officers and men, the colored people were beginning to learn how to live, and were obtaining the rudiments of knowledge; just as the children were beginning to exult, that they, too, as well as the white children, were to learn to read, and they were learning that not all white men were slave drivers or masters, this Gov. Stanly comes, and sweeps it all away with a stroke of his pen-closes the schools, by which the darkness of the soul was being enlightened; drawing around him the men-stealers, and hounding them upon their prey; exercising dictatorial powers, by banishing a citizen for daring to tell him the truth-and all under the excuse of the laws of the State. Laws of the State, quotha? By what law of the State of North Carolina was this man sent as Military Governor? By what law of that State does he hold his position? If he professes such reverence for these laws, why does he hold his office one moment? By what law of that State does he expatriate a citizen for addressing him a respectful letter? Have we lavished our blood, have we given our citizens, have we spent our property for this, that when we have conquered, the kidnapper and slave catcher may enter and seize their poor shrinking victim?
Is this the feast to which we are invited? If it is, let us know it, and we fancy that less Massachusetts men will respond to the call for troops in the future than there has in the past. President Lincoln mistook his man. The course of this tyrant has been against every sentiment and expression of his that he has uttered. He has repeatedly said, that no slave that became free in consequence of this war should be sent back into slavery. We have no doubt but that this Stanly will either be ordered to alter his course, or to leave the scene of his labor where he has caused more evil than he can ever retrieve. Let him go to California again from whence he came, to raise more mobs to put down Union meetings. He will learn before he dies, that this war is not to uphold the slave-catcher or the pander- that the thousands of noble men who are risking their lives, and enduring hardships and privations, did not enter the service of their country to build up the institution of slavery-that the loyal and free North and West are not pouring out their treasure like water, that rebels may recover their lost property in man. And others of the same stamp as this Governor Stanly may learn the same lesson. Those who uphold him, and who bandy coarse jests and brutal remarks upon the noble man who gave his earnest endeavors to teach these poor ignorant beings to be men and women-they will learn this, and the shame of their words will haunt them to their graves.- Old Colony Memorial.

SCORPION STANLY.
The name which the indignant O'Connell used to give to Lord Stanly will much better apply to the cruel wretch whom the Government, by some mistake, has appointed Military Governor of North Carolina. He is a scorpion or scourge of the most malignant sort. His first act on arriving within sight of his seat of power was to disperse the charitable schools which the benevolence of the North had gathered in that benighted State; his second was to deliver up the fugitive slaves who had escaped to our camps, to their owners, whether loyal or disloyal; his third was to expatriate in the most arbitrary manner an eminent and useful citizen of the State, who dared to make a few simple suggestions of policy; and the fourth will be, we presume, the ordering of Burnside to evacuate his tents, surrender all the property he has seized, and betake himself and his Yankees to Rhode Island or some other part of New England.
Stanly perpetrates these outrages in the name of the local law of North Carolina, which he alleges he was sent to execute. But his plea is false in the first place, and invalid in the second. He was no deputed to enforce the local laws of North Carolina. Mr. Stanton, the Secretary of War, from whom he must have received his instructions, declares that he would not belong to an Administration which could authorize or sanction such nefarious proceedings as those of Stanly. It was. however, needless for him to make the disavowal; for no one with a grain sense could suppose that the government would stultify itself so far as to despatch an officer to enforce local laws which would deprive that officer himself of all right to act. Stanly holds his place under the military necessity created by the circumstances of the times; the position of Military Governor is not known to the Constitution of the United States; neither is it known to the laws of North Carolina. On the contrary, the only Governor those laws recognize is Gov. Clark, a secessionist; and consequently, if Governor Stanly's business is to enforce the local laws, he must quit his appointment at once, and hand over his commission to Gov. Clark, and assist Clark in expelling Burnside and his forces. Our troops are in the State in opposition to the local law. so far as there is any, and according to Stanly's logic they ought to depart incontinently, or be sent away, just as Mr. Helper was sent away.
Nay, worse than that; if the local laws of North Carolina are to be enforced at all, they must be enforced in all their length and breadth; the penalties prescribed for their infringement must be executed; and the hundred and more white men and women who have been engaged in the laudable task of teaching the colored people must be punished for their temerity. The laws of North Carolina ordain that any one who shall "teach a slave to read or write, or sell or give him any book or pamphlet, shall be punished with thirty-nine lashes or imprisonment, if the offender be a free negro; but if a white, then with a fine of two hundred dollars."
Now, Dr. Colyer and his scores of male and female assistants have made themselves amenable to these penalties. Each one of them should be fined in the sum of two hundred dollars; the free negroes who have assisted them should receive their thirty-nine lashes on the back, administered by Scorpion Stanly; and all the volunteer soldiers from Rhode Island, New York and New Hampshire, who have made themselves accomplices in the crime, should be proportionately punished.
The audacity of this Military Governor seems to be sufficient to carry him to these lengths. In his zeal for executing the local laws of North Carolina, he does not scruple about violating the general laws of the United States. It is a law of the' United States that speech shall be free; but Stanly threatens to expatriate every citizen and dismiss every officer who shall express an opinion of the propriety of his acts. It is also a law of the United States that "all officers or persons in the military or naval service of the United States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective commands, for the purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor, who may have escaped from any person to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be found guilty by a court-martial of violating this article, shall be dismissed from the service." But Stanly, an officer in the military service of the United States, arrests and returns these fugitives, not by couples or dozens, but by the hundred. More than that, too; he erects himself into a supreme dictator, orders all departing vessels to be searched for contrabands, and threatens such as harbor them with confiscation if they are found.
Are the laws of the Union to be set at naught in this manner? Is this miserable tool of the North Carolina Secessionists to be allowed to continue his malignant outrages? Our error, from the beginning of this war, has been the want of decision and consistency in the prosecution of it-N. Y. Eve. Post.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 27,1862.
FOURTH OF JULY!
It has been the invariable custom of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society to commemorate this National Anniversary; not, however, in the boastful spirit and inflated manner of those who rejoiced in a Union with Slaveholders, and who could see no contradiction, in such a Union, to the great principles of the immortal Declaration of Independence of July 4th, 1776. Our celebration has ever been with the distinct and simple purpose of recalling to the mind and impressing upon the heart of the people the great "self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness."
Confident that our repeated testimonies on these National Anniversaries have been as good seed, sown upon soil long indeed stubborn and unyielding, but at length fertilized, and now full of promise of a glorious harvest,-soon, we trust, to be gathered in,-we again invite and summon the friends of Freedom, of every name and age, and whether living within or beyond the bounds of this our honored Commonwealth, to meet with us, as aforetime, and in even greater numbers than ever before, at the beautiful and well- known FRAMINGHAM GROVE, on the <illegible Fourth of July.
We need say nothing of the beauty and many attractions or the spot, whether for adults or for the young. The day and the occasion constitute the real claims upon our attention, and to these let the Anti-Slavery men and women of Massachusetts, and of New England, respond fitly, as they so well know how to do.
The Boston and Worcester Railroad Co. will convey passengers to and from the Grove, upon their main road and its branches, on that day, at the following rates of fare:-
From Boston, Worcester, and Millbury, 70 cents for adults, 35 cents for children.
From Grafton, adults, 60 cents, children, 30 cents.
From Milford, Milford Branch, (except Holliston,) Northboro', Marlboro', Needham, Grantville, Cordaville, Southboro', and Westboro', 50 cents for adults, 25 cents for children.
From Natick, Holliston, and Ashland, adults 40 cents, children 20 cents.
Trains will run to the Grove, as follows:-
Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester, at 9.40, A. M. stopping at way stations; from Millbury, regular morning train; Milford, at 7.10, or 9.40; Northboro' at 7;Marlboro', at 7.24, or 10.15.
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 5.15 for Boston and Worcester; at 6.15 for Milford and Northboro' branches.
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove, for those not coming by the cars, adults 10 cents, children 5 cents. Those who come by railroad admitted free.
The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments. 
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the railroad depot at South Framingham.
Addresses from well known advocates of the cause, with Songs, and such recreation as this attractive place affords, will occupy the day. Among the speakers expected are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, ANDREW T. FOSS, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, E. H. HEYWOOD, WM. WELLS BROWN, JOHN S. ROCK, Esq. Rev. DANIEL FOSTER of Kansas, and others.
SAMUEL MAY, JR. Committee of Arrangements.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements.
E. H. HEYWOOD, Committee of Arrangements.
HENRY O. STONE, Committee of Arrangements.
CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements.

THE THORN THAT BEARS HAWS.
In the Atlantic Monthly, for July, is an article entitled "Chiefly about War-Matters, by a Peaceable Man," which is noticeable only for its flippant and heartless treatment of the present tremendous national convulsion. Portions of it, as originally written, the publishers have felt obliged either to suppress, or to disclaim in sundry foot-notes. It is a description of a visit made by the writers to Washington and to Gen. McClellan's camp, last March,-a visit made apparently for no other purpose than to demonstrate his secession proclivities, or, at least, his incapacity to comprehend the nature and necessity (philosophically speaking) of the struggle now rending the nation asunder. He has not one cheering word to say of the government, nor a condemnatory sentence in relation to the rebellion. He writes automatically, as though his veins were bloodless; still, obviously with a purpose, and that to whitewash the conduct of the traitors. Standing on the soil of Virginia, in Alexandria, he says:-
"I tried to imagine how very disagreeable (!) the presence of a Southern army would be in a sober town of Massachusetts; and the thought considerably lessened my wonder at the cold and shy regards that are cast upon our troops, the gloom, the sullen demeanor, the declared or scarcely hidden sympathy with rebellion, which are so frequent here."
No doubt such a "presence" would prove "very disagreeable," but what is the design of such' a trite remark?
"No rogue e'er felt the halter draw,
With good opinion of the law";
and it is scarcely to be expected that the Southern rebels, intent on overthrowing the government, will greet the Northern army sent to reduce them to submission, with smiles and cheers! But would the writer have the army to withdraw on that account, and the rebels to be permitted to have their own way? We are inclined to think that he would, on the whole, judging from this specimen of his patriotism. It seems questionable whether he would evince even the pluck of Dogberry,-supposing he stood in the President's place, or at the head of the army, a most absurd supposition indeed!-by commanding "all vagrom men to stand in the prince's name," but he would be pretty sure to" take no note of them, but let them go, as none of the prince's subjects." Here is the hardest thing he finds it in his heart to say of the rebels:-
"Undoubtedly, thousands of warm-hearted, sympathetic, and impulsive persons have joined the rebels, not from any real zeal for the cause, but because between two conflicting (!) loyalties, they chose that which necessarily lay nearest the heart."
But how is the army to discriminate between persons possessing these "sweetest and most generous qualities," and the other rebels who possess them not? And where but on Southern soil, and in the Calhoun school, is any such nonsense as that of "two conflicting loyalties" gravely advanced? For, politically speaking, the paramount duty of the citizen is to the general government; and the State which is in rebellion has no valid claim upon his loyalty. The assertion of the writer, that "there never existed any other government against which treason was so easy, and could defend itself by such plausible arguments (!) as against that of the United States," savors strongly of the secession sentiment, and is singularly mendacious in a time like the present. It is a Buchanan Democrat who thus strikes at the foundation of the American government-the government of the people, as against the government of dynasties; and he does <illegible the service of the most abhorrent form of treason that the pages of history record! Now, it is untrue that there are any "plausible arguments to" be adduced in defence or extenuation of such treason; for it is characterized by everything perfidious, brutal
"Understood to be Nathaniel Hawthorne, the author of "The Scarlet Letter," &c.
<c04>
and devilish. Still, the writer persists in saying that "the anomaly of two allegiances," only "the anomaly," mark you!-"has converted crowds of honest people into traitors, who seem to themselves not merely innocent, but patriotic"! And he magnanimously adds-" If a man loves his own State, therefore, and is content to be ruined with her, let us shoot him, if we can, but allow him an honorable burial in the soil he fights for." This language is alike sneering, deceptive and contradictory; for why should we shoot a man for simply loving his own State? And what has that to do with the question under consideration? Here is what all the rebellious States solemnly agreed should be the basis of the Union, the test of true loyalty, and the standard of State obligation:-
Federal Constitution, Art. VI. $2. 
"This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."
Having wantonly and perfidiously risen up in rebellion against the Constitution, in a murderous and piratical spirit, not to gratify State love, but to show their hatred of free institutions, and to guard and perpetuate their thousand times accursed slave system, what, claim have these traitors to any sympathy or apology beyond what is due to the worst felons of the human race? To talk of "an honorable burial" for such, is to confound all moral distinctions.
The writer proceeds to State that he visited the tavern in Alexandria in which Colonel Ellsworth was killed, and thinks that the assassin Jackson and his victim must have almost simultaneously "met on the Threshold of the spirit-world, and perhaps came to a better understanding (!) before they had taken many steps on the other side."
He then says that, driving out of Alexandria, he "stopped on the edge of the city to inspect an old slave-pen, which is one of the lions of the place, but a very poor one"-too poor to elicit one word respecting its horrid design, or a single congratulation that it has had its day.
Meeting a party of contrabands, "escaping out of the mysterious depths of Secessia,"-which fine language means escaping from whips and chains, and compulsory and unpaid toil, and mental ignorance and moral debasement,-he found them to be "unlike the specimens of their race whom we are accustomed to see at the North, "but" far more agreeable." Whether it was because they "were so rudely attired, as if their garb had grown upon them spontaneously," or because "they seemed a kind of creature by them selves, not altogether human," or for both of these reasons, we are left in doubt. It is plain, however, that the well clad, intelligent, educated, independent colored people at the North are not at all to his taste. We must take his word for it that he "felt most kindly towards these poor fugitives," and his confession of uncommon stupidity or stoical indifference in "not knowing precisely what to wish in their behalf, nor in the least how to help them"! There's a philosopher, philanthropist, and patriot for you-of the genuine democratic stripe! "A fig for your kindly feelings," might the escaping fugitives say to him. He says he would not have turned them back, and yet "should have felt almost as reluctant, on their own account, to hasten them forward to the stranger's land"! A nice balancing of considerations, truly! But the fugitives, it seems, had no difficulty whatever in determining, "on their own account," whether to remain in the house of bondage or to come out of it; for they were marching hopefully on, showing exceeding good sense in coming to such a decision. "My prevalent idea," says the writer," was, that whoever may be benefited by the results of this war, it will not be the present generation of negroes." We beg leave to doubt whether he has any idea about it, beyond the prejudice engendered by Negrophobia. It is remarkable how hopeful and cheerful are the negroes of the South, in view of the great struggle now going on; and we rely far more upon their unlettered instinct, in this matter, than upon the scholarly skepticism of this dealer in "words, words, words."
The rebel barbarities seem to excite his facetiousness! Here is what he says:-
"If the report of a Congressional Committee may be trusted, that old-fashioned kind of goblet [an enemy's skull] has again come into use, at the expense of our Northern head-pieces,-a costly drinking-cup to him that furnishes it! Heaven forgive me for seeming to jest upon such a subject!- only, it is so odd, when we measure our advances from barbarism, and find ourselves just here!"
But while thus disposed to indulge in merriment where others are shudderingly affected,-and while taking care to indulge in no epithets condemnatory of the traitors and their savage deeds,-he readily brands John Brown, of immortal memory, "whose soul is marching on," though "his body lies a moldering in the grave," as a "blood-stained fanatic," and coolly declares that "nobody was ever more justly hanged"! Nay, more" any common-sensible man, looking at the matter unsentimentally, must have felt a certain intellectual satisfaction in seeing him hanged, if it were only in requital of his preposterous miscalculation of possibilities"! The publishers of the Atlantic Monthly are constrained to append the following note to this brutal assault:-" Can it be a son of old Massachusetts who utters this abominable sentiment? For shame!"
Alluding to the treasonable sentiments still cherished and avowed by may residents and visitors of Washington, the writer says:-
"If the cabinet of Richmond were transferred to the Federal city, and the North awfully snubbed, at least, and driven back within its old political limits, they would deem it a happy day. It is no wonder, and, if we look at the matter generously, no unpardonable crime. Very many people hereabouts remember the many dynasties in which the Southern character has been predominant, and contrast the genial courtesy, the warm and graceful freedom of that region, with which they call (though I utterly disagree with them) the frigidity of our Northern manners, and the Western plainness of the President."
This has an air of treasonable sympathy about it, notwithstanding the parenthetical dissent thrown in. No genuine loyal man would write thus.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY Devoted to Literature and National Policy-No. I. Volume II.-July, 1862. Table of contents:-
1. What shall be the end? Rev. C. E. Lord. 2. Bone Ornaments. Charles G. Leland. 3. The Molly O'Molly Papers. No. V. 4. Glances from the Senate- Gallery. 5. Maccaroni and Canvas. No. V. Henry P. Leland. 6. For the Hour of Triumph. 7. In Transit. 8. Among the Pines. Edmund Kirk. 9. Was He Successful! Richard B. Kimball. 10. Newbern as it was and is. 11. Our Brave Times. 12. The Crisis and the Parties. Charles G. Leland. 13. I Wait. 14. Taking the Census. 15. The Peloponnesus in March. 16. Adonium. 17. Polytechnic In-statutes. Charles G. Leland. 18. Slavery and Nobility vs. Democracy. Lorenzo Sherwood. 19. Watching the Stag. An unfinished Poem, by the late Fitz-James O'Brien. 20. Literary Notices. 21. Editor's Table.
THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM, Supplement 1, contains a Sketch of Parson Brown low, written by Theodore Tilton for the Independent, and his speeches at the Academy of Music and Cooper Institute, New York, fully reported in short-hand by Charles B. Collar. Published in neat pamphlet form by E. D. Baker, 135 Grand street, New York-price 10 cents.
"AMONG THE PINES." The remarkably interesting and thrilling articles, descriptive of life among the poor whites of South Carolina, which have been published in the pages of the Continental Monthly, have just been published in a 12. volume, by Charles T. Evans, 532 Broadway, N. Y. That this work will be extensively read, there is no doubt The author, who evidently describes facts which have fallen under his notice, wields a graphic pen, and is destined to take a high place in the ranks of American authors.
<c05>
INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT ON 
EMANCIPATION. 
A delegation from the Religious Society of Progressive Friends, consisting of Thomas Garrett, Alice Eliza Hambleton, Oliver Johnson, Dinah Mendenhall. Wm. Barnard, and Eliza Agnew, appeared before the President on Friday morning, 20th inst. to present a memorial, praying him to decree the emancipation of the slaves. The deputation was introduced by Senator Wilmot, and accompanied by Messrs. Kelley, Davis and Campbell of the Pennsylvania Delegation in the House. Mr. Wilmot having announced the objects of the delegation, Oliver Johnson said:-
MR. PRESIDENT: We appear before you by your kind permission, not to solicit office for ourselves or our friends, nor to ask for any party or personal favour, but in the interest of the country and of humanity. Our clients are 4,000,000 slaves, who cannot speak for themselves, but only lift up their chained hands in mute but agonizing supplication for the freedom which it is in your power in this solemn crisis of the nation's fate to confer upon them.
Mr. Johnson then read the Memorial, as follows:-
To ABRAHAM LINCOLS, President of the United States: 
The Religious Society of Progressive Friends, in Yearly Meeting assembled at Longwood, Chester Co. Pa. from the 5th to the 7th of Sixth month, 1862, under a solemn sense of the perils besetting the country, and of the duty devolving upon them to exert whatever influence they possess to rescue it from impending destruction, beg leave respectfully but earnestly to set forth, for the consideration of President Lincoln:
That they fully share in the general grief and reprobation felt at the seditious course pursued in opposition to the General Government by the so-called "Confederate States"; regarding it as marked by all the revolting features of high-handed robbery, cruel treachery, and murderous violence, and therefore utterly to be abhorred and condemned by every lover of his country, and every friend of the human race.
That, nevertheless, this sanguinary rebellion finds its cause, purpose, and combustible materials, in that most unchristian and barbarous system of slavery which prevails in that section of the country, and in the guilt of which the whole land has long been deeply involved by general complicity; so that it is to be contritely recognized as the penalty due to such persistent and flagrant transgression, and as the inevitable operation of the law of eternal justice.
That thus heavily visited for its grinding oppression of an unfortunate race, "peeled, meted out, and trodden under foot," whose wrongs have so long cried unto Heaven for redress-and thus solemnly warned of the infatuation as well as exceeding wickedness of endeavoring to secure peace, prosperity and unity, while leaving millions to clank their chains in the house of bondage-the nation, in its official organization, should lose no time in proclaiming immediate and universal emancipation, so that the present frightful effusion of blood may cease, liberty be established, and a permanent reconciliation effected by the removal of the sole cause of these divisions.
That in his speech delivered at Springfield, before his election to the office of Chief Magistrate, the President expressly declared: "A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved-I do not expect the house to fall-but I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will become all one thing, or all the other."
That this Society, therefore, urgently unites with a wide-spread and constantly increasing sentiment, in beseeching the President, as the head of the nation, clothed with the constitutional power in such a fearful emergency, to suppress the rebellion effectually by the removal of its cause, not to allow the present golden opportunity to pass without decreeing the entire abolition of slavery throughout the land, as a measure imperatively demanded by a due regard for the unity of the country, the safety and happiness of the people, the preservation of free institutions, and by every consideration of justice, mercy, and peace. "Otherwise, we have fearful reason to apprehend that blood will continue to flow, and fierce dissensions to abound, and calamities to increase, and fiery judgments to be poured out, until the work of national destruction is consummated beyond hope of recovery.
The President said that, as he had not been furnished with a copy of the memorial in advance, he could not be expected to make any extended remarks. It was a relief to be assured that the deputation were not applicants for office, for his chief trouble was from that class of persons. The next most troublesome subject was slavery. He agreed with the memorializes, that slavery was wrong, but in regard to the ways and means of its removal, his views probably differed from theirs. The quotation in the Memorial, from his Springfield speech, was incomplete. It should have embraced the next sentence, in which he indicated his views as to the effect upon slavery itself of the resistance to its extension. That sentence he recited as follows: "Either the opponents of slavery will resist the farther spread of it, and place it where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course of ultimate extinction; or its advocates will push it forward till it shall become alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new, North as well as South." The view of the subject presented in this entire passage had been very deliberately expressed, and he had never retracted it, nor felt any disposition to do so. If a decree of emancipation could abolish slavery, John Brown would have done the work most effectually. Such a decree surely could not be more binding upon the South than the Constitution, and that cannot be enforced in that part of the country now. Would a proclamation of freedom be any more effective?
The President having put this interrogatory as though he desired an answer, Mr. Johnson said:
"True, Mr. President, the Constitution cannot now be enforced at the South; but you do not on that account intermit the effort to enforce it, and the memorialists are solemnly convinced that the abolition of slavery is indispensable to your success."
The President said that he felt the magnitude of the task before him, and hoped to be rightly directed in the very trying circumstances by which he was surrounded.
Wm. Barnard addressed the President in a few words, expressing sympathy for him in all his embarrassments, and an earnest desire that he might, under divine guidance, be led to free the slaves, and thus save the nation. He referred, by way of illustration, to the appeal of Mordecai to Queen Esther, praying for her interposition with the King for the salvation of his nation from destruction." For if thou altogether boldest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and who know best whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? "Esther, in response to this earnest appeal, exerted her influence successfully for the salvation of a whole people. He hoped the President would be led by the influence of the Divine Spirit to exert the power placed in his hands for the liberation of those in bonds, and for the salvation of the country. In that case, nations yet unborn would rise up to call him blessed, and, better still, he would secure the blessing of God. 
The President responded to the remarks of Mr. Barnard very feelingly and impressively, observing that he was deeply sensible of his need of Divine assistance. He had sometimes thought that perhaps he might be an instrument in God's hands of accomplishing a great work, and he certainly was not unwilling to be. Perhaps, however, God's way of accomplishing the end which the memorialists have in view may be different from theirs. It would be his earnest endeavor, with, a firm reliance, upon the Divine arm, and seeking light from above, to do his duty in the place to which he had been called.
The deputation there upon withdrew, much gratified by the character of their reception.
What influence, if any, the presentation of the Memorial may have exerted upon the mind of the President is known only to Him -in whose hands are the hearts of all men, rulers and ruled. It is not, however, too much to say, that members of Congress and others at Washington, who have the cause of freedom at heart, have been not a little gratified by the appearance at the Capital, for such an object, of a deputation from one of the religious bodies of the land. One distinguished member of Congress said, that if all the churches of the country, or the major portion of them, would only follow the example of the Progressive Friends, the President and Congress would soon 
<c06>
be constrained to strike for the overthrow of slavery as the only way of putting down the rebellion. The inaction of those who really desire emancipation , and their failure to make their voice heard in Washington, leaves those who administer the government to doubt whether they would be sustained in pursuing an anti-slavery policy. The advocates of half-way measures, on the other hand, are clamorous, making their voice to be heard, day by day, by the President and his constitutional advisers. It is believed that if the sentiment existing at the North in favor of emancipation were only organized, concentrated and brought to bear upon the government through the legitimate channels, it would sweep everything before it. But while the politicians are busy with their schemes, the mass of the honest-hearted people, at work upon their farms or in their shops, take no sufficient measures to make their influence felt by the government. Memorials for emancipation should go up to the President and Congress from every county and town in the free States; and the religious denominations of the land should send deputations to Washington, beseeching those in authority, if they would save the country from utter destruction, to proclaim the emancipation of those in bonds. The White House ought to be besieged, every day, by the earnest men 'and women who see that the only way of salvation and peace is the way of universal liberty.
The Progressive Friends have set a good example. May it be extensively followed.

MAYOR WIGHTMAN'S LETTER.
MARLBORO', (Mass.) June 23, 1862. To his Excellency, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States:
SIR,-" I am induced to write you this from a sense of duty, for the purpose of repudiating, in the most emphatic manner, the idea that" Joseph M. Wightman, Mayor of Boston, "is authorized to speak for the loyal citizens of this State."
"There may possibly be small sections" in some of the cities "in the Commonwealth," there probably is in Boston a rather large "section," soon to be forgotten, of whom this Mr. Wightman may be the (to be still more speedily forgotten) oracle. But "I assure your Excellency "that he, and such, as he do not understand the spirit of Massachusetts, and have no right to speak of her intentions. There are "sections," happily growing more and more insignificant,- part mob, part money, that tried, soon after your election to the Presidency, to suppress free speech in this State, and of their views this official has, there is good reason to believe, thorough and intimate knowledge. There is a "section," unhappily not "small," in our metropolis, who have so little regard for our State "Constitution as it is, and the enforcement of the laws," men whose "higher law," scorning all constitutions, is the "lower law,"-as openly and <illegible> to ply an iniquitous and criminal traffic. To this section Mr. Wightman was largely indebted for his election and reelection as Mayor of Boston. Let him speak for them, but not for glorious old Massachusetts.
It is my privilege, sir, to live in the very heart of the Commonwealth, in a community instinct with the overflowing. We of that free labor, whose right and whose might this great contest is to vindicate and to settle,-farmers, who patiently and perseveringly? till the soil; mechanics, who make the crowded workshops resound with the din of their self-reliant, unflagging industry. I am surrounded by families, who have given up ungrudgingly husbands, sons, brothers, to swell the hundreds who from this "rural district" rallied at their country's call. My present and my past experience enable me, I think, to appreciate the feeling of the old Bay State as well as those who have trodden for years the pavements of the city. So the as influence is concerned, it is no more preposterous in me to criticise Joseph M. Wightman than it is for Joseph M. Wightman to criticise John A. Andrew so ludicrously insignificant is this Mayor's influence beyond thetas of his own policemen. And I tell you, sir, that those who speak through him no more represent the sentiment of Massachusetts this day, than did the to very addressers of Thomas Hutchinson in the days which ushered in the Revolution; that they neither make our history, (except it be a part of its a least creditable part,) nor do they comprehend it, since, like the old Bourbons, they (politically) "learn nothing and forget nothing." Idolaters of gold, their past subservience to that Southern slaveholding arrogance which, grown bolder and bolder by the servility of such as they, and counting on their cooperation, plunged this country into civil war, is as ready as ever to repeat itself, should the future permit. But Massachusetts -(I am now saying only what everybody here knows ,) has banished them from her councils, and bidden them an eternal farewell. "Her citizens generally (to quote Mr. W. again,) "have no sympathy" with them.
Gov. Andrew was probably premature, but he certainly was only premature in his reply to the requisition of the Government for more recruits. This State will not long CONTINUE to protect slavery in a war which slavery (misled by confidence in the power of its "natural allies" in the North) voluntarily and inexcusably began. "John Brown's course may have been wrong, but John Brown himself was right," wrote John A. Andrew to a John Brown commemorative meeting, and as this sentence expressed precisely the feeling of our State, she elected the man who wrote it her Governor. In estimating her position, will you believe, sir, a city mayor, who saved his reelection by a diminished and in no wise commanding majority, or her large-hearted adopted son, whom she re-chose her Chief Magistrate by a two-thirds vote!
Be assured, sir, how much so ever we here in Massachusetts may wish that some measures could have been different, we believe that President Lincoln "himself is right." We confide in your integrity, patriotism and wisdom. Free labor trusts her representative in the Presidential Chair. The "mudsills" will not believe that he can or would betray.
"Confide in the loyalty and devotion" of our State She "will as cheerfully respond in the future as in a the past," true to her oft-avowed and long-cherished principles, and believing that the President whom she helped elect will be true to them also.
"Trusting that you will continue to be firm and resolute in your endeavors for the restoration and welfare of our common country, and in ignoring "all advisers "whose counsels tend to prevent the accomplishment of this great object," and whose reaseendency in our nation "would produce an irreparable injury to the cause" of liberty and law, I remain.
With sentiments of the highest respect and esteem,
Your obedient servant,
WM. C. TENNEY.
[Mr. Tenney is the Unitarian minister at Marlboro'.]-Ed. Lib.
We are indebted to Hon. Henry Wilson for a large and handsomely illustrated volume, entitled "Report upon the Colorado River of the West, explored in 1857 and 1858 by Lieutenant Joseph C. Ives, Corps of Topographical Engineers, under the direction the Office of Explorations and Surveys, A. A. Humphreys, Captain Topographical Engineers, in charge. By order of the Secretary of War." It is accompanied with numerous maps, and representations of the most sublime and interesting objects in nature, in that wonderful region.
We also acknowledge with thanks the receipt, from the Hon. John P. Hale, of Vol. XI. of the Senate Document entitled, " Reports of Explorations and Surveys to ascertain the most practicable and economical route for a railroad from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean,"-a work of the highest value and beauty, recording the labor of four years in our Western wilds by the pioneers of an unborn civilization. The inception of the present undertaking, so vast are its proportions, goes back to the days of Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War, and furnishes another example of one who builder better than he knew.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
“PARSON BROWNLOW" AND THE ABOLITIONISTS.
[Extract from on Address to the Citizens of Cincinnati, as their Relations to Institutions, Men and Measures, in the present Crisis. Delivered at Turner's Hall, May 6 1862. By ORSON S. MURRAY.]
W.G. Brownlow in Knoxville is comparatively a harmless being. W.G. Brownlow in Cincinnati is an instigator of mobs and murder. Mobbing and murder in Tennessee are at home, and in place-in Ohio, they are away from home, and out of place. Mobbing and murder in a slave State are legitimate, and in charter-in a free state, they are illegitimate, and out of character. 

Why does W. G. Brownlow want "Abolitionists hung, their bodies buried in a ditch, and their souls sent to hell" Because he is a slaveholder; and because Abolitionists want the abolishment of the slave-holding institution, which is the prime instigator, the ultimate cause of mobs and murder, of anarchy, war and ruin. Herein is manifest the difference between him and them-a difference which the citizens of Cincinnati, and of Ohio, and of the people who would constitute a republic, will do well to consider and heed. He, a slaveholder, wants men abolished-wants righteousness abolished. Abolitionists want the abolishment, not of men, but of the institution want the abolishment, not of men, but of the institution which makes, men unrighteous makes men unrighteous. This is the difference. Calling attention to it cannot be too often repeated. Its consequence cannot be too strongly illustrated. Brownlow, Torquemada-like, would destroy men for their convictions, their sentiments. Abolitionists would destroy the institutions that makes such a brute of Brownlow.
Does this preacher "Know what manner of spirit he is of”! And do they who sustain him with " immense applause,” while he is “breathing out his threatenings and slaughter," know what is involved in what they are doing? Brownlow’s is the same assassin-sprit that struck down Summer in the U.S. Senate. They who cheer him on do the same work which was done by Douglas and Keitt, who stood by the blood thirsty Brooks, to see that he did his assassin work effectually, and to see that the assassin received no harm from his struggling victim. Brownlow's is the identical spirit that stoned Stephen at Jerusalem. They who applaud him in it do the work that was done by the "young man Saul," holding the clothes of the mob while they perpetrated the murder. Brownlow’s is the same infernal spirit that crucified, and otherwise tormented to death, the other Christian martyrs, and then made persecutors of Christians;-that inspired Peter the Hermit;-that animated the first Inquisitor General of Spain, who, according to Davenport, during sixteen years, gave eight thousand eight hundred victims to the flames, and condemned ninety thousand to perpetual imprisonment and other severs punishments;-the same spirit that burnt Servetus on a green wood pile. Brownlow’s is the identical animus that has moved the mobbing, shooting and hanging of Northern citizens throughout the Southern States,-the plotting against President Lincoln's life,-the firing down of the Federal flag at Sumter, the using of Northern skulls for drinking cups and washing dishes,-the employment of savages to scalp our soldiery, the besieging of the National Capital,-the throttling of the U. S. Government. Abolitionists don't lay these sins to the charge of the men-they charge them on the execrable institution that makes such brutes of men. They call for the abolishment, the eradication, the extinction of the institution; for the salvation of the men.

Parenthetically here, there is a very able political writer in the West, who declares to us that there is no such institution as slavery in existence-that there never was, and I suppose of course never can be, such an institution in existence. It is said he has written a book to establish this position. The book has not fallen into my hands. While he was editing a paper, in which his readers were not permitted to reply to him, his assumption in words was, that "slavery is not an institution, but is a relation.” Well, Abolitionists go for the abolishment of such a relation. He likened the relation to that of husband and wife, and, if my memory be correct, to that between parent and child. Well, if husband can put wife on auction-block with child, and wife and child with dogs and pigs, and sell them together for gold that will get him the gratification of his lusts, all Abolitionists worthy of the name or true to the nature, go for the abolishment of such a relation also. No matter whether gods or men have joined things thus together-Abolitionists say, let them be put asunder.

Thus much for the thing, call it "institution," or call it "relation". So much for such a defence of it by such a perversion of words-by such an exhibition of perverseness in the use of the English language.
But, to return to the "Parson" and his patrons-his sympathizers and backers. Why is it, how is it, that this pious personage publicly puts himself forth in full propensity, in the city of Cincinnati, for killing Abolitionists-at least, for instigating the killing of them? And why is it, and how is it, that he gets "immensely applauded" and lauded in the city of Cincinnati for making such an exhibition of himself? It is not that, on the part of the Parson and his patrons, there is natural enmity toward the men who are Abolitionists. It is not that those men hate these men, as men, and want to kill them. It is not that the Ohio river runs between them,-for the haters of the Abolitionists appear to be on both sides of the stream; at least, the sympathizers with the hatred appear to be on the wrong side. There is no reason in nature-no good reason-why men born in Virginia should hate men born in Vermont. The malicious hatred, then, the brutal malignity, is not to be laid to the charge of men-it is chargeable to the murderous institution-otherwise, the illegitimate “relation."
Brownlow certainly is admirable pluck, or he would not have suffered so much for so bad a cause as that of his favorite institution. His Southern brethren are pluck too, or they would long ago have abandoned so bad a job as they have undertaken against the Abolitionists. The family quarrel between Brownlow and his brethren is an affair of filial fidelity. These children of slavery are divided in their views-there is disunion among them-as to the policy to be 
pursued in nourishing and cherishing their alma mater. Brownlow’s radical brethren think they have waxed fat, and can venture to kick. They proudly, scornfully, disdainfully protest against longer playing the part of paupers, and begging help for the maternal support. Brownlow and his Border State brothers are conservative and modest in their pretensions. They are more than willing to have the help of their neighbors in keeping the old brute clad, and hiding the shame of her nakedness before the surrounding world.
Now, I am among those who protest against helping longer to clothe the old beggar and harlot. Instead of helping to make her respectable and comfortable, and to protract her life-giving energies for multiplying her kind, I would uncover her nakedness, and turn her out in the cold, to shiver, and starve, and die. For this, Brownlow wants me hung. So he says; for I am an Abolitionist. And this is what he wants done with Abolitionists, particularly and especially the original ones,-and I am among the original ones.
He regrets that a hundred of these could not have been disposed of many years ago, by this process, not then conceivable, in the imperfect development of faculties and facilities for providing refined treatment. Such a conception was for no previous stage, no antecedent specimen, of human development. It was for W.G. Brownlow, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two of the current era in the West, to give the world such an idea of what our glorious.
The following is the language he is reported to have used in his Ohio speech:-
"If, fifty years ago, we had taken one hundred Southern fire-eaters and one hundred Abolitionists, and hanged them up, and buried them in a common ditch, and sent their souls to hell, we should have had none of this war."
<c02>
Constitutions means when it says, "There shall be no cruel and unjust punishments inflicted."
Nothing is more legitimate than that Brownlow should have such propensities, and manifest them. It is but an outburst of filial affection. I have said that Brown low has pluck. So has John C. Heenan. So has my small bull-terrier, who has Napoleon Bonaparte for a namesake. It may be that Brownlow has a conscience. If he has, it is one of the strongest arguments yet against the institution that has given him such a conscience. Who shall say that Badahung, Brownlow's coadjutor in making "merchandize of slaves and the souls of men," has not a conscience too? The lordly Southrons, the sovereign sons of the South, have boasted of their institutions for producing men of superior parts-of transcendent qualities. Is this Reverend descendant from one of the second families of Virginia, who has on these claims received such distinguished attention and regard from the citizens of Cincinnati, a specimen 
I was saying he would have been after a hundred of the original offenders who have been stripping his mother naked, and showing her shame to the world. It may not be quite modest in me to presume I was among the first hundred to put their hands to this work. But I was at it more than thirty years ago; and expect to continue at it while I live, and slavery lasts. Such identity as mine with original Abolitionism must be my apology for making my appearance personally, when Abolitionists are menaced as they have been recently in Cincinnati. I was a mobbed Abolitionist before Wendell Phillips-not because I was a better man, but because I was older. My name stands alone for my native State, among others for other States, enrolled on the original parchment, under the designation of the " NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION," organized in Philadelphia in 1833. A lithograph copy of the Declaration then put forth-a Declaration that will in no way suffer in future history by the side of the American Declaration of Independence has hung in my room ever since, and can be seen and read there to-day. That is the flag I fight under; and it is no rag, and the enlistment extends during the war.
In regard to exploits of relatives in the war of 1812,1 could say something, to go with what was said by Brownlow on that matter; and it is a pity if there be any points of union between us, we should at such points be disunited. One incident, from several on sides paternal and maternal: On the paternal side-to say nothing of my father, going through the neighborhood, rallying volunteers, and going with them to meet the British at Plattsburgh-a brother of his, a volunteer in the battle of Queenstown, in a bayonet engagement, when one of the enemy's drilled veterans had adroitly wrenched his bayonet from his musket, turned the breech, and broke his way entirely through the enemy's ranks; and then wheeling about, made his way back, in the same manner, into his own ranks.]
To give you a little more of the experience of those who don't want to be hung, by the side of the experience of those who want to hang them, or to have them hung. [Possibly, the experience of those who have stood up for freedom my be as salutary to you, if not as savory, as that of those who would "strike" freedom "down.”] Allow me, then, to inform you that, through my efforts, riding on horseback through the snows of the Green Mountains, the first State Anti-Slavery 
Society was organized, auxiliary to the National Society. Furthermore, this right hand penned the first resolution passed by a State Legislature, and sent to Washington, instructing Senators and requesting Representatives to use their endeavors for the abolishment of slavery and the slave-trade in the District of Columbia and the United States Territories, and the suppression of the inter-State traffic.
The passage of this resolution was procured by the aid of Col. Jonathan P. Miller, a member of the House in the Vermont Legislature, from the town of Berlin. Miller was another of these offenders, who should long ago have been hung, if Brownlow and his kind are to be gratified at the expense of the laborers for the deliverance of those who pine in bondage and pant for freedom. Miller of Vermont, like Randolph of Virginia, was proud of having in his veins the blood of the American Aborigines. He, or his brother, used to boast that his great grandmother was a full-blood equate squaw. He left his class in the Vermont University, foregoing his diploma, to get out as agent, carrying aid to the Greeks, in their struggles for freedom. Not content with feeding them and strengthening them for their struggle, he seized a sword, and went with them to the field of conflict. He was, I think, in the battle of Missolonghi. He told me of standing hand-to-hand against a Turk six feet high. Miller was only of Napoleon's height; and was no whit Napoleon's inferior in courage and intrepidity. He was terrible in onset, with lightning celerity and lion power. Thoughtlessly, I asked him how it went with him and the Turk. He turned the conversation without telling. It was plain he did not want to tell how it fared with a foe to freedom, with Jonathan P. Miller for an antagonist. My first acquaintance with him was on this wise:-I was at Montpelier lecturing on Anti-Slavery, at the time of the annual assembling of the State Legislature. At the close of a meeting held in the Congregational meeting-house, when I reached the bottom of the pulpit stairs, a man came rushing toward me through the crowd, and exclaiming, " Murray, I came here to fight you; but I believe you are right; give me your hand! Now, if you have anything to lay before the House on the subject, bring it to me in the morning, and I will see it through." This was Col. Jonathan P. Miller. Such was our introduction to each other. I can never forget that frank and manly avowal, and that hearty grasping of my hand. In the morning I drafted a resolution, and carried it to him. Miller was the man for the subject, and it was the subject for the man. He used but few words, but they were with electric power. When he obtained permission to introduce the measure, he electrified the House, and it went with acclamation. This, if my memory be correct, was the first " fire-brand " of the kind thrown into Congress from a State Legislature. It was in 1833,I think-I have not now the record at hand A generation has passed away before Congress has got about any earnest action on the subject, otherwise than to trample under their feet these instructions and petitions from their constituents. Long ago, a direct vote of the people, uninfluenced by corrupt politicians, would have abated that national crime and disgrace.
When Samuel J. May, an Anti-Slavery lecturer, was afterward mobbed in the Montpelier Court-House, and stones were thrown through the windows, Col. Miller, being in the audience, hoisted a window that had been smashed in with stones, and sat himself quietly in it. No more stones were thrown through that window. It is well for such as Davis and Beau regard that Miller is asleep among the mountains of Vermont. Suffer me to suggest here, that with Jessie Benton Fremont in the White House, and John C. Fremont and some living Jonathan P. Miller in the field-accompanied by such as Sigel, and a few like Foote with gunboats and Monitors, a work would soon be done that would extract the bile-would pump the poison-from the stomachs of those who are howling for Abolitionists to be hung.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for July, is received. The following is its table of contents:-
1. Some Soldier-Poetry. 2. Froude’s Henry the Eighth. 3. Why their Creeds Differed. 4. Presence.5. Chiefly about War Matters. 6. The Minute Guns 7. Originality. 8. Ericsson and his Inventions. 9. Moving. 10. Methods of Study in Natural History. 11. Lyrics of the Street. 12. Friend Eli's Daughter. 13. Taxation no Burden. 14. The Poet to his Readers. 15. The Children's Cities. 16. Reviews and Literary Notices. 17. Recent American Publications.
Terms, $3 per annum, or 25 cents a number. Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington Street, Boston. This periodical has now a national reputation, which is not only well sustained, but heightened, by each succeeding number.
<c03>
From the Dedham Gazette.
THE PORT ROYAL EXPERIMENT.
Edward L. Pierce, of Milton, who was appointed Special Agent of the Treasury Department for the management of the abandoned plantations at Port Royal, including the support and control of the contrabands, has submitted his final report to Secretary Chase, and the supervision of affairs has been transferred from the Treasury to the War Department. When the position of Special Agent was accepted by Mr. Pierce, he expected that the duties of the commission would terminate in three months; but the enlarged field of operations and the protracted military movements of the Government have prevented the earlier transfer of this important department. Mr. Pierce has at last been able to arrange matters, so that the military superintendent, Gen. Saxton, will immediately on his arrival at Port Royal assume the direction of affairs. During the last week, Mr. Pierce has visited Washington, and submitted his report; and, after making a flying visit to his home, has returned to Port Royal for the purpose of formally transferring the commission to the charge of the military superintendent, and may be expected home in the course of three weeks. Mr. Pierce is entitled to great credit for the excellent manner in which he has discharged the delicate and responsible duties of the position to which he was so unexpectedly called, and we have no doubt that the signal success of this important movement is in a great measure owing to his earnest, unwearied and judicious labors in its behalf.
As much interest has been expressed in the progress and result of this experiment, we give the following summary of results and the closing remarks of the Agent, which our readers will find well worthy of perusal.
Mr. Pierce states that seventy men and sixteen women are engaged in missionary work among the Negroes, under the auspices of the Treasury Department. The number of plantations under the care of these persons is 189, having upon them 9,050 Africans, classified as follows: 309 mechanics and house servants, not working in the field; 693 old, sickly, and not able to work; 3,619 children not useful for field labor, and 4,429 field hands. The latter are classified as full, three-quarters, one-half, and one-quarter hands-according to their capacity for labor; 3,202 are full hands, 295 three-quarter hands, 597 half hands, 335 one-quarter hands. Fresh arrivals, to the number of about 200, have been distributed among the plantations since the above enumeration was made. Besides, negroes in camp are not included. With their families, they number about 2,000. They have been instructed, however, and cared for like the rest as far as possible. An accurate account is kept of the amount of labor performed by the negroes, which is summed up as follows:-
"The aggregate result makes (adding the negro patches to the corn-fields of the plantations) 8,314 12-100 acres of provisions (corn, potatoes, &c.) planted, 5,489 11-100 acres of cotton planted-in all, 13,795 23-100 acres of provisions and cotton planted. Adding to these the 2,394 acres of late corn, to a great extent for fodder, cow-pens, &c., to be planted, and the crop of this year presents a total of 16,189 23-100 acres. The crops are growing, and are in good condition.
The sum of $5,479 has been distributed among 4,030 negroes in payment for labor on the plantations. The rate is $1 per acre for cotton."
The following is the concluding portion of the report:-
"The educational labors deserve a special statement. It is to be regretted that more teachers had not been provided. The labor of superintendence at the beginning proved so onerous, that several originally intended to be put in charge of schools were necessarily assigned for the other purpose. Some fifteen persons, on an average, had been specially occupied with teaching, and of these four were women. Others having less superintendence to attend to were able to devote considerable time to teaching at regular hours. Nearly all gave some attention to it, more or less, according to their opportunity and their aptitude for the work.
The educational statistics are incomplete, only a part of the schools having been open for two months, and the others having been opened at intervals upon the arrival of persons designated for the purpose. At present, according to the reports, 2,500 persons are being taught on week days, of whom not far from one-third are adults taught when their work is done. But this does not complete the number occasionally taught on week-days and at the Sunday schools. Humane soldiers have also aided in the case of their servants and others. Three thousand persons are, in all probability, receiving more or less instruction in reading on these islands. With an adequate force of teachers this number might be doubled, as it is to be hoped it will be on the coming of autumn. The reports state that very many are now advanced enough so that even if the work should stop here, they would still learn to read by themselves. Thus the ability to read the English language has been already so communicated to these people, that no matter what military or social vicissitudes may come, this knowledge can never perish from among them.
There have been forwarded to the special agents the reports of the teachers, and they result in a remarkable concurrence of testimony. All unite to attest the universal eagerness to learn, which they have not found equaled in white persons, arising both from the desire for knowledge common to all, and the desire to raise their condition, now very strong among these people. The reports on this point are cheering, even enthusiastic, and sometimes relate an incident of aspiration and affection united in beautiful combinations. One teacher, on his first day's school, leaves in the rooms a large alphabet card, and the next day returns to find a mother there teaching her little child of three years to pronounce the first letters of the alphabet she herself learned the day before. The children learn without urging by their parents, and as rapidly as white persons of the same age, often more so, the process being quickened by the eager desire. One teacher reports that on the first day of her school, only three or four knew a part of their letters, and none knew all. In one week seven boys and six girls could read readily words of one syllable, and the following week there were twenty in the same class. The cases of dulness have not exceeded those among whites. The mulattoes, of whom there are probably not more than five per cent. of the entire population on the plantations, are no brighter than the children of pure African blood. In the schools which have been opened for some weeks, the pupils who have regularly attended have passed from the alphabet, and are reading words of one syllable in large and small letters. The lessons have been confined to reading and spelling, except in a few cases where writing has been taught.
There has been great apparent eagerness to learn among the adults, and some have progressed well. They will cover their books with care, each one being anxious to be thus provided, carrying them to the fields, studying them at intervals of rest, and asking information of the superintendents who happen to come along. But as the novelty wore away, many of the adults, finding perseverance disagreeable, have dropped off. Except in rare cases, it is doubtful whether adults over thirty years, although appreciating the privilege for their children, will persevere in continuous study so as to acquire the knowledge for themselves. Still, when books and newspapers are read in negro houses, many, inspired by the example of their children, will be likely to undertake the labor again.
It is proper to state that while the memory in colored children is found to be, if anything, livelier than in the white, it is quite probable that further along, when the higher faculties of comparison and combination are more to be relied on, their progress may be less. While their quickness is apparent, one is struck with their want of discipline. The children have been regarded as belonging to the plantations, rather than to a family, and the parents, who, in their condition, can never have but a feeble hold on their offspring, have not been instructed to training their children into thoughtful and orderly habits. It has, therefore, been found not an easy task to make them quiet and attentive at the schools.
Through the schools, habits of neatness have been encouraged. Children with soiled faces or soiled clothing, when known to have better, have been sent home from the schools, and have returned in better condition. 
In a few cases, the teachers have been assisted by negroes who knew how to read before we came. Of these there are very few. Perhaps one may be found on an average of one or two to three plantations. These, so far as can be ascertained, were in most cases taught clandestinely, often by the daughters of their masters, who were of about the same age. A colored person among these people who has learned to read does not usually succeed so well as a white teacher. He is apt to teach the alphabet in the usual order, and needs special training for the purpose.
The Sabbath schools have assisted in the work of teaching. Some three hundred persons are present at the church on St. Helena in the morning to be taught. There are other churches where one or two hundred attend. A part of these, perhaps the larger, attend some of the day schools, but they comprehend others, as adults, and still others coming from localities where schools have not been opened. One who regards spectacles in the light of their moral aspects can with difficulty find sublimer scenes than those witnessed on Sabbath morning on these islands, now ransomed to a nobler civilization.
The educational labors have had incidental results almost as useful as those which have been direct. At a time when the people were chafing the most under deprivations, and the assurances made on behalf of the Government were most distrusted, it was fortunate that we could point to the teaching of their children as a proof of our interest in their welfare, and of a new and better life which we were opening before them.
An effort has been made to promote clean and healthful habits. To that end, weekly cleanings of quarters were enjoined. This effort, where it could be proper
<c04>
ly made, met with reasonable success. The negroes, finding that we took an interest in their welfare, acceded cordially, and in many cases their diligence in this respect was most commendable. As a race, it is a mistake to suppose that they are indisposed to cleanliness. They appear to practise it as much as white people under the same circumstances. There are difficulties to obstruct improvement in this respect. There has been a scarcity of lime and (except at too high prices) of soap. Their houses are too small, not affording proper apartments for storing their food. They are unprovided with glass windows. Besides, some of them are tenements unfit for beasts, without floor or chimneys. One could not put on a face to ask the occupants to clean such a place. But where the building was decent or reasonably commodious, there has been no difficulty in securing the practise of this virtue. Many of these people are examples of tidiness, and on entering their houses one is sometimes witness of rather amusing scenes, where a mother is trying the effect of beneficent ablutions on the heads of her children.
The religious welfare of these people has not been neglected. The churches, which were closed when this became a seat of war, have been opened. Among the superintendents there were several persons of clerical education, who have led in public ministrations. The larger part of them are persons of religious experience and profession, who, on the Sabbath, in weekly praise meetings and at funerals, have labored for the consolation of these humble believers.
These people have been assured by the Special Agent, that if they proved themselves worthy by their industry, good order, and sobriety, they should be protected against their Rebel masters. It would be wasted toil to attempt their development without such assurances. An honorable nature would shrink from this work without the right to make them. Nor is it possible to imagine any rulers, now or in the future, who will ever turn their backs on the laborers who have been in the service of the United States.
Special care has been taken to protect the property of the Government on the plantations. The cattle had been taken in such large numbers by the former owners, and later by the army, the latter sometimes slaughtering fifty or more head on a plantation, that he necessity of a strict rule for the preservation of those remaining was felt. For that purpose the Special Agent procured orders from the military and naval authorities, dated respectively April 17th and 26th, forbidding the removal of ‘subsistence, forage, mules, horses, oxen, cows, sheep, cattle of any kind, or other property, from the plantations, without the consent of the Special Agent of the Treasury Department, or orders from the nearest General Commanding.' No such consent has been given by the Special Agent except in one case, as an act of mercy to the animal, and in another where he ordered a lamb killed on a special occasion, and has charged himself with the same in his account with the Department. Your instructions, which expressed your desire to prevent the deterioration of the estates, have in this respect been sedulously attended to. The Superintendents have not been permitted to kill cattle, even for fresh meat, and they have subsisted on their rations, and fish and poultry purchased of the negroes.
The success of the movement, now upon its third month, has exceeded my most sanguine expectations. It has had its peculiar difficulties, and some phases at times, arising from accidental causes, might on a particular view invite doubt, which vanished however at once by a general survey of what had been done. Already the high treason of South Carolina has had a sublime compensation, and the end is not yet. The churches which were closed have been opened. No master now stands between the people and the words which the Savior spoke for the consolation of all peoples and all generations. The gospel is preached in fullness and purity, as it has never before been preached in this territory, even in colonial times. The reading of the English language, with more or less system, is being taught to thousands, so that whatever military or political calamities may be in store, this precious knowledge can never more be eradicated. Ideas and habits have been planted, under the growth of which these people are to be fitted for the responsibilities of citizenship, and in equal degree unfitted for any restoration to what they have been. Modes of administration have been commenced, not indeed adapted to an advanced community, but just, paternal, and developing in their character. Industrial results have been reached which put at rest the often reiterated assumption that this territory and its products can only be cultivated by slaves-a social problem which has vexed the wisest, approaches a solution. The capacity of a race, and the possibility of lifting it to civilization without danger or disorder, even without throwing away the present generation as refuse, is being determined. And thus the way is preparing by which the peace to follow this war shall be made perpetual.
Finally, it would seem that upon this narrow theatre, and in these troublous times, God is demonstrating against those who would mystify His plans and thwart His purposes, that in the councils of His infinite wisdom He has predestined no race, not even the African, to the doom of eternal bondage."

REV. SAMUEL J. MAY’S REPORT.
A large and very respectable assemblage of our citizens filled the City Hall on Saturday evening, to listen to the report of Rev. Samuel J May, of his mission among the sick and wounded in the various hospitals at Washington, Yorktown and White House, in the capacity of agent to distribute articles of comfort on behalf of the Ladies' Relief Society of this city. The report was interesting, and quite satisfactory in its details, and exhibited the faithfulness with which the reverend gentleman discharged the important duties assigned to his charge. A large majority of the audience present were ladies, who have taken the most lively interest in this Good Samaritan work, the relief of our sick and wounded soldiers in the hospitals. It would require more space than we can appropriate this morning to follow the reverend gentleman through his lengthy report of his mission, and we must content ourselves with a brief notice of it, especially as so large a number of our citizens heard it from his own lips.
He was astonished at the patience exhibited by the sufferers, and the sights that met his eyes would remain fresh in his memory to his latest day. Thousands of soldiers crowded the hospitals in all horrible forms of suffering. Some shot through the head, the lungs, the chest, and various parts of the body; others having one, and in many instances both eyes carried away by the bullets of the enemy, and yet they lived on lingering and patient with hope. It was delightful to the heart of the philanthropist to see how eagerly the soldiers desired that the greatest sufferers were attended to first, forgetting their own wants and foregoing their own claims in pity and out of sympathy for their fellow-comrades in suffering. He counselled that the good work commenced by the Ladies' Relief Society be continued, and that articles of comfort in the way of good leather-soled slippers, colored flannel shirts, and the like, be provided, as they were the most needed by the sick and wounded soldiers. The articles of concentrated milk and soup were the most acceptable, and of the greatest service in the hospitals. The soldiers were very grateful for the nourishment dealt out to them in the way of bread and milk, as it reminded them of their homes. He stated that the Twelfth regiment had been in no important affair since the disastrous battle of Bull Run, except a few slight skirmishes; but the next battle would be the Battle of Despair, and our regiment will undoubtedly be in it, and its disastrous consequences will be the wounding of hundreds. He counselled the continuance of supplies, as they would undoubtedly be needed. Especially was food wanted of that nature that would be quickening to their appetites.
Mr. May answered the several questions put to him to the satisfaction of inquiring parties, and the success of his mission seemed to be highly gratifying and satisfactory throughout. The Reverend gentleman was taken sick at the stomach before he concluded his report, and was obliged to take his seat by an open window, where several ladies attended upon him, and sought to revive him. Owing to this fact, a motion was made to adjourn the meeting, and after a vote of thanks to the speaker, the meeting was dismissed.-Syracuse Courier and Union.
A correspondent of the same paper, referring to Mr. May's Report, pays him the following merited tribute:-
"The fidelity and earnestness with which that mission was performed,” and the genuine philanthropy which prompted it, commended the generous hearted man to my warm applause. The results of his mission were alike cheering to the friends of the poor soldier, to whose wants the Reverend gentleman contributed, and whose pains and griefs he assuaged to the extent of his ability. He was the man of all others to perform this labor of humanity and mercy on the fields of death and carnage. The bosom of no man in our beautiful and active city throbs with a larger heart; there is not one in our midst whose large benevolence is more unselfish and disinterested; his kind demeanor, his pure Christian character, and his humane and generous impulses-all point him out as a most suitable person to perform the work in which he engaged on going to the Potomac. If I were in the situation of the poor soldier, whom he described, as having both his eyes shot out, and his body riddled with bullets, with every prospect of death before him, I know of no man whose brotherly kindness, whose gentle ministrations and whose wise and holy counsels would be more apt to relieve the gloom of " the narrow house," and make my transit from time to eternity a pathway of hope, and happiness and peace, than the Reverend gentleman, to whose description of the wounded, the dying and the dead who were brought from the battle-field, I have this night listened."
Still, the writer holds Mr. May and the Abolitionists as fearfully responsible for the war!!!
<c05>
GOV. STANLY AND THE LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA.
Gov. Stanly will not allow negroes at Newbern to be taught to read and write, because the laws of North Carolina forbid it.
Let as see how this scrupulous functionary respects that fundamental law, the Constitution of North Carolina.
On the 31st of May, he directed the following note to be sent to Mr. Helper, a native-born citizen of North Carolina:-
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST MARSHAL, NEWBERN, N. C., MAY 31, 1862.
H. H. HELPER, Esq.:
SIR-I am instructed by his Excellency the Military Governor of the State of North Carolina, to inform you that he requires you to leave this department in the first vessel going North.
I am, very respectfully, yours 
DAN. MESSENGER, Provost Marshal.
Now, the Declaration of Rights of North Carolina declares:
“That no freeman ought to be taken, imprisoned, or disseized of his freehold, liberties or privileges, or outlawed OR EXILED, or in any manner destroyed or deprived of his life, liberty or property, but by the law of the land."
And the Constitution of North Carolina declares:-“The Declaration of Rights is hereby declared to be part of the Constitution of this State, and ought never to be violated ON ANY PRETENCE WHAT-EVER."
Gov. Stanly is only a specimen of that numerous class of politicians whose vision never embraces any laws except those which advance the interests of slaveholders.-Cleveland Leader.
GEN. BUTLER AND THE WOMEN. The order of Gen. Butler in relation to the women who insult our soldiers in New Orleans has been sharply criticised. A gentleman just returned from that city, where he has resided ever since the war broke out, says we can have no conception of the indignities our brave fellows were compelled to suffer at the hands of these fiends in petticoats. All sense of shame and decency appears to have departed out of them. They rival the most degraded street-walkers, not only in ribaldry, but in obscenity. Women who have been regarded as the pattern of refinement and good breeding, indulge in language towards our officers and men which no decent journalist would dare to put into print. Presuming upon the privileges of the sex, they not only assail them with the tongue, but with more material weapons. Buckets of slops are emptied upon them as they pass;-decayed oranges and rotten eggs are hurled at them; and every insult a depraved fancy can invent is offered to the hated Federals.
The forbearance of our troops, this gentleman says, is wonderful. They endure the jibes and persecutions of these unsexed wretches with a philosophy that none can overthrow. But the nuisance was fast becoming intolerable. The offenders were presuming upon the chivalry of the troops to commit physical assaults. Something like the order of General Butler became imperative. If women pretending to be decent imitated the conduct of "women of the town," it was proper that something like the same punishment should be meted out to them.-Albany Evening Journal.
In the British Parliament, a false and brutal construction has been placed upon the order of Gen. Butler, respecting this class of women, and he has been severely denounced by Palmerston and others.
The following is related of the Yankee soldiers and Secesh viragos at Norfolk:-"At Norfolk, a woman passing by two Union soldiers, gathered hastily her robes close to her side to prevent her garments being polluted by touching a soldier's coat. The soldiers stopped, and one said loudly, 'Ah, but a nice kind of woman is that; don't you see she has got some contagious disease, and is afraid we Union soldiers shall catch it from her?' The Secesh female looked mad enough at this interpretation of her folly. Another soldier passing on the sidewalk was also met by a similar Secesh woman, who deliberately marched into the street to avoid contact with him. ‘Excuse me Madam,' said the soldier, 'but I am a Union soldier, and not a Secesh soldier, such as you have been used to, and so I am not lousy.
An apology is made for refusing the use of Gen. Lee's mansion in Virginia as a hospital for the use of our wounded soldiers, who are lying in the miasmatic swamps around it, on the ground that it is out of regard to the associations with the memory of Washington, and not to the property of a traitor. The apology is worse than the original act. No property is too sacred to be used for the benefit of human beings. King David took the shew bread from the altar, and was held blameless. The Catholic Church, in the early periods of Christianity, took pride in selling the sacred vessels of the churches for the ransom of slaves. To make such an excuse as the above for holding a fine house sacred from human use, is contemptible. Were Washington himself alive, he would blush at the conduct of his descendants.-New Bedford Standard.
Some of the loyal border State members did not like the vote of the House, by which Robert Small and his heroic brother contrabands were awarded one half the value of the Steamboat Planter, which they ran off from Charleston harbor, and delivered to the U. S. fleet. Mr. Crittenden was particularly outraged at the "unconstitutionality" of the proceedings. When the rules were suspended for the purpose of taking up the bill, that gentleman took up his hat and left the hall, followed by some of the other loyal Kentucky members. At the door, a friend expostulated with him, but the testy old gentleman pushed muttering by. Only nine voted against the bill, among them Vallandigham, of course, and Philip Johnson of Pennsylvania. Many of those who opposed confiscation and emancipation on the ground of unconstitutionality a moment before, voted to grant Robert Small his freedom and half the value of the Planter, thereby confirming the right of Robert and all other loyal South Carolinians to confiscate vessels and slaves, a power they deny Congress and the President. 

SECRETARY WELLES ON FUGITIVES. Secretary Welles has addressed the following letter to Commodore Rowan, commanding the flotilla in the North Carolina Sounds:-

NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Jane 8,1862.SIR,-In your dispatch of the 17th ult. allusion is made to a conversation with Mr. Brooks, at Elizabeth City, N. C., relative to his efforts to obtain a favorite servant, supposed to be with the United States forces. As similar applications may frequently be made, it is proper to remind you that persons who have enlisted in the naval service cannot be discharged without the consent of the Department, and that no one should be " given up " against his wishes.
Very respectfully, GIDEON WELLES.
Captain J. C. ROWAN, Commanding Naval Forces, North Carolina Sounds.
HORRIBLE ACCIDENT IN BRIDGEWATER. A boiler explosion occurred in the iron works of Lazell, Perkins & Co., in Bridgewater, about nine o'clock on Monday morning, killing six workmen, and more or less injuring several others.
Messrs. Lazell, Perkins & Co., who have a store at No. 28 Broad Street in this city, were apprised of the accident by telegraph, and have sent a surgeon to attend the wounded.
The boiler was attached to the forge shop, which is a short distance from the railroad depot.
The names of the killed are William Carson, Thomas Casey, Dennis McCarty, John Davan, Felix Kelly and John Pickett.
Samuel Washburn was mortally wounded;-
Wiley, dangerously; and John Crossley, A. D. Robinson, Charles T. Hall, Jeremiah Lynch and Frank Casey, seriously.
All these men, we understand, were at work inside the forge shop, about a large trip-hammer. The building was badly damaged, one end being blown out and the roof shattered. The iron works are very extensive, and form a group of buildings near the railroad, the forge-shop being in the centre. They are kept in operation all the time for government, and employ a large force of men.

PICKED UP AT SEA. Capt. Conway of the brig Drummond, arrived on Monday from Aspinwall, reports: June 15, lat 25 20, long. 79 40, 180 miles from land, picked up an escaped slave from Havana, and brought him to this port. He had been six days in a canoe, without food or water. He talks but little English, and says he came from Africa to Havana in a slaver about two months ago.
The President has approved the act passed by Congress to secure freedom in all the Territories of the United States. The bill consists of a single section, and provides-" That from and after the passage of this act, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of the Territories of the United States now existing, or which may at any time hereafter be formed or acquired by the United States, otherwise than in punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted."
The trial of Appleton Oaksmith, formerly of Portland, on a charge of fitting out a vessel for the slave trade, was concluded before the U. S. Circuit Court in Boston, on Saturday, 14th inst., and a verdict of " guilty " rendered.
<c06>
"ON TO RICHMOND"-OUR ADVANCE BEGUN
Despatches from Gen. McClellan June 25, state-“The enemy are making a desperate resistance to the advance of our picket times Kearney's and one half of Hooker's divisions are where I want them. Our men are behaving splendidly; the enemy are fighting well, also. This is not a battle-merely an affair of Heintzelman's corps supported by Keyes, and thus far all goes well, and we hold every foot of ground we have gained. If we succeed in what we have undertaken, it will be a very important advent age gained. Loss not large thus far. The fighting up to this time has been done by Gen. Hooker’s division, which has behaved as usual-that is, most handsomely."
Gee. McClellan's last dispatch, June 25-5, P. M., says-“The affair is over, and we have gained' oar point fully, with but little loss, notwithstanding the strong opposition. Our men have done all that could be disired.' The affair was partiallially decided by two guns that Capt. Deerusy [Dusenbury] brought gallantly into action, under very difficult circumstances." 

WOMAN AND THE PRESS.
On Friday afternoon. May 30, a meeting was held in Studio Building, Boston, for conference in regard to a new periodical to be devoted to the interests of Woman. While none questioned the value and the need of such an instrument in the Woman's Rights cause, the difficulties that would endanger or even defeat the enterprise were fully discussed, but with this issue-that the experiment should be made. For the furtherance, therefore, of so desirable an object, we insert and call attention to the following
PROSPECTUS OF THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
When we consider that there is scarcely a party, sect, business organization or reform which is not represented in the press, it appears strange that women, constituting one half of humanity, should have, no organ, in America, especially devoted to the promotions of their interests, particularly as these interests have excited more wide spread attention in this country than in any other, while in no other country can the double power of free speech and a free press be made so effective in their behalf. This appears stranger from the fact that conservative England has successfully supported a journal of this sort for years 
with acknowledged utility.
America needs such a journal to centralize and give impetus to the efforts which are being made in various directions to advance the interests of woman. It needs it most of all at this time, when the civil war is calling forth the capabilities of woman in an unwonted degree, both as actors and sufferers-when so many on both sides are seen to exert a most potent influence over the destinies of the nation, while so many others are forced by the loss of husbands, sons and brothers, to seek employment for the support of themselves and families. Social problems, too, are gradually becoming solved by the progress of events, which will leave to that of woman the most prominent place henceforth.
To meet this want of the times, we propose to establish a WOMAN'S JOURNAL, based on the motto, "Equal Rights for all Mankind," and designed especially to treat of all questions pertaining to the interests of women, and to furnish an impartial platform for the free discussion of these interests in their various phases. It will aim to collect and compare the divers theories promulgated on the subject, to chronicle and centralize the efforts made in behalf of women, in this country and elsewhere, and to render all possible aid to such undertakings, while at the same time it will neglect no field of intellectual effort or human progress of general interest to men of culture. It will comprise reviews of current social and political events, articles on literature, education, hygiene, etc., a feuilleton, composed chiefly of translations from foreign literature-in short, whatever may contribute to make it a useful and entertaining family paper. Its columns will be open, and respectful attention insured, to all thinkers on the subjects of which it treats, under the usual editorial discretion, only requiring that they shall accept, a priori, the motto of the paper, and shall abstain from all personal discussion. 
Among the contributors already secured to the Journal whom we are permitted to name, are Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Miss Elizabeth Palmer Peabody, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, George Wm. Curtis, T. W. Higginson, Moncure D. Conway, Theodore Tilton, and William H. Channing; and other distinguished writers have promised us their aid. No pains will be spared to enlist the best talent in the country, and to make the paper one of literary merit as well as practical utility.
The Journal will be issued semi-monthly, in octavo form, sixteen pages, at Two Dollars per annum, the first number appearing on the 1st of October next, and will be published in Boston.
Subscriptions will be received from this date by agents of the Journal or by the Editors, Roxbury, Mass., lockbox 2, to be paid on the receipt of the first number of the Journal. In this connection, we would earnestly solicit the co-operation of friends of woman throughout the country, in extending the subscription list of the Journal, and thus placing it on that permanent basis which will insure its continued utility and success. Those interested in the enterprise are respectfully requested to communicate with the editors at the above address.
A discount of twenty-five per cent. will be made to agents. Agents will please return all prospectuses with name before the 15th of July.
MARY L. BOOTH,
MARIE E. ZAKBZBWSKA, M. D.
Boston, May 15, 1862.
ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION AND PIC-NIC.-By invitation of Rev. Elam Burnham, the friends and lovers of freedom will hold an Anti-Slavery gathering on his premises, in Hamilton, on Sunday, the sixth day of July, commencing at 10 o'clock in the forenoon. Should the day prove favorable, it is confidently expected that a large concourse will be present from the surrounding towns.
It is proposed that all attending should furnish their own refreshments, the place being at some distance from the village, in the south-easterly part of the town.
PARKER PILLSBURY, C. L. REMOND and other speakers are expected to address the Convention.
NASHUA, N. H.-PARKER PILLSBURY will give two addresses on " The Country and the Times," in Nashua, (N. H.) Town Hall, on Sunday afternoon and evening, 22d instant, at the usual hours of public assembly.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Quincy, Sunday, June 29, at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and at half-past 2, P. M.
The P. 0. address of Mrs. CAROLINE H. DALL is changed from No. 5 Ashland Place, to Medford Mass
Books, pamphlets, and matters requiring literary attention, may be left with Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington street, Boston.
NOTICE.-All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington St., Boston.
HANDBILLS of the Fourth of July Celebration at Framingham Grove have been seat to friends in many places, who will please help forward the meeting by posting them in their respective towns.

REMOVAL-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.-MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M. 3m March 28.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
SUMMER RESORT-ROUND HILL HOTEL. NORTH-AMPTON, Mass.-Terms-$1.50 par day, or 7 to $10 per week.
"Here Nature is clothed in her most attractive garb; and woods, glens, brooks and flowers, each contributes its part to make Round Hill a delightful spot for all, whether invalids seeking health or others searching for pleasure.”
Home Journal.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry. 
For the Liberator.
JOHN BROWN AVENGED.
Said ye, ”John Brown is dead”? 
Even so the murderers said
At Cavalry;
Nor was the boast more vain
Than theirs who here grew fain,
Exulting they had slain
Their enemy.
For as that cross of shame
Forever thence became
Earth's holiest shrine;
So must this gallows tree,
Redeemed from infamy,
Become to bond and free
A sacred sign.
And he that on it hung,
Mocked by the taunting tongue
And tearless eye,
And pay his agony,
Hath plucked from that death-tree
An immortality
That cannot die.
Though to the felon given
With shame and wrath, to him
With honor rife:
Where guilt, with shudd'ring breaths 
Sees but the beam of death,
He found, through deathless faith,
A tree of life.
Not even dead to earth;
Nay, he hath gained new birth 
Through martyrdom; 
And buried though he be,
Forever speaketh he,
Saying to the slave, ”Be free!!
Your hour has come!"
And come indeed it hath,
The day of righteous wrath
On Tyranny;
Armies prepare its tomb,
And tramp and cannon's boom 
Proclaim th' impending doom
Of Slavery.
Quick hath the reckoning come 
The o'erpushed pendulum
Swings back amain;
And Freedom, stung to strife
For her imperilled life,
Avenges to the knife
Her martyrs slain.
Now shall their stripes and chains,
Now shall their dying pains, 
Be recompensed!
Ten thousand miscreant lives,
Ten thousand widowed wives,
With thraldom's broken gyres,
Balanced against.
Woe to the guilty land
Where Treason's impious hand
Strikes Freedom down!
See! from the outraged North,
From flood and field and hearth,
A million foes leap forth
For one John Brown!
Let the profane stand back!
God ruleth, and they lack
The skill to read
The writing on the wall,
Of proud Oppression's fall,
And freedom to the thrall
By Him decreed.
Aye-not in aimless wrath
He chastens, though His path
Be in the storm;
The sky shall clear again,
And from this bloody rain,
O'er all yon slave-cursed plain
Shall spring Reform.
Danvers. BENJAMIN H. CLARK 
For the Liberator.
CHIVALRY.
A mailed horseman rode along a plain,
Thick forests scowled on it, and castles grim;
Knights fought upon it as their trade and gain;
Slaves tilled it from the centre to the rim.
Each warrior there was lawgiver and law-
His sword, the oracle of right and wrong;
His wealth, what he could grapple with the claw
Of force, and wrest from the surrounding throng.
The man in mail said, musing on the scene,
"I, too, am one of these, and wear a sword;
But ’tis not mine-to Right belongs its sheen,
Its every stroke to Justice and the Lord."
He raised it then for Beauty in distress;
For Honor threatened, stricken Piety;
And roughly strove, as best he knew, to bless
The world-and this was ancient Chivalry.
In later days stood up a strong, kind man,
In Freedom's land, of Freedom slothful grown,
And smote injustice with the Christian ban
Of honest words, and even smote it down,-
And bent his life to lift the poorest low:-
Some laughed, some called his work philanthropy;
But in his breast, and on his thoughtful brow,
There beamed the glory of all Chivalry.
Troy. C.

For the Liberator.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
O, Abraham Lincoln! from your sleep awake!
Will ye still be like Pharaoh of old,
Until the judgments of the Lord shall shake
Our nation's fabric from its tottering hold?
Speak but the word the Lord to thee hath given-
"Release my people from their bondage sore,"
Ere shall go forth from out the throne of Heaven
The appalling mandate that was heard of yore.
How long shall we in anxious hope remain?
Alas! our fear already drowns our hope:
Undo the heavy burdens and the chain,
And from the weary slave remove the yoke.
Spare, too, more blood, more sacrifice of life;
Our land already heaves with sighs and groans;
Thy word alone can end the bloody strife:
Heed thou the orphan's and the widow's moans!
New Bedford, June 18, 1862. D. R.
From the New York Independent.
THE TRAITOR'S HOME.
Written after a visit to the desolate house of James M. Mason.
On Mason's home the sunlight falls,
But not as once it fell;
Grim shadows cloud the cheerless walls,
And the east wind to the west wind calls
Through the broken casements and ruined halls,
As it echoes the traitor's knell.
Thick crowding fancies throng my brain,
While thoughtful here I stand;
I people these ancient rooms again,
Light forms move swift to a music strain-
But I feel a blight of a deathless stain,
The clasp of a traitor's hand.
And here, where beauty decks the earth,
A traitor's feet have trod;
Here had that hellish treason birth
That perilled freedmen, blackened worth,
Brought ruin to the cotter's hearth,
And dared the wrath of God.
0 Liberty! methinks I see
Thy gleaming banners come;
Thou free-born mother of the free,
We consecrate to heaven and thee
This ”sacred soil,” no more to be
The coward-traitor's home.
Winchester, (Va.) 1862. MRS. M. A. DENISON.
<c02>
The Liberator. 
HOPE, TRUST AND PATIENCE.
The time is at hand when all true-hearted American citizens should take courage. The ”sum of all villanies" is soon to be among the things that were. A new era dawns on our glorious Republic. Freedom will be the rule, and no longer, as in times past, the exception. North, South, East and West shall again join hands, when the nation will emerge from its untold disgraces and sacrifices into dignity and splendor. “There is a Divinity which shapes our ends," and we, the people, President, military chieftains, slaveholders, rebels, the legislature and judiciary, bogus Democrats and vacillating Republicans, may” rough-hew” them as we will, still God in his inapproachable light and majesty reigns, and through His providence over rules and disposes. Never through pulpit, through press, through the teachings of the schools, through literature or art, did a people enjoy a fairer opportunity to study the evidence in all parts of this agitated land of the presence of Divine superintending power. Amidst such unparalleled efforts in eighty years to organize society with us, and to erect a nation in a wilderness, scarcely has the Church been able to preserve the great truth that God rules and reigns. Actors and instruments, as we have all been in this great business, with faces turned earthward, with brains, arms and hands intent on the conquest of material nature, there now comes a cessation from these labors. Nature has in part yielded up her stores of wealth to industry. A period of reflection succeeds a period of activity, and out of the clash of arms and ideas will arise, it is hoped, a new era, in which broader and higher views of man's rights and destiny shall receive a more hearty recognition. Then will this people be great and free, respected at home and abroad, united, brave, powerful and just. Democracy in its noblest and best sense shall rule the country, no longer divided against itself.
Short of a result so glorious, no American citizen should rest satisfied. Short of this, to be a nation without perpetual faction and anarchy is impossible with us. Without a result like this, no expenditure of blood and treasure can ever be worth the cost. Who of us will consent to reestablish the United States of the last quarter of a century? None but traitors. And who believes that a result so desirable can, by any possibility,-even with all the wisdom of Kentucky and Abraham Lincoln,-be reached short of the use of the Constitutional and legitimate means possessed by our Government to crush or to create and use any and all powers to this end?
Till this rebellion is made to bite the dust, no wholesome word can bear more frequent repetition than that which should be proclaimed in thunder tones, that slavery is the cause and root of the rebellion; and no theory based on a knowledge of facts can be so tenable as that which avers that slavery and rebellion must sink together into a common grave.
Thank God, the sufferings of the nation in one short year are fast producing this conviction. In the loyal Northern States it is all but unanimous. In the pseudo-loyal Border States, the conviction is fast growing; and in the Cotton States, even, it cannot now be a matter of indifference, with all their insanity. A few more rebel barbarities in the heat of desperation; drinking cups and keepsakes wrought out of the bones of our noble dead; the butchery of wounded soldiers; poisoned wells and treacherous torpedoes; cruelties to the imprisoned, at which even barbarism itself should blush,-these and many more wickednesses, too gross to be recorded, pass in review, and remind us that something sterner than a” military necessity” will yet arm the Government with power to overthrow this accursed rebellion by the speediest means. With slavery abolished in the District of Columbian event of itself at any time of the highest significance-and prohibited entrance to the Territories, the provision for the suppression of the foreign slave-trade, the confiscation question in Congress, proclamations of freedom by Generals and the revocation of the same, the experiment of free labor at Port Royal, and last, though not least, the insulting application of the Fugitive Slave Law in the District, which the people had fondly thought forever free by act of the present Congress,-all these are fast opening the understandings of the people to the true cause of our troubles. A few months more of rebellion, coupled with the observation and reflection of the people, with the help of conventions and mass meetings all over the North and in the States which now show signs of returning loyalty, and the President may feel warranted to declare a definite policy in this direction, and bring about unity of action between himself and his generals at the head of the armies.
Seeing that the course of events is tending to this end about as fast as Providence usually works, we can afford “to labor and to wait." In the mean time, questions will arise. Individuals and organizations will look at them in the light of their respective proclivities; some will fasten upon details, the more querulous will make themselves cognizant of the phrase which indicates the method, and it will become to such matter of immense importance whether the slave finally gets “abolishment" or abolition. Still, all will observe and think and work finally to the same end, only differing as to means to which in this stage of the “abolishment" of slavery we can afford to be indulgent. To the more philosophically inclined, questions reaching into the future will all the while suggest themselves; but, so fast as philosophy becomes practical, it will be seen that but one question at a time can receive undivided attention, and that the future will bring with it its own light to guide us, or those, who come after us.
To end this rebellion, and make the country free and united, is the only question now. Let the “Union, the Constitution, and the Laws," be as ever the watchwords with both soldier and citizen; but let the Union be one in reality, the Constitution with a free and not with a slaveholder's interpretation, and the Laws bear with equal justice. While the struggle with rebellion-goes on, let the names of Fremont, Hunter and Sigel remind us of the true significance of the "stars and stripes," destined as we may fondly hope to wave over a nation that shall be free indeed. Let us be patient, but not idle, while the contest lasts, and remember that not more to military power than to the revolution of opinion should be credited the suppression of the rebellion, and the final restoration of peace under democratic rule in its broadest sense.
P. S. Since the above was written, the country has another example-in the earliest attempt of Gov. Stanly at the performance of his official duties in North Carolina-to add to many others which prove that no reliance can be placed upon professions of loyalty among slaveholders or their sypathizers. They are of the same stripe wherever found, whether in border or cotton States. Their problem always was, is, and ever will be, to get under that kind of government-regardless of form or name-in which their views shall make the controlling element in which they can best rule or ruin, while they secure the amplest protection to their beloved “institution."
It is idle to talk of union, in contradistinction to secession slaveholders. Neither are to be trusted. Both have been trained under the same influences, and are equally selfish and despotic in their tendencies. The country cannot prosper while the occasion exists for these two classes of men. What happened at Newborn only goes to show what they will do when not restrained. No wonder that the foremost nations of Europe call us “belligerents” and refuse sympathy to the North. Why should these nations fail to discover that we are fighting for an immortal truth while neither people nor government have, up to this moment, had courage to openly proclaim either a cause for or a policy toward this infernal rebellion? France and England, and we as a people in our con sciences, know that the rebellion is not uncaused. It will be well for the Northern mind, when it fully awakes to the fact of the more than iron grasp which
<c03>

the slaveholder yet has upon it. The sooner we break away from the delusion, that an act of justice on the part of this nation, to a greatly oppressed people within its borders, can be held by any, except slaveholders and traitors, to be a violation of the Constitution-torn to tatters and trampled upon by these very traitors and their abettors in rebellion-the sooner we shall have the respect from abroad we so much crave. This country, hereafter, will never be broad enough to hold within its embrace, as it has done, the two incompatible elements of freedom and slavery. One or the other must die. When and which shall it be? W.

ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
 The annual meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society was held at Century Chapel, in Essex, June 15, 1862.
The meeting was called to order by C. L. Remond, the President. In the absence of the Secretary, Joseph Merrill of Danvers was chosen Secretary protem.
It was then voted, that a Committee to nominate officers be appointed by the chair. 
Joseph Merrill, Warren Low of Essex, and Henry Elwell of Manchester were named as this Committee, and accepted by the meeting. Before this Committee withdrew for consultation, C. L. Redmond declined to be a candidate for President
Henry C. Wright presented the following resolutions for the consideration of the meeting:-
Whereas, Congress has the constitutional power to establish a “uniform rule of naturalization"; and whereas, there are but two classes of persons in the nation, recognized by the Constitution-i.e., aliens and citizens; and whereas, the slaves are all citizens or aliens; and whereas, if aliens, Congress has power to naturalize them, and to declare them citizens; and whereas, if being born in the nation and under the Constitution makes a man a citizen, and entitles him to the rights and privileges of citizenship, the slaves are entitled to such rights and privileges; therefore,
Resolved, That it is the constitutional right and moral duty of Congress at once to pass an act, declaring the slaves citizens of the United States, and to secure to them the rights and privileges of such citizenship.
Resolved, That it is the constitutional right and moral duty of Congress, by special enactment, to declare every person under its jurisdiction, without regard to color or condition, competent to sue and be sued, and to hear witness in all the courts of the United States, in whatever State such courts may be held.
H. C. Wright commented briefly on the above, and was followed in an eloquent manner by A. T. Foss.
AFTERNOON SESSION. Mr. Pillsbury presented four resolutions for the consideration of the meeting, as follows:-
1. Resolved, That, as Abolitionists devoted to the great work of overthrowing slavery, we renew and repeat our old pledge,” No Union with Slaveholders." No support of any administration, or government, that permits slavery, on any portion of its soil-and we value this war only as we believe it must lead to Emancipation by order of the Federal authorities, or to a dissolution of the Union, which must speedily produce the same result.
2. Resolved, That the war, as hitherto prosecuted, is but a wanton waste of property, a dreadful sacrifice of life, and, worse than all, of conscience and character, to preserve and perpetuate a Union and Constitution which should never have existed, and which, by all the laws of justice and humanity, should, in their present form, be at once and forever overthrown.
3. Resolved, That any reconstruction of the government on the former basis, or any basis that permits the holding of a single slave, in any State, District or Territory, or a war waged for such a purpose, should, and eventually will, consign us, as a people, to the scorn and execration of all the decent and virtuous among mankind, throughout the nations of the earth.
4. Resolved, That a church and ministry that could practise as well as sustain and sanctify the slave system, through successive generations, breeding, buying and selling slaves, robbing them not only of wages, but of education, of marriage, and all the rights and privileges of human beings, and could then almost instantaneously become soldiers to butcher and be butchered by their fellow-communicants and brethren, are a church and ministry that have too long deceived the nations: by their unfaithfulness and falsehoods, they are, to a fearful extent, the cause of our present national calamity; and since, even now, while we are so terribly suffering the Divine displeasure, they fail to proclaim righteousness and repentance, the doing of justice and loving mercy, irrespective of all “military necessities" or political expediencies, they prove that, as an institution, they should be utterly and forever repudiated, along with the slave system they have so long and so faithfully served and supported.
After the resolutions were read, Mr. Pillsbury made a very able appeal to the people to wake to the alarming state of affairs.
H. C. Wright then spoke on the barbarities of slavery, and the indignities and insults practised on our wounded and dead soldiers.
The Business Committee reported the following names as officers for the ensuing year:-
President-Richard Plumer, of Newburyport.
Vice Presidents-D. P. Harmon, Haverhill; Moses Wright, Georgetown; Edward N. Andrews, Essex; William Ashby, Newburyport; Thomas Haskell, Gloucester; D. L. Bingham, Manchester; Elam Burn-ham, Hamilton; John Cutler, Danvers; J. N. Buffum, Lynn; William Jenkins, Andover; Joshua P. 
Ordway, Groveland;-Pratt, Rockport.
Executive Committee-Maria S. Page, Danvers; John B. Pierce, Lynn; Lucy P. Ives, Salem; Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester; Joseph Pierce, Manchester; Joseph Merrill, Danvers; Ingalls K. McIntyre, Salem.
Treasurer-J. W. Roberts, Danvers.
Corresponding Secretary-Sarah P. Remond, Salem.
Recording Secretary-Margaret E. Bennett, Gloucester.
Voted, That these officers be accepted.
C. L. Remond made an eloquent and stirring speech.
EVENING SESSION. Called to order by Thomas Haskell, in absence of the President. The resolutions of Mr. Pillsbury were again read, and A. T. Foss spoke on them. He took exception to the second resolution. Mr. F. said, we stand here, to-day, to reassert the strong sentiments we have heretofore asserted. We recant nothing. We say now, the Constitution is “a covenant with death and an agreement with hell." Mr. Garrison did right to burn it, in the presence of two thousand people, as he did a few years ago at Framingham.
A Voice.-Why is Mr. Phillips in favor of the Union now?
Mr. Foss replied-In so far as the nation is at war with slavery, Mr. Phillips approves, and does right. Shall we not rejoice in every right action, even if those who do these right acts are guilty of doing many wrong ones? Approving the right does by no means imply countenancing everything done, however wrong it may be.
Mr. F. alluded to the instincts of man as worthy of notice. The instincts of slaves tell them this war is to bring them freedom; and, notwithstanding all the discouragements they meet with on the part of the government, they still cling to the idea. One poor ignorant slave, believing the appellation in so common use at the South to be part of the Yankee name, prayed, “Lor' bress the damned Yankees!"
The old Union is dead: of this there is the same evidence that there was of the death of Lazarus. If not dead, why appoint a military Governor of North Carolina?
We have not backed down from our principles.
<c04>
There is great Anti-Slavery gain. We have not gone down, but the people have come up.
H. C. Wright followed in a few remarks. He thought it evidence of some life to excite the hearty disapproval of slaveholders. The Constitution now empowers Congress to abolish slavery; therefore, it is an Anti-Slavery document. Let the feeling of death to slavery be put forth first on the ground of justice and right, and then on the ground of expediency. Let it be asked, what is this war for? Is it for liberty?
Sumner's letter, in palliation of President Lincoln, was called for, and read in part.
Parker Pillsbury followed, and asserted that Lincoln is the greatest slaveholder in the nation-i.e., he holds the greatest number in bondage. In proof of this, he cited the revoking of Hunter's order which freed the slaves in his department. “No Union with Slaveholders!” must still be our watchword.
He considered Abraham Lincoln justifiable from his position in prosecuting a war against slaveholders who are attempting to overthrow this government; but he would not have him so crouching before the Slave Power as to offer to deliver up seventeen pirates to regain Col. Corcoran.
Mr. P. read from the Anti-Slavery Standard a letter from the Washington correspondent of that paper, (a Republican,) in which he laments the want of policy on the part of the government.
Mr. P. read Burnside's and Goldsboro's proclamation to North Carolinians, in which they say, “We are Christians as well as yourselves." He warned the people against settling down into a feeling of security, as if all were going on prosperously, for the attempt will certainly be made to reinstate the Democratic party, and, if successful, much that has been done by this administration would be undone. Beware of the Knights of the Golden Circle, and the like secret associations, plotting mischief to this government. He wished us to remember, that though
"Cannon balls may aid the truth,
Thought’s a weapon stronger.”
He referred to a lecture of Mr. Phillips, entitled “The Lost Arts," and hoped Mr. Phillips would include repentance. He alluded to a Virginian employed in constructing one of our government vessels, who, in an important part, where great strength was required, introduced plaster so painted and polished off as to resemble iron, which was the material required. This imposition was discovered, however, in time to prevent disaster. Our fathers, when they laid the ship of state, instead of good iron, introduced a preparation of plaster in the form of compromises with slavery; and now, when the old ship lies in scattered fragments, Abraham Lincoln, instead of constructing a ship of sounder materials, is out with all his jolly-boats, trying to pick up the fragments to set out as before.
Voted to accept the resolutions of H. C. Wright and Parker Pillsbury.
Voted, That the next meeting of this Society be held at Haverhill, three months from this day.
Voted, That this report be sent to the Liberator for publication. Adjourned.
RICHARD PLUMER, President.
MARGARET E. BENNETT, Rec. Sec.

MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
Pursuant to a call through the public journals of Buffalo, N. Y., a large and highly respectable number of colored citizens of that place assembled at the old Court House, on Sunday evening, 18th ult., together with a large number of our white citizens, for the purpose of commemorating the “Emancipation of Slavery in the District of Columbia. "The meeting was called to order by Mr. George Weir, Jr., and pursuant to previous arrangements, was presided over by Mr. N. D. Thompson, supported by a number of Vice Presidents. The meeting being duly organized, on motion, the Secretary, Mr. John H. Burch, read the call upon which the meeting had assembled, together with a series of resolutions adopted at a prior meeting, and also the Act of Emancipation. The audience then joined in singing the following hymn, written for the occasion by Mrs. Nancy M. Weir:-
We meet, 0 Lord, to offer thee
Unnumbered thanks and praise;
The District of Columbia's free
Through thy prevailing grace.
The Morning Star of. Liberty
In this great act we see;
Freedom's bright day is soon to be:-
Columbia's soil is free!
No more the scars of servile chains
On human limbs shall be,
Within the limits of thy bounds,-
Columbia's land is free!
God bless the Nation's honored Chief!
Thy servant may he be,
Who wisely has advised relief,
Columbia's soil to free.
May those who now in bondage sigh
Rejoice with us to see
The good old Stars and Stripes on high-
Thank God! Columbia's free!
Lord, with united heart and voice,
The praise we give to thee!
Let every one in truth rejoice!
Columbia now is free!
After which, the throne of Grace was fervently addressed by the Rev. A. S. Brokenborough. The Rev. George Weir then read a select portion of Scripture, and preached a very able and interesting sermon from these words-" Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." The remarks of the reverend gentleman were listened to with the strictest attention throughout the entire discourse, which was an effort worthy the head and heart of the venerable author. At the close of the sermon, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered by the meeting, and briefly responded to by the speaker. The following resolutions were then offered by Prof. Hall, and unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That as we find from history that in East Asia and Africa the arts and sciences flourished in their greatest grandeur and perfection of any period or country known to man; we therefore recognize in the African race, untrammeled and free, a capacity for improvement and progress equal if not surpassing any other race now inhabiting this globe.
Resolved, That, whereas, the ministry and churches of the Northern States have cooperated with the Southern churches and ministry in extending and prolonging this great national sin, we therefore call on the ministers and churches in the land to appoint a special day of humiliation, fasting and prayer to Almighty God that he would forgive them this great sin, and from henceforth forever blot it out from the book of his remembrance.
Resolved, That this meeting appoint a Committee to draft a resolution of thanks to Congress and the President for their noble and philanthropic action in abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia.
Resolutions of thanks were then presented to the Sheriff and his assistants for the use of the Court House, and to the press of the city for having kindly given gratuitous notice of the meeting. The congregation then joined in singing the closing hymn, entitled “The.Captive's Song," written by Mrs. Weir. The benediction then closed the exercises of the evening.
"HARMONY GROVE."
"Roll on the Liberty Ball!"
True, we are not at our next annual gathering, in God's beautiful temple, to celebrate the abolition of American Slavery; but are we not nearer, may we not hope much nearer, that joyful event, than our doubts will allow us to believe? God grant it may be so! Let us be as hopeful as we can, and at the same time remember that there was never an hour in our warfare when we should labor with more zeal and faithfulness.
Suffer not, for a moment, the thought that we may lay our armor by, or in the least relax our efforts for the sighing captive. On every band we still meet with the latent hatred of the negro, and of the faithful advocates of his race. The Government and Church are still in the “gall of bitterness." We must, therefore, reiterate our testimony, and preach from place to place the “unsearchable riches” of universal, unconditional and immediate emancipation.
<c05>
And if, as our honored friend, CHARLES SUMNER, In his recent letter more than intimates, the President is at heart on the side of Liberty, and so near the kingdom, let us rally in unwonted numbers, on the Fourth of July, at Framingham, and swell the current so strong that Washington may feel its power, and Abraham Lincoln find his tongue loosened, and his pen moving to write the immortal word-EMANCIPATION! 
G. W. S.

LETTER FROM NORTH CAROLINA.
NEWBERN, N. C., June I3, 1862.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
Considerable surprise is manifested at the unwarranted and scurrilous correspondence of the New York Herald from this place, relative to Gov. Stanly's proceedings. Its slurs at General Burnside are ridiculous as well as strictly untrue in their reflections, and the attack upon Massachusetts soldiers has not the slightest foundation or excuse. What could have instigated the writing of such a tissue of misrepresentations is what causes the greater wonder, unless the writer should prove to be some resident Secessionist who thus found vent for his rage over the exceeding good nature of the military leader here.
Now here are the facts relative to this affair: Among Mr. Bray's considerable body of negroes were two young females, who were valued at $2,500. Mr. B. got track of these two. He captured one, and the other escaped narrowly, and is now far away. The one captured was married, and after her return to her master's house, her negro husband determined to release her. He visited the premises, as Mrs. Bray asserts, accompanied by five soldiers who had the letter “M" and a bugle on their caps, and they “insulted” her, set fire to an outhouse a long distance from the house of Mr. B. (not his residence as asserted by the correspondent), and took away the slave. The house set fire to was an old building not worth a farthing, and it was fired by the negro, probably in a not very commendable spirit of revenge. 
As to the soldiers, there is not a regiment here from Massachusetts that wears a cap after the style described. But one infantry regiment here (not from New England) numbers its companies down farther than “K," (ten companies,) consequently the letter “M” is not on the cap of any Massachusetts or New England soldier. [It should be understood that these letters indicate the company which the soldier belongs to.] This was investigated at the time, as some violent Secessionists undertook to assert then that it was “Massachusetts thieves" that took the negro away, but it was plainly settled that there was no proof that a soldier from the Commonwealth had been there, and there was only the assertion of this Mrs. Bray, that any soldiers had been to her house at all.
Now this woman who had been so troubled by the sight of soldiers, is the same who has for a long time made a practise of regularly calling upon Mr. Colyer, the Superintendent of the Poor, for her allowance of provisions. She would drive up in a two horse team, secure her plunder and drive away, always with the air of an offended princess if any one failed to treat her with distinction. She thus sponged the United States Government, when her husband owned a large plantation, with nearly fifty acres under cultivation, and was able to furnish her with her carriage and two horses. And again, when a certain gentleman who was investigating the above circumstances called upon her, she, in her frantic mode, offered him five hundred dollars to put out of the way the same negro, who was the husband of her runaway slave. Such are the facts, and still more may be forthcoming to prove the inconsistencies of these immaculate people. 
SCOUT.
For the “scurrilous correspondence” here referred to, see “Refuge of Oppression."
THE NEW YORK JOURNAL OF COMMERCE.
In a recent number of this miserable pro-slavery and secession print, the editorial vials of wrath were poured upon the head of Mr. George Thompson, to whose speeches on the other side of the Atlantic the present crisis is attributed. As a specimen of the writer's veracity, we may state that the alleged quid pro quo for his first American trip, when his life was hunted for, and a reward of $5,000 was offered for his apprehension, was an immediate seat in Parliament for the Tower Hamlets, procured him by the government. The facts are these: Mr. Thompson's return to England was in 1835; his election for the Tower Hamlets was in 1847; the immediate seat in Parliament was therefore twelve years afterwards. On that occasion, moreover, he defeated one of the then ministers, Major General Fox, the Master-General of the Ordinance, and who was also a son-in-law of King William the Fourth. In 1851, Mr. Thompson again visited the United States, which journey led to the loss of his seat for this same, the largest borough constituency of the United Kingdom. Mr. Thompson was always in opposition to the government, and never received a favor at the hands of either Whig or Tory. How can we believe such writers, even
-"when they should state the thing that's true”?
There is a secondary sense in which the wrath of man is made to praise God's servants as well as God himself. Mixed with this compound of folly and lying is a remarkable testimony to the truth that the measure for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and the admission of colored persons in the American postal service, are fruits of the marvellous eloquence of our gifted countryman during his two transatlantic visits. We hope he will ere long reap his crowning glory in the abolition of slavery throughout the entire American continent.-Clerkenwell (London) News.
A CLERICAL FALSIFIER. Lieut. Kennett, superintending the United States ordnance department at Nashville, Tenn., in the discharge of his duty, had occasion to examine the premises of that hot-bed of rebellion, the “Southern Methodist Publishing House." One of the clerical managers took the lieutenant into the basement, where machinery had been placed for manufacturing certain parts of confederate ordnance, and began explaining that certain bolts and screws were used in stereotyping, and this and that in the printing business, and soon through quite a list of articles. After the reverend had finished his explanation, the lieutenant said to him, “I judge, sir, by your white cravat and dress that you profess to be a clergyman; now let me tell you, sir, that every sentence you have uttered is a tissue of falsehoods; I have been educated for the ordnance department, and I know where every one of those bolts, nuts, and screws belongs on a gun-carriage. Good morning, sir!"
PREACHERS. Parson Brownlow is not very complimentary to gentlemen of “the cloth." In a late speech at Cincinnati he said:-
"The worst men in the Southern Confederacy are Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, and Episcopalian preachers. They drink and swear week days, and preach Sundays. When they became secesh, they bade farewell to honesty, truth, and decency. The Confederacy originated in lying, stealing and perjury. Floyd did the stealing, the common masses the lying, and fourteen Senators from the cotton States the perjury-the latter class while still retaining their seats in the United States Senate, and making a pretence of observing their oaths, but at night, till twelve o'clock, holding secret meetings, sending dispatches to their respective States to pass ordinances of secession, to seize forts, &c., &c.
"Among other instances illustrating the spirit prevailing among the Southern clergy, Mr. Brown-low said that the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Knoxville called a Union prayer-meeting to pray that Gen. Burnside's fleet might sink, and the blockade be raised. The same minister had said that he would rather use a Bible printed and bound in hell than one from the North. Also that Jesus Christ was born on Southern soil, and that all his apostles were Southern men except Judas Iscariot, who was a Northern man. This was said openly, from his pulpit on Sunday."
BRUTALIZED CLERGYMEN.-The Washington Republican says:-
“In all the outrages at Leesburg, the clergymen of that vicinity, with one exception, fully sympathized. Rev. Samuel Cornelius is one of these rebel divines. He is a member of the Baltimore Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and is a blatant secessionist. The Presbyterian minister is ditto. Another Reverend secessionist, named Ely, distinguished himself by his outrages. He, also, is a Methodist, though of the Southern wing of the de-
<c06>
nomination, being a Chaplain in the 18th Mississippi regiment. Not long after the Ball's Bluff affair, he took dinner with a clerical ‘brother' in Leesburg, who at heart was a Union man. After dinner he remarked to a young lady that he was going to Ball's Bluff after trophies. He wanted some bones of the Yankee soldiers, in order to make finger rings, &c., to carry as presents to some of his female friends in Mississippi. One man boasted to our informant that he had a Yankee skull slung under his wagon by two strings, using it for a 'tar cup' to the vehicle. These are merely specimens of the hundreds of instances which are well known occurrences in the vicinity."
PEPPERY LETTER FROM A NASHVILLE SHE REBEL. The following peppery letter was written by a Nashville girl to her John, who is a prisoner at Camp Morton, Indiana:
“John, I want you to tell me about the fight, and how many Lincoln devils you killed. I would like to be there and seen them Lincoln devils keel over, It would have done my soul good to have seen them fall by the thousands. John, as you are a prisoner, and cannot have the pleasure of Lincoln hirlands, I believe I will take your place, and I tell you that I would kill live yankees, I will do more for them than Morgan has done for them. I tell you Morgan is tearing up the burg for them; he is doing the work for them. John, I wish I was a man. I would come there and I would soon get you out of that Lincoln hole. I would tar there hearts out, and then cook them and make them eat them; but I will do all I can for you, and when they come into Shelby I will get some of their skelps and hang them up in my room to look at. I will be for Jeff Davis, till the tenessee river freezes over, and then be for him and scratch on the ice-
Jeff davis rides a white horse,
Lincoln rides a mule,
Jeff davis is a gentleman,
And Lincoln is a fule.
I wish I could send them Lincoln devils some pies, they would never want any more to eat in this world. May Jeff, ever be with you,. This is from a good southern rights girl-from your cousin
MARIANNE".
SONG OF THE SECESSION WARRIOR.
SLIGHTLY ALTERED FROM THE CHOCTAW.
I made a spur of a Yankee jaw,
And in New Orleans I shot his squaw-
Shot his child like a yelping cur,
He had no time to fondle her.
Hoo! hoo! hoo! for the rifled graves!
Wah! wah! wah! for the blasted slaves!
I scraped his skull all naked and bare,
And here's his scalp with a tuft of hair!
His heart is in the buzzard's maw,
His bloody bones the wolf doth gnaw.
Hoo! hoo! hoo! for the Yankee graves!
Wah! wah! wah! for the blasted slaves'
With percussion caps we filled each gun,
And put torpedoes where he'd run;
And with poisoned bullets and poisoned rum
Helped him along to kingdom come.
Hoo! hoo! hoo! for the Yankee graves!
Wah! wah! wah! for the blasted slaves
-Knickerbocker for June.
"Ah, how fortune varies!” Captain W.H. Harris, whose name is signed to the following ”Notice Extraordinary," is now a prisoner in the Federal camp, under Gen. Dumont, at Nashville:-
"NOTICE EXTRAORDINARY. We, the undersigned, will pay five dollars per pair for fifty pairs of well-bred hounds, and fifty dollars for one pair of the rough-bred bloodhounds that will take the track of a man. The purposes for which those dogs are wanted is to chases the infernal cowardly Lincoln bushwhackers of East Tennessee and Kentucky (who have taken the ad vantage of the bush to kill and cripple many good soldiers) to their dens, and capture them. The said hounds must be delivered at Captain Hanner's Livery Stable, by the 10th of December next, where a mustering officer will be present to muster and inspect them. 
F. N. McNARY,
W. H. HARRIS.
Camp Crinfort, Campbell Co., Tenn., Nov. 16."
TERRIBLE SLAUGHTER OF THE REBELS IN THE LATE BATTLE.
A member of Battery A, New York Artillery, is Casey's division, which is known as the ”Napoleons gun battery," which was in the front line of the first day's battle before Richmond, has written to a relative in New York a thrilling description of the inflicted upon the rebels by the fire of that battery, from which we make an extract:-
"The destruction was horrible. Our spherical case shot are awful missiles, each of them consisting of a clotted mass of seventy-six musket balls, with a charge of powder in the centre, that is fired by a fuse the. same as a shell. The missile first acts as a solid shot ploughing, its way through masses of men, and then, exploding, hurls forward a shower of musket balls, that mow down the foe in heaps. Our battery threw twenty-four of these a minute, and as we had the exact range of every part of the field, every shot told with frightful effect. But the enemy were not at all daunted.
They marched steadily on, and hailed a perfect tempest of balls upon us. Why we, as well as our horses, were not every one shot down, will forever re main a mystery to me. We did not mind the leaders hail, however, but kept pouring our case shot into the dense masses of the foe, who came on in prodigious and overwhelming force. And they fought splendidly, too. Our shot tore their ranks wide open, and shattered them asunder in a manner that was frightful to witness; but they closed up again at once, and came on as steadily as English veterans.
When they got within 400 yards, we closed our case shot and opened on them with canister, and such destruction I never elsewhere witnessed. At each discharge, great gaps were made in their ranks-indeed, whole companies went down before that murderous fire; but they closed up with an order and discipline that was awe-inspiring. They seemed to be animated with the courage of despair blended with the hope of a speedy victory, if they could by an overwhelming rush drive us from our position.
It was awful to see their ranks torn and shattered by every discharge of canister that we poured right into their faces, while their dead and dying lay in piles, close up, and still kept advancing right in the face of that fire. At one time three lines, one behind the other, were steadily advancing, and three of their flags were brought in range of one of our guns shotted with canister.
Fire! shouted the gunner, and down went those three flags, and a gap was opened through them, and the dead lay in swaths. But they at once closed up and came steadily on, never halting or watering, rights through the woods, over the fence, through the field, right up to our guns, and sweeping everything before them, captured every piece.

When we delivered our last fire, they were within fifteen or twenty paces of us, and as all our horses had been killed or wounded, we could not carry off a gun."
Another writer describes the following scene:
"The wounded were left on the field all night, and to hear their cries for water and help was most agonizing; and, to add to their sufferings, toward morning it commenced raining. One poor fellow, belong to a North Carolina regiment, who was wounded in three places, called me to him, saying-'For God's sake, get assistance, and take me where I can have my wounds dressed-I have been lying here all night, and am cold.' Procuring the assistance of an officer of the California regiment, we took the poor fellow where he could be properly cared for. Others were taken care of as soon as possible, and you can hardly imagine the grateful looks bestowed upon for this unexpected kindness. They were too much exhausted to talk much, but appeared to be surprised at receiving such good treatment.
The next morning, (Sunday,) we were ordered to the other side of the woods, only as short distance, and halted. Here we had an opportunity to see the have our firing had made in their ranks. The ground was literally covered with dead and wounded; and of all the scaly individuals I ever saw, these were the worst-dressed in all styles and colors, some without hats, and some without shoes. They lay in all positions; some in the act of firing, some just loading, others retreating. One had loaded his musket, and was sitting on a log, taking aim, when he was struck by a bullet. The muzzle of his gun dropped, sticking the bayonet into the ground, which left him in his position sitting on the log stone dead. It took us three days to bury the dead, which was done by digging a trench and laying them three or four deep. As they lay in heaps on the ground, it appeared as if they belonged to some other nation, so different did they look from our men. They were dressed in a dirty, gray cloth of the poorest quality, some of which looked as if it had been through a tan pit. From prisoners we learned that they attempted three times to charge on our battery, but no sooner did they come into line, than our grape and canister moved them down in heaps. Old Magruder said, 'Boys,’ we must take that battery!" But we couldn't see it in that light, and so didn't let them take it. Magruder turn ed away in despair, saying,' All hell’ couldn't stand the fire of that brigade,' meaning Gorman's."
