THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDNUSD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXXIII. NO.15 BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1863 WHOLE NO.1679.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE PEACE DEMOCRATS.
What are the Peace Democrats? They are not the men whose fanaticism for the negro compelled the South to revolt; nor the suspenders of the habeas corpus law; nor the office-hunters of the day; nor the authors of the "conscription bill," which is downright: Caesarism; nor the elevators of incompetent, scurvy politicians to places immensely above their capacity and their virtue in the Army, in the Navy, and in the State. Departments; nor the makers of the statute by which three hundred thousand blacks are to be made soldiers, which is a lasting disgrace to the nation; nor the contractors of the shoddy and bad food, who have interest in the continuation of the war; nor the intermeddlers with the army, who have taken from it its heart and spirit; nor the abettors of further abolitionism as a cure for rebellion; nor the besiegers of the well-disposed President to do acts without any support in the Constitution; nor the fellows whose fortune will fail when the war is ended; and they are not those, who, with a million of soldiers and hundreds of millions of dollars, have not effected the restoration of the Union. The Peace Democrats cannot be classed with any of these descriptions of persons. Who, then, are the Peace Democrats? They are the citizens by whose advice the rebellion could have been suppressed at the beginning; who, when they found the contest opened, supported it in every just manner possible; who, as long as things appeared to be conducted with honor and ability, gave the administration every assistance in their power; who, during the whole campaign, forgot not the entire Constitution; who, because hundreds of thousands of men have fallen by disease and in battle, are indignant at the loss; who, with independent tongues and pens, denounce the peculation and corruption of the faction in authority; who are incessantly at work to have all the principles of the Constitution that have been violated restored; who, in many instances, would get place if they would change their coats; who are not animated with the spirit of exterminating the South, for the sake of the negro; who, by their fearless patriotism, keep abolition tyranny in abeyance; and who, as thus far the war has been a tremendous failure, are now honestly convinced that constitutional peace alone can restore the Union. These are the Peace Democrats. Call them copperheads, or any other ungentlemanly term you like: they are the only true representatives of Republican freedom to-day in this country, and time will vindicate the justice of their conduct.-Boston Pilot.
MOZART HALL COPPERHEAD DEMOCRACY.
The following Resolutions were lately adopted at a Copperhead meeting at Mozart Hall, in New York:-
"Resolved, That the masses of the American people throughout this whole land are now offering up their daily and heartfelt prayers for peace, and demanding that this most unnecessary, most ineffectual, most devastating and most cruel war of modern times, shall be brought to a close; that the government at Washington must, ere long, find itself powerless to continue a conflict which the awakened judgment of a Christian and civilized people emphatically condemns, and upon which, the displeasure of Heaven would seem to have fallen; that, in order to produce even a seeming and temporary unity of public sentiment at the North in favor of a coercive war, it required the suppression of newspapers, the intimidation of the weak, and the lawless imprisonment of brave and consistent tribunes of the people, in military bastiles, along with an unexampled profusion of the official favors of a corrupt administration, a lavish distribution of civil and military honors, and the shameless plunder of millions from the public treasury; but now, after two years of this terrible fratricidal struggle, when hundreds of thousands of our best and bravest youth lie in their bloody graves, and the land is filled with mourning and suffering, while bankruptsy and grinding taxation are pressing upon us, and the declared object of the war has long since been lost sight of and abandoned-we recur to the words which Abraham Lincoln uttered on the day of his own ill-omened inauguration, when he said: 'Suppose you go to war: you cannot fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides, and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical questions are again upon you.'
Resolved. That the policy of war having had a fair trial for two long miserable, bloody years, and having failed to bring us, to all appearances, a single step nearer to the restoration of the Union, the people insist that a policy of peace should now be undertaken and attempted; and that a convention should be called, as contemplated, and provided for in such exigencies by the Constitution of the United States, at which convention all the States which were adhering to the Union on the first day of November, 1860, should be invited to be represented by delegates elected from their people; and that such a convention should be held at the earliest possible day, for the purpose of devising means for a reconstruction of the American Union, and restoration of peace."

CAUTION NEEDED.
Let us beware lest we push our zeal for the black race into a disregard of the rights of the loyal people who own slave. The arrest of a fugitive slave by the owner, or by an agent lawfully appointed, is not kidnapping. The owner of a fugitive slave may arrest him anywhere, in any State of the Union, without process. The arrest may be made on Sunday, and in the house of another. No person has a right to oppose the arrest, and if opposed, the owner may use violence to protect himself in his rights, without being guilty of the offence of riot. Any interference by third persons is unlawful. This is the law as decided time and again by the Supreme Court. It is clear that no person but the owner or his agent, or the duly authorized officer of the law, can arrest a fugitive. The business is not one that any person can engage in under the law. While our community indignantly frowns down any kidnappers, either of white or black men, we trust that they will never forget that the Constitution and laws made in pursuance thereof are still above and over us, and should be obeyed. The converse of taking negroes out of the State is bringing them in. This is as unlawful as kidnapping. The law is this:-
"Any person who shall employ a negro or mulatto, who shall have come into the State of Indiana subsequent to the thirty-first day of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, or shall hereafter come into said State, or who shall encourage such negro or mulatto to remain in the State, shall be fined in any sum not less than ten dollars, nor more than five hundred dollars."
Let the good citizens of Evansville, now rolling in the rich profits of the trade from Kentucky, act justly toward that unhappy State. Let all who violate either law be punished by public opinion and by the courts.-Evansville (Ind.) Gazette-Copperhead.
<c02>
Selections.
LETTER TO FERNANDO WOOD.
THE ACT FOR ENROLLING THE NATIONAL FORCES.
NATICK, Mass., March 30, 1863. 
Hon. Fernando Wood:
SIR,- You are everywhere recognized as the brain, the heart, the soul, the philosopher and guide of the Mozart Hall Democratic faction of the city of New York. Your restless brain inspires its utterances; your plastic hand molds and fashions its action. Surely, then, it is fit that you should be held responsible for the utterances and the acts of your liege clansmen who are wont to assemble in Mozart Hall, and do your bidding.
Inspired by your councils, Mozart Hall pronounces against the "Act for enrolling and calling out the National Forces," to preserve the unity of the republic and the life of the nation. Mozart Hall, illumined by your presence, proclaims that this act for the preservation of our periled country "makes an infamous distinction between the rich and the poor." Sir, this accusation is false-wickedly, wantonly and infamously false-a foul, shameless and damnable libel upon the law and its framers. 'The oft-repeated avowals of red-handed traitors, whose souls are stained with the blood of our murdered countrymen, that this accursed rebellion now upon us was forced upon them by the aggressions of the liberty-loving, law-abiding, God-fearing people of the loyal States, are not more shamelessly, wantonly and wickedly false, than is this declaration of Mozart Hall that the Conscription act makes distinctions in favor of the rich, and against the poor.
Pray, sir, do not misunderstand me. Of course, I cannot mean to accuse Mozart Hall of intentional falsehood. Oh, no! Surely no one would suspect Mozart Hall of intentional falsehood or misrepresentation! Its considerate moderation, its lively sense of justice, its admitted patriotism, its stainless purity of character, will rescue Mozart Hall from the suspicion of intentional misrepresentation or falsehood!
Of course, sir, this shameless accusation against the provisions of the Conscription Act was inspired by ignorance, not by falsehood. This exhibition of sheer ignorance concerning the provisions of this proscribed law of the nation will, perhaps, be excused and pardoned in view of the manifestations of that intense, passionate, outspoken loyalty Mozart Hall is wont to put forth in behalf of the Government. It is, nevertheless, not an agreeable spectacle to see you, sir, and your Mozart Hall patriots, whose exquisite regard for human rights is only equaled by that deep concern for the country which impels you to delve into the mysteries of negotiations with the Richmond traitors, groping along in utter ignorance of the provisions of a law, framed expressly to more effectually defend the endangered nation, lighten the burden of the treasury and the people, equalize the duties, and relieve as far as possible the toiling, dependent poor from the hard, if not harsh provisions of existing militia laws.
But, sir, it matters not whether this accusation of Mozart Hall against the Conscription Act was born of ignorance or of falsehood. It is equally malicious, deceptive, mischievous. It is an accusation flung before the people by the reckless hand of malignant demagogism, to poison the heart and mislead the reason. Surely the heart, conscience and reason of a loyal people will mark and brand the brain that conceived, the hand that penned, and the tongue that proclaimed this foul, wicked and shameless calumny against an Act which bears the amplest evidence in every line, that its framers intended its burdens should fall as lightly as possible on the toiling masses. 
Sir, this "Act for enrolling and calling out the National Forces" was framed to be more efficient for war purposes than were the existing militia laws, less burdensome upon the Treasury and the people than were the existing laws, and more humane to the poor who have the aged, the infirm, and the helpless dependent upon their labor for support, than were the existing statutes. These objects, sanctioned by patriotism, economy, justice and humanity, were ever kept steadily in view, and they have been attained as nearly as the unequal lot of humanity will permit, in this law, so fiercely denounced by the Mozart Hall Democracy, at your bidding. 
Yes, sir, this law, enthusiastically, welcomed by the armies of the Republic, referred to by other nations as the highest evidence of the determined purposes of the American Government, dreaded by the armed traitors and denounced by rebel sympathizers, bears in every section and in every line, evidence of the patriotism, justice and humanity of the 37th Congress. Its just and humane provisions perpectually give the lie to the accusation of Mozart Hall, that it makes an infamous distinction, between the rich and the poor. 
Contrast, sir, the provisions of this denounced act with the provisions of the existing militia laws of the United States, and of your own State of New York. By the provisions of existing militia laws, the President is authorized to call into the service of the United States the militia of the States. By the laws of the United States and by the laws of New York, certain classes of persons are excepted and exempted from military duty, from being drafted into the service of the United States. Are these exempts the poor, who have widowed mothers, aged and infirm parents, motherless infant children, or fatherless and motherless young brothers and sisters dependent on their labor for support? No, not these. Neither the laws of the nation nor the laws of New York exempt the poor who have the aged, the infirm, the helpless, dependent upon them. At the call of the Government, they must leave widowed mothers, aged and infirm parents, fatherless and motherless sisters and brothers, and motherless infant children, all dependent on their daily toil for support, and hie away to the camp and battle-field. 
Who then are exempted by the militia laws of the United States, or of the State of New York? The exempts are not the poor, the dependent sons of toil, but the most fortunate and favored of the people-the members of Congress, the Custom House officers and clerks, the postmasters and clerks, professors and students of colleges and ministers of the Gospel, the judicial officers and other officials. 
This "Act for enrolling and calling out the national forces," denounced by your Mozart Hall followers for making distinctions between the rich and the poor, excepts and exempts not members of Congress, not Custom House officers, not postmasters, not government clerks, not the State judiciaries, not ministers of the gospel, and processors and students in colleges-no! not these fortunate and favored classes of men, for it enrolls them and requires them either to fight, furnish substitutes, or pay for substitutes. Who, then, does this law, so flippantly denounced by Mozart Hall Democracy, except and exempt?
This law, branded by you, sir, and your clansmen, excepts and exempts, first, the Vice President of the United States, the judges of the various courts of
<c03>
the United States, the heads of the various executive departments of the government, and the Governors of the several States. Second, the only son liable to military duty of a widow dependent upon his labor for support. Third, the only son of aged or infirm parent or parents dependent on his labor for support. Fourth, where there are two or more sons of aged or infirm parents subject to draft, the father, or if he be dead, the mother, may elect which son shall be exempt. Fifth, the only brother of children not twelve years old, having neither father nor mother, dependent upon his labor for support. Sixth, the father of motherless children under twelve years of age, dependent upon his labor for support. Seventh, where there are a father and sons in the same family and household, and two of them are in the military service of the United States as noncommissioned officers, musicians or privates, the residue of such family or household, not exceeding two, shall be exempt. Eighth, young men between the ages of 18 and 20 are exempt for the reason that experience proves that soldiers under twenty years of age cannot sustain the burdens of camp life, as well as men between the ages of twenty and thirty-five.
These, sir, are the exemptions of the Conscription act (so called) in favor of the poor, upon whose daily toil the aged, the infirm and the helpless rely. Is it making “infamous distinctions between the rich and the poor" to exempt the only sons of poor widows, and to compel members of Congress to fight, procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? Is it "making infamous distinctions between the rich and the poor" to exempt the only sons of aged and infirm parents dependent on them for bread, and compel Custom House officers to fight, procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? Is it "making infamous distinctions between the rich and the poor" to exempt the only brothers of fatherless and motherless little brothers and sisters dependent upon their daily toil or support, and compel postmasters and government clerks to fight, procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? Is it "making infamous distinctions between the rich and the poor" to exempt the fathers of motherless infant children, dependent upon their daily toil for sustenance, and to compel State judges, justices of the peace, clergymen and college professors to fight,
procure substitutes, or pay for substitutes? This law which thus discriminates in favor of the poor is denounced and accursed by Mozart Hall. Shame on Mozart Hall! Shame on the men who misrepresent the beneficent provisions of an act passed to uphold the cause of our imperilled country!
The 13th Section of this Conscription act provides, that any person drafted and notified to appear as aforesaid may, on or before the day fixed for his appearance, furnish an acceptable substitute to take his place in the draft; or he may pay to such person as the Secretary of War may authorize to receive it, such sum not exceeding three hundred dollars, as the Secretary may determine, for the procuration of such substitute, which sum shall be fixed at a uniform rate by a general order made at the time of ordering a draft for any State or Territory. Any person may furnish an acceptable substitute to take his place in the draft, at any price for which he can procure one. Every drafted man is at liberty to furnish a substitute at such rate as he may agree to pay the substitute; or any drafted man may pay such sum, not exceeding three hundred dollars, as the Secretary of War may determine, to procure a substitute.
The sum determined upon by the Secretary cannot exceed three hundred dollars; it may be ten, fifty, one hundred, two hundred dollars, or any sum within the limits of three hundred dollars. This provision of allowing a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars to be paid to the government to procure substitutes, was put into the law for the sole and single purpose of keeping down the price of substitutes, so that men of very moderate means, and poor men, could more readily obtain substitutes. This provision enables the Secretary to fix the sum which will be the price of substitutes. Without this provision, it was believed that the prices for substitutes would go up at once to one thousand or two thousand dollars, so that none but rich men could obtain them. If any drafted men can obtain a substitute for a sum less than that determined by the Secretary, he is at liberty to do so. This authority conferred upon the Secretary to fix a sum from one dollar to three hundred dollars was purposely given to check speculation, to keep down the price of substitutes, and it must inevitably do so. Thus, partisan malignity, in its blindness and madness, perverts a measure framed solely in the interests of drafted men of moderate means, and of drafted poor men, into a distinction in favor of the rich and against the poor! Surely, sir, the folly, and madness, and wickedness, of even Mozart Hall partizans cannot further go.
Sir, this act for enrolling and calling out the national forces gives assurance to the world that it is the unalterable purpose of the nation to crush out this wicked rebellion. Your denunciations of its provisions can only fire the hearts and nerve the arms of traitors, thus putting in peril the holy cause of our country, and the precious blood of its heroic defenders. Your denunciations of this beneficent act of national defence, by reviving the waning hopes of the rebellion, may force upon the government the necessity of putting into execution the draft provided for in this act. That draft cannot be averted, except by promptly weaponing the willing hands of the loyal men in the rebel States, and by immediately yielding a united and enthusiastic support to the Government, thus speedily and thoroughly crushing the hopes and effectually baffling the efforts of the rebels. HENRY WILSON.
FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW MASON.
The Mendicity Society really ought to do its work better. It is true that it renders service by waging war against small offenders, but at the same time it suffers culprits on a large scale to escape scot free. No doubt it is well to impale fictitious widows with ideal families, to crush dilapidated greengrocers who pass themselves off as decayed curates, and to make a holocaust of all the small fry of deluders who practice upon the credulity of the charitable. But the society falls short of the fulfilment of its mission when it allows the greatest of begging-letter impostors to eude its clutch. Its officers should be instructed to lay hands at once upon Mr. Mason. This person. known to the devil as his agent in the invention of the Fugitive Slave Law, but unknown to diplomacy virtue of his being, the envoy of a non-existent power, has been subjecting Earl Russell to an inveterate persecution. He has been laboring with
untearying pertinacity to obtain recognition upon also false pretences. It is needless to say, that he had not the shadow of a right to communicate officially, with our Foreign Secretary. It was sheer impertilence on his part to pester the Minister of a free country with manifestoes on behalf of the man-stealing rebels who are his employers. Just as rationally might an ambassador from the garotters claim to the admitted to the diplomatic circle at the Court of it. James's. The right of rebellion is sacred; but
<c04>
an insurrection of slave-owners, motived solely by the desire to rivet more firmly the fetters of their bondsmen, is simply the engrafting of one crime upon another. Let us, however, do Mr. Mason justice. In his correspondence with Earl Russell, which has just been laid before Parliament, though he calls Jefferson Davis President, and talks of the Confederate States, as if there were any such known political entity, he is, nevertheless, constantly upon his knees. The pith of his letters might be conveyed in a single phrase-" Oh! if you please, do be so kind as to come, and drag us out of our obscurity." That is the sum and substance of all his urgent entreaties, backed up-by many extemporized facts and quibbling reasonings. Assuming the reptilian attitude which becomes the envoy of insurgents who have risen in revolt to vindicate their right of breeding and bartering human cattle, he rubs his nose in the dust at the feet of the English Government. He is very pathetic in bewailing the war between North and South, as a conflict at which humanity shudders." No doubt humanity shudders at any war, just as the human nerves quail at the sight of a severe surgical operation, and the human gorge rises in loathing at a nauseous medicine. But there is something at which humanity shudders still more, than at any war, and that is the prospect of the establishment of an empire which avowedly accepts, as its corner-stone, the divine right of slavery. God may permit such a calamity for His own wise ends, just as He allows the ravages of a pestilence; but that does not prevent us from regarding it as a scourge, to be prayed against and fought against with heart and soul. Mr. Mason's letters to Earl Russell may be fairly characterized as a series of intermittent whines. His obsequiousness is as strongly marked as his sophistry. His cringing tone might be deemed flattering to the power of England, if we did not know that it is simply the offspring of impotence. It is amusing to find him expressing the satisfaction which his master will feel at learning that a letter embodying a series of questions had received a mere formal acknowledgment, without a syllable of reply to any of the inquiries which it contained. The most rigid muscles must relax into a smile at his assurance that Jefferson Davis, while protesting against certain proceedings of the British Government, "abstains for the present from taking, any further action." How very kind he is not to capture Canada, or annex the West India Islands out of hand! Mr. Mason assures Earl Russell that the South would be very glad if the war could by any means be brought to an end. We do not for a moment doubt it. There is little satisfaction in playing a losing game, finding your resources gradually dwindling away, and feeling that your only hope of escape from ruin is in some violent interposition which shall strike the cards out of the hands of both the players. There is a naivete almost lndicrous in the statement of Mr. Mason, that the South would not feel at all irritated at English intervention, upon the clear understanding that it should not aim at the restoration of the integrity of the Union. It was scarcely worth while to send a commissioner all the way across the Atlantic to tell us that the slaveholders" would not be angry, if we ranged ourselves on their side. Mr. Mason has evidently been at his wit's end in this correspondence to make out something like a case for his employers, but he has run to the full extent of his inventive tether without producing any satisfactory result. Perhaps it was the consciousness of his failure which induced him to whine and wheedle so profusely. We are happy to be able to add, that he has taken nothing by either his sophistries, his coaxing, or his tears. Earl Russell has treated the begging-letter writer as he deserved. He has snubbed him, and that is all. But really, our Foreign Secretary ought to be protected from such annoyance. He has enough serious business to attend to, without being pestered by political tramps seeking eleemosynary aid to which they have no claim. Will the Mendicity Society wake up, and employ one of its active officers to relieve him from further persecution?-London Star, March 14th.
LACK OF VIGOR AND DESIGN.
The news from America is slack. The Northerns are trying to get beaten in the way they like. Their Generals are found avowing it; and there is little doubt they will succeed. What there is of effort appears to consist in a reported sending of 5,000 colored men nobody knows who, to do nobody knows what, and act nobody knows where. Good sometimes comes contrary to men's intent; but it cannot be said to be the ordinary course of Providence. If two great fleets were in presence as at Trafalgar, and one admiral, instead of preparing to give or receive battle with the mass of his forces, were to amuse himself with sending five frigates to cannonade the enemy where they could, and see what would come of it,-the world would have a specimen by water, of what is here to be seen from men of terrestrial callings. 
When a large portion of a political Union broke out into active, energetic rebellion, on the avowed point of the Divine Right of Slavery for a third, school-boys, who had not got much beyond spelling Statesmanship with a capital letter, knew and had a lively feeling that the way little boys would conduct a& mimic war, on an imaginary case of the kind, would be by moving on the point where the aid of the suffering third would best be given, and the whole operation be attended with most of danger to the rebel party. Village politicians would add a lively consciousness, that the way to do it would be by acting on the large scale, and not on the peddling one. Instead of childish threats of what should be done to the enemy three months hence, if he did not mend, attended with giving him all that time to prepare for defensive or offensive movements, what common sense would indicate to every man whose heart was in the thing would be, that it was a case for promptitude, and not for dawdling. In a conflagration, men do not say to the authors of it, "Wait three months, and you shall see what a force of fire-engines shall be brought against you!" Still less, when the three months are over, do they say to the fire-engines, "Here you are in print, and a formidable show you are! But as for moving, or anything being moved to back you, it is not our design. We meant to try whether the fire would go out at sight of you; and that was all."
There has been the peculiar misfortune, of being cut off from any of the benefits to be expected from the vigor and unity of design of an Executive. There was no vigor, and there was no design. But bating this, which may in some sort be called accident, the case is not essentially different from what happened before, and if the world goes on, will happen again. When France rose for the suppression of much less flagrant slavery, she had her generals whose hearts were in the camp of the enemy, and who had rather be beaten in their own way, than conquer for the country that employed them. They ended by trying to make their armies march upon the civil government; and when they failed in that, they rode over at full gallop to the enemy. Over and over have the Northern generals been called upon to take this course, by the English branch of
<c05>
the Alliance; and it would hardly have been done, if there had not been a conceived possibility of its being acceded to. Washington was never invited to ride over into the English lines; though Arnold found his way there with little or no asking.
The result of this is everywhere the same-a result attended with evil, and not with good, but which assuredly was never promoted with benevolent design. Instead of being done with the calm and magnanimity of a great initial operation, the thing waits till all fierce passions have been roused, and under the pressure of desperate necessity, the most violent come to the top, and violently do their work. Is the blame on them, or on the law dawdlers and traitors? If references to. revolutionary names of fear are wanted, the correspondence of the enemy's Chancellerie established from England in Washington City will supply.
T. PERRONET THOMPSON. 
MILITIA BILL OF MASSACHUSETTS.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on the 31st ultimo, the Bill concerning the Militia was considered in the orders of the day, on the question of ordering it to be engrossed:-
Mr. CUSHING, of Newburyport, expressed the greatest deference for the Committee who reported the bill, and as a general rule was willing to abide by the reports of Committees. But he could not vote for this bill, if the first section remained as it now reads; and he, therefore, moved to amend that section by inserting a clause further restricting the class of persons required to be enrolled in the militia, to such as are liable to enrolment by the laws of the United States. This condition, he remarked, is recognized by the Committee on Federal Relations, who reported a bill (which is now on the table awaiting the result on this bill) embodying the same principle; but it is not recognized by the Committee on Military Affairs, and such non-recognition he considered a defect. He could not concede that we shall not here discuss the constitutionality of the question; nay, said he, the oath of God is on us to do it. The act of Congress of 1792, it is universally conceded, is still in force, and is the basis of our militia system. The real question is as to the second half of the first section of the act of 1862. The statute is, that if there is a defect in the law of any State that will prevent executing a draft, the national Executive shall meet it by an order for such draft. If the act of 1862 repeals pro tanto the act of 1792, as to enrolment, then it repeals by virtue of the same enactment all provisions for exemption. Manifestly it was not the intention of Congress to repeal the act of 1792. If we stand solely on the, act of 1862, then all exemptions are flagrant violations of law. But, as the speaker conceived, we stand on the prior act. The speaker discarded the idea of omitting any reference whatever to the qualifications of acts of Congress, and added, that in moving this amendment, be performed an act of signal reserve; that is, he left the question of the soundness of opinions to the Executive and the Judiciary. In allusion to the subject of employing colored soldiers, the speaker said: events will show how utterly illusory is the idea that if twenty millions of whites, if rightly led, cannot accomplish the result which this war aims at, a few thousands of colored soldiers can do it. For never was there in the history of nations such an example as that presented by the volunteering of our armies; never, such a spectacle of patriotism,-unique, sublime, divine. Such men can accomplish anything short of angels’ works, and if they could not, vain is the idea that it is to be accomplished by a handful of vagabond Africans. I speak plainly on this point. War is to be carried on as war with our own red right hands, rather than by a false alliance with an inferior race who are but an in-cumbrance and drawback to our success. I have long since forborne to aim at conviction, save to the bench or before the jury, and will not enter into a discussion of this question. But the irresistible and irrepressible logic of. events will demonstrate the error in due time. Where we shall employ one man of color, two white arms will be weakened thereby. I am content to await the inevitable issue of events; but I cannot vote for this bill as it stands, in conflict with the laws of the United States. I am old-fashioned, it may be; but I will not yield to anybody in my loyalty to the Constitution and the laws of the United States.
Mr. READ, of Boston, after expressing his dissent from the views of the gentleman from Newburyport, (Mr. Cusbing,) on the negro question, spoke in opposition to the bill, on the ground that it was too slow in its operation,-too much like organizing a fire department while the fire was raging around us.
Mr. ROBINSON, of Middleborough, was as yet undecided on the general merits of the bill. But he was convinced of the futility of introducing this
United States clause. He considered that the opposition was altogether too fastidious on such points.
As to the employment of negroes, he would employ
them, and every other available means to suppress.
the rebellion, and would not go into mourning if a,
rebel should happen to be shot by a negro instead of a white man.
Mr. SMITH, of Gloucester, could not conceive of any possible good such an amendment could accomplish. Facts rule the case, and State legislation must give way before national enactments. He deemed it unfortunate, moreover, that any progressive policy should be put under a cloud by a proposition like this, or by anything else. We do not ask the negroes to save us, but merely to assist us, and it is ignoring history to say that the African has not the ability and disposition to fight. The speaker alluded, in eloquent language, to numerous instances in the revolutionary war, of the bravery and gallant deeds of negro soldiers.
Mr. LOUD, of Plymouth, moved to refer the whole subject to the next General Court.
Mr. CUSHING withdrew his motion to amend, in order that the sense of the House might first be taken on the bill as it stands.
Mr. CHANDLER, of Boston, congratulated the gentleman from Springfield (Mr. Trask) on the accession of his new ally (Mr. Cashing, of Newburyport,) who avowed his willingness to vote for the bill, if there could be a slight amendment in the first section. He (Mr. Chandler) had not proposed, and did not intend to propose, any amendment of the bill, because he was opposed to it in to. He did not like the system proposed, and he did not think this the proper time to attempt a thorough reorganization of the militia. But if any portion of the bill suited him, it was precisely that to which the gentleman from Newburyport objected, although he thought the phraseology was unfortunate, and believed that the bill on the same point, reported by another committee, and now before the House, was better. He confessed his surprise at the. opposition to the employment and enlistment of negroes in this war. It was time that the contest should be conducted on principles of common sense. We had been two years in trying to accomplish a certain purpose, with doubtful success, and here were several millions of men, now and always in the forces of the enemy,
<c06>
who, it is averred, are ready to aid us; and their aid is persistently refused. Do we act in this, manner in the ordinary conduct of life? Suppose there was a serious conflagration near the spot where we now stand, and the colored citizens of the ward common with others, hurried to it, and were eager to assist in its extinguishment, what would be thought of a man whose house was burning, and who should insist upon it, that no negro should do a thing, simply because his face was black?." We have an excellent fire department, composed entirely of white men, and if they can't put out this fire, no one else shall; let it burn rather than admit the African element!" Such a man would be deemed fit for a lunatic asylum; and where is the difference in principle? Why should we not at least try the experiment of colored soldiers in this war? But there is the
humiliation of the thing. He admitted it fully. We have been oppressing the negro half a century, North and South. No black man here can sit on a jury; no one can join a military company; they are not admitted into our churches on any terms of equality. At the South, the system of slavery is universally condemned by the civilized world, but a whole confederacy is in arms because they cannot extend it to territory now free. And now, while the white race have got into a quarrel with each other, they call upon the negro to
help them out. The South have been using him from the first, and now the North propose to do the same thing. Like the drowning Roman, we cry out in our extremity to this despised race, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink." If there had been anything more humiliating in this war, others were welcome to point it out. For his own part, he had come, to the conclusion that their aid was necessary, and for one he was ready to accept it-at any rate, he was ready to make the trial. The contest was a peculiar one. Gigantic armies were in array. Vast regions of country were to be traversed, immense means of transportation were needed. In all this vast preparation and action of war, it
was strange if there was no place for black; soldiers-men inured to the climate, familiar with the country, and completely at home, where our soldiers were strangers. At any rate, it was remarkable if we refuse to try an experiment which may succeed beyond our most sanguine hopes, and which, if it fail, can do no harm. 
Without taking any action on the bill, the orders of the day were laid on the table, and, after the presentation of sundry papers, the House adjourned.
[In the House of Representatives, on Saturday, the bill was referred to the next Legislature by a yea and nay vote of 131 to 58.]

THE FIRST SOUTH CAROLINA REGIMENT.HILTON HEAD, March 24, 1863. To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The steamer Boston arrived this morning from Jacksonville, Florida. The First South Carolina had been reinforced. Several skirmishes bad taken place between Col. Higginson's troops and the rebels, with a loss of one killed and one wounded on the Federal side. The naval officers who witnessed the deportment of the regiment give it high praise. When the citizens of the town found that a 
regiment of negroes had possession of the place, they were highly indignant. They denounced it as an outrage. They would not have cared if white troops had surprised them, but to wake up in the morning and find <illegible>, Dick, Bob, Sam, Hervnles, Sanyho-their old servants, their former riches, one million dollars of fugacious property-up in arms, with kaapsack, cartridge-box and musket, was galling to human nature. The citizens, some of them, talked profanely; the women went into hysterics. They were, without doubt, terribly frightened. Fear had them in possession. They had a horrid nightmare; they thought of St. Domingo; they imagined blood, outrage and death in most appalling shape. Perhaps remembrances of former days came back; perhaps the ghosts of the dead returned-they who had died at the whipping tree, hung up by the thumbs, with backs gory, who had been hunted down by hounds in the swamp, torn in pieces by bull-dogs. You may sear conscience, bury it alive, smother it, stab it through and through, you may think it dead, or make believe it is forever hushed, but when fear cometh like a whirlwind, we are apt to
 recall past deeds of evil. No wonder there was consternation, wringing of hands, and hysterics among the women of Jacksonville when they found themselves at the mercy of runaway armed slaves, with power to cut their throats, to commit all imaginable outrages on property and person.
Mark how that power has been exercised! Notice the terrible vindictiveness of the runaway slaves! Not a hair of a woman's head harmed. The deportment of the soldiers is as correct as that of the white regiments. There is no St. Domingo for this continent. Last Sunday I heard a negro pray in public.
It was in a large church. There were Colonels, Majors, Captains, Lieutenants, ladies refined, intelligent, from the North, civilians, and a great crowd of
colored people. Thanks were given for freedom, heartfelt and earnest. God's best blessings were invoked upon President Lincoln for making the negroes free. Then came the following supplication: I pray Thee, O Lord Jesus, that Thou will not forget my old master. I pray Thee, O Lord God, for Jesus' sake, that Thou will bless him. O Lord, make him give his heart to Thee. Make him also throw down his gun, and come out for the Union! O Lord, make him see that he has done wrong." 
I give it verbatim, but the pen cannot record the earnestness of the suppliant. Such is the revenge of the freedmen. Not a single instance can be found when, having power to harm, it has been exercised by them! But to return to Jacksonville. The fear of the women was so great that they petitioned Col. Higginson to be sent beyond his lines. He complied with their request; told them that all who desired to go might have twenty hours to remove. They wanted several days, but he thought twenty hours a reasonable time. Finding that they were not harmed, they began to breathe more freely. Some decided to stay; less than a hundred concluded to go.
On Sunday last, the old Episcopal Church was used for service. The First South Carolina and the Sixth Connecticut Regiments, and a crowd of negroes of Jacksonville, the officers of the Navy, and a few of the white residents were there, completely filling the church. The Sixth Connecticut famished
an organist and a choir. Rev. Mr. French, Chaplain of a New York regiment, officiated. The Sixth Connecticut has shown a hearty good will for the First South Carolina. The   officers and soldiers treat the colored soldiers fairly and courteously. The Eighth Maine, Col. Rust, has been sent there. They have been <illegible> at Beaufort near Col. Higginson, and have also treated the colored soldiers respectfully. Col. Rust being senior offer will command the post. The First South Carolina will suffer no indignity or disparagement from him or these in his command. He is a true soldier, a courteous gentleman, and has a high opinion of the capabilities of the freed men in the field.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, inter that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of subject,
not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMADER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES;. From the instant
that the slaveholding 
State become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS expand to <illegible> with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of Status, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a was power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or
a war of invasion or a war of <illegible>, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two Lostile <illegible> armies are set in martial array, the
 commanders of both armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both <illegible> have power to emancipate all the salves in the invaded territory. 
“-J.Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I think that if a force of six or eight thousand men had been sent to Jacksonville, we might have penetrated the State-crossed to Tallabassee, and entered Southern Georgia without much opposition. The result would have been fifteen or twenty thousand freed men flocking to oar lines. Bat the opportunity was not improved. The rebels have now a respectable force to oppose any advance.
ENROLLMENT OF FREEDMEN.
Gen. Hunter issued a supplementary order to-day relative to the enrollment of the able-bodied freed-men. Some of the superintendents on the plantations. have not given prompt compliance to Order No. 17, directing their enrollment. Sutlers, storekeepers and others having negroes in employ have been willing to keep them along, disregarding the order. The supplementary order confiscates the property of any one aiding an evasion of the order by the negroes. The third regiment will soon be fall. Mast of the negroes hare as much reluctance to entering the army as men of whiter hue. They have all the ails known to the matcria medicarheumatism, rupture, rickets, pain in the back, bowles and brains. They limp, have crooked legs, and bowed down, but it is worty of note that when the examining board of physicians pronounce them sound
-when they see that the die is cast, that inexorable
decree is passed-that they must go, they do not whimper; they forget to limp, ruptures are healed, rheumatism departs, pains vanish, bowed beads become erect. They make the best of it, as they have been disciplined by the stern despotism which has ruled them. They begin to understand that they must strike a blow for themselves.
It of course has had a depressing effect upon the women. It is not easy now to get up a “about"-a praise meeting, when from sunset till sunrise they unite in singing “Roll, Jordan. Roll," “Down in the Lonesome Valley," and the whole repertory of sad refrains inspired by the misery and hopelessness of life-of life in this world-but reaching ever on with yearning and longing for the freedom which death alone can give. Ordinarily you hear them sing in the field by their cabins' smoldering fires, or pulling at the oars along the bays and estuaries. But now, it is difficult to raise a song. The wives and mothers are down-hearted. They would not be human if they were not sad. The fact that they have sensibilities like other wives and mothers makes them human. But their fortitude is commendable. Their example of brave-beartedness is worthy of admiration. The officers of the 3d South Carolina have not yet been designated. The 2d regiment is filling its ranks in Florida. There will be at least five thousand freedmen organized by the 1st of June in this department. CARLETON.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
ON A METROPOLITAH POLICE.
phonographically reported for the boston traveller, by j. m. w. yerrinton
Wendell Phillips, Esq., spoke at the Melodeon on Sunday forenoon last, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, advocating the establishment of a Metropolitan Police. Notwithstanding the dismal weather, the hall was crowded. After the usual preliminary Sunday services, Mr. Phillips said:
I have been requested to speak to you, to-day, on the subject of a Metropolitan Police. That plan has been already presented, two or three years ago, to this community, and, of late, very elaborately and eloquently argued before a Committee of the Legislature, by Edward L. Peirce, Esq., and still more comprehensively and in detail, by Charles M. Ellis, Esq.; but it is one of vital importance to the welfare and progress of our city, and until the object be achieved, it van never be too frequently considered and urged. Other cities have led the way in this path, years ago. The capital of the civilized world, London, many years ago, found herself utterly unsble to contend with the evils of accumulated population-found municipal machinery utterly inadequate for the security of life or property in her streets; and the national government, by the hand of Sir Robert Peel, assumed the police regulation of that cluster of towns which we call London. New York, on our continent, about six years ago, followed the example; Baltimore and Cincinnati have done likewise to a greater or less extent, and so also have some of the other Western cities. The experience of all great accumulations of property and population reads us a lesson, that the execution of the laws therein demand extra consideration and peculiar machinery. Hitherto, the police regulations in the city of Boston have been modelled on those of a small town; that is, the inhabitants themselves have called into existence a body of constables, in fact, to execute the laws of the State and the by-laws of the city. Our text, in presenting this subject to you, is this: in Boston, as everywhere else where large numbers are massed together and great masses of property are found, a police force appointed by the voters of the place cannot be relied on to execute the law; and, in order to secure their full and impartial execution, it has been found necessary elsewhere, and I shall attempt to show you that it necessary here, to put the control of the police force into other hands than those of the voters of the peninsula. That is our claim-that the men of the peninsula, like those of other great cities, are not to be trusted with the execution of the State laws, but that executive power must be based on broader foundations. Such a course it no uncommon machinery in democratic institutions. We put the interpretation of the laws-the Judiciary-not into the hands of any local municipal body, but the interpretation of the laws is in the hands of persons appointed by the whole State. I invoke the same principle for their execution-following old republican precedents, as I shall shortly show.
In order to sustain this claim before you, I ought to show three or tour things. First, that in important particulars-important particulars-the law has failed of execution; that good and vitally important laws have failed of execution. Secondly, I ought to show you that this failure is due to the machinery which the city puts in motion for the execution of the laws. Thirdly, that a better machinery may be found. And, fourthly, that it it important for the welfare of the State that the attempt to find a belter machinery should be made.
My first point is to show you that in important particulars, where great and grave interests are involved, the laws have failed of execution. You perceive that this involves, in fact, an indictment against the city government. It it in reality arraigning the government of the city for failure to do its duty. Before I pass to it, therefore, let me make one protest. I do not come here to find fault with individual policemen. I think our body of police is as good, on the average, as that of any great city I know. I think upon all trying occasions they have done their duty, at far as they have been permitted, and have always shown full capacity to do their whole duty. Neither do I come bete to arraign the individuals of the city government; not, however, on account of the same excuse, but because I deem it unnecessary. They are mere puppets, flattering before us for a tittle while; they are only victims of a great system which they did not originate and cannot control. Looking over the last dozen years, considering that the Mayor and Aldermen during those years have been, in the aggregate, only a standing committee appointed by the grog-shops of the peninsula. it has been no honor, but a shame, to hold one of to offices. So man with a full measure of self-respect could accept such an office All politics necessitates questionable compliances; but this serfdom touches a base depth. But it is not necessary, and certainly not within my purview to-day, to arraign individuals. I am merely criticising a system which throws up, into unfitting places and undue importance, men who have no real right to the power which they are wholly unable or unwilling to use.
To return now to my first point. I am to tell you that, in many important particulars, the laws have failed of execution. I shall take, in the first place, Temperance. Some men look upon this Temperance
cause as whining bigotry,. narrow asceticism, or a vnl-gar sentimentality, fit for little minds, weak women and weaker men. On the contrary, I regard it as second only to one or two others of the 
reforms
<c02>
of this age, and for this reason: Every race has its peculiar temptation; every clime has its specific sin. The tropics and tropical races are tempted to one form of sensuality; the colder and temperate regions, and our Saxon blood, find their peculiar temptation in the stimulus of drink and food. In old times, our Heaven was a drunken revel. We relieve ourselves from the over-weariness of constant and exhaustin toil by intoxication. Science has brought a cheap means of drunkenness within the reach of every individual; and national prosperity and institutions have put into the hands of almost every workman the means of being drunk for a week on the labor of two or three hours. With that blood and that temptation, we have adopted democratic institutions, where the law has no sanction but the purpose and virtue of the masses. The statute-book rests not on the bayonets of Europe, but on the hearts of the people. A drunken people can never be the basis of a free government. It is the corner-stone neither of virtue, prosperity, nor progress. To us, therefore, the title-deeds of whose estates and the safety of whose lives depend upon the tranquillity of the streets, upon the virtue of the masses, the presence of any vice that brutalizes the average mass of mankind, tends to make it more readily the tool of intriguing and corrupt leaders, is necessarily a stab at the very life of the nation. Against such a vice is marshalled the Temperance Reformation. That my sketch is no mere fancy picture, every one of you know. Every one of you can glance back over your own path, and count many and many a one among those who started from the goal at your side, with equal energy and perhaps greater promise, who has found a drunkard's grave long before this. The brightness of the bar, the ornament of the pulpit, the hope and blessing and stay of many a family-you know, every one of you who has reached middle life, how often on your path you set up the warning-”Fallen before the temptations of the streets!" Hardly one house in this city, whether it be full and warm with all the luxury of wealth, or whether it find hard, cold maintenance by the most earbest economy, no matter which-hardly a house that does not count among sons or nephews, some victim of this vice. The skeleton of this warning sits at every board. The whole world is kindred in this suffering. The country mother launches her boy with trembling upon the temptations of city life; the father trusts his daughter anxiously to the young man she has chosen, knowing what a wreck intoxication may make of the house-tree they set up. Alas! how often are their worst forebodings more than fulfilled! I have known a case-and probably many of you can recall some almost equal to it-where one worthy woman could count father, brother, husband, and son-in-law, all drunkards-no man among her near kindred, except her son, who was not a victim of this vice. Like all other appetites, this finds resolution weak when set against the constant presence of temptation. This is the evil. How are the laws relating to it executed in this city Let me tell you.
First, there has been great discussion of this evilwide, earnest, patient discussion, for thirty-five years. The whole community has been stirred by the discussion of this question. Finally, after various experiments, the majority of the State decided that the method to stay this evil was to stop the open sale of intoxicating drink. They left moral suasion still to address the individual, and set themselves as a community to close the doors of temptation. Every man acquainted with his own nature or with society knows that weak virtue, walking through our streets, and meeting at every tenth door (for that is the average) the temptation to drink, must fall; that one must be a moral Hercules to pass unstained. To prevent the open sale of intoxicating liquor has been the method selected by the State to help its citizens to be virtuous; in other words, the State has enacted what is called the Maine Liquor Law. You may drink in your own parlors, you may make what indulgence your please your daily rule, the State does not touch you there; there you injure only yourself, and those you directly influence; that the State cannot reach. But when you open your door and say to your fellowcitizens,”Come and indulge," the State has a right to ask,”In what do you invite them to indulge? Is it in something that helps, or something that harms, the community?"
I will try to show you, in a moment, on what grounds the State decided that these numberless open doors harmed the community, and that the method to be adopted was to shut them up. The majority, after full argument in district school-houses, the streets and the State-house, from pulpits, lyceum platforms, and everywhere else, decided that prohibition of the traffic was the only effective method. The law was put upon the statute-book. A reluctant minority went to the Legislature, and endeavored to repeal or amend it, alleging that this was not a good law; and they were voted down. Again they went-were voted down. A third time they went-and were voted down. They then appealed to the Courts, and said, “This is not a constitutional law." The Courts said. “It is." If anything ever has the decided, unmistakable sanction of a majority of the people of this Commonwealth, the Maine Liquor Law has it. After a quarter of a century of discussion, it was enacted; three times assailed, it was maintained; subjected to the crucible of the Court, it came out pure gold. We have a right to say that it is the matured, settled purpose of the majority of the Commonwealth; if the majority have a right to govern, that law is to govern. Have we not? If not, let the minority assail again the Gibraltar of the statute. But meanwhile it is, like all other laws not immoral, to be obeyed. I have not, therefore, to argue to-day whether the law is good or not, whether it is wise or not. That is settled. It is good and wise in the opinion of the Commonwealth. The era of public opinion is finished, that of law has commenced. This is the history of all legislation. Do not find fault with us for enacting, in due time, public opinion into a statute. Where did all statutes come from? Hundreds of years ago, men argued the question, “Shall one man own a separate piece of land?" They argued it, and settled that he should. That became a statute. They then began to argue the question. “Shall he transmit to his children by will?" They argued that for centuries, then said, “Yes," and enacted it. Nobody now goes behind those statutes. Hundreds of years ago, our race argued the question, “Shall a man have one wife, or three?" We settled that he should have but one; it is the law of the Commonwealth.
The era of discussion and opinion is over; the era of legislation has come; the time when the minority sits down and obeys. With all great questions, covering important interests, there is a time when public opinion stereotypes itself into statutes. Land, wheat, marriage, the rules against burglary and theft, settled themselves years ago. If I raise a harvest, it is mine; that is the law of the land. There was a time when it was a question; it is not a question now. So with temperance and the Maine liquor law. Time was when the question whether a man had a right to sell liquor openly, unlicensed, was discussed; we have passed that point, and reached the time when the majority, in other words, the State, decrees that these shops shall be shut.
Now, let me show you, in a few words, why it should decree that. Let me show it by an instance. Take our city. Our city met that statute thus:-It said, “You may decree it if you please, we won't execute it. You say we shall not license anybody, but we will effect the same thing, for we will let everybody sell, except just those whom we should not have <illegible>." These are the exact words of the order to the<illegible> some years ago. The Chief of Police replied to a question from the Massachusetts Temperance <illegible>,” We have directions never to prosecute a liquor seller, unless he one who would not have received a license under the old license act." In other words, the State says, “On mature consideration, I <illegible> the sale." The city says, “I shall allow it help yourself!" Those whom it would not have licensed are “nuisances," as it calls them, houses vulgar, <illegible>, disorderly; kept, as the Dogberry of the Board
<c03>
of Aldermen told us at the State House, by “imbecile old men and ancient women”-as the constable of Shakspeare's play arrested all “vagrom men." That is the position of the city. The law is intentionally and avowedly set aside. The City Government announce that it does not intend to obey it; makes no effort and never has to enforce it What is the result? The result is that there are at least 3000 places in the city where liquor is publicly and continually sold. These consist partly of dram shops, partly of gambling saloons, partly of houses of prostitution. They number in all more than 3000; I am giving an under estimate of an average for two or three years. What are the results of these 3000 places of sale? Six million dollars'worth of liquor is sold to the retailers of this city annually; and three million dollars'worth is annually retailed on the peninsula.With what result? With this. They produce poverty and crime to this extent:-We arrest for drunkenness alone, on an average for the last three years, about 17,000 persons annually; that is, a little less than one-tenth of the population. There are between twenty-five and thirty thousand persons relieved for poverty by overseers of the poor, and by the Provident Association-poverty caused by intemperance. That is, every seventh man in the city is a pauper, helped by the community; every tenth man in the city is a criminal, arrested by the police. Let us look at that a moment. I say every seventh man is a pauper, relieved by the help of the community. Poverty, wholesome poverty, is no unmixed evil; it is the motive power that throws a man up to guide and control the community; it is the spur that often wins the race; it is the trial that calls out, like fire, all the deep, great qualities of a man's nature. That poverty is no evil-at least, it is no unmixed evil; but poverty that is caused by drunkenness-for I am only taking, in these 25,000 persons, the poverty that is traceable to intemperance-the poverty that is caused by drunkenness has what history? The father is a drunkard; the mother often imitates him; the self-respect of the family is lost; the home is gone; it is a scene of quarrel and degradation; the children are thrown neglected on the streets, with no food, no education, no moral sense developed,-the frightful and fruitful source of every vice known to the civil code. That feeds the gallows, fills the street with impurity, makes thieves and burglars. Out of these houses flows a constant supply for all forms of crime. Without the open and continued sale of drink, almost every hell of the gambler would be closed; he would have few victims. He would find few men in the mood to be victimized. Without open places for the sale of liquor, the houses of prostitution could not be maintained; that is the testimony of all experience in every city. To that shameless pit woman seldom sinks, except when betrayed by drink-and even when once ruined, could not bear such a life unless nature was daily stupified by intoxication. Nine-tenths of those sent to the House of Industry are common drunkards. Intemperance is the most productive of all causes of insanity.” Truancy” finds its” cause of causes" in intemperance. Said the Chief of Police, three or four years ago,” Intemperance is the direct origin of more poverty, more crime, and consequent suffering, than all other causes combined." Twenty-five thousand men reduced to poverty in a year, or at least every year relieved by the public.
Now let me go to the schools. Twenty-five thousand is an average estimate of the children who attend our public schools. The city pours out a quarter of a million a year to mould those young souls, step by step, to virtue, to make them good citizens. Twenty-five thousand with one hand it lifts up; with the other it forces down twenty-five thousand into pollution and crime. It spends §477,000 a year to do it; for that is the cost of our police force, of cur overseers of the poor, of our lunatic asylums, (a large portion of whose inmates are rendered insane by intemperance,) our house of correction and house of industry. You might as well take a third of a million of dollars, and toss it off the end of long wharf-we should be richer at the end of the year. Leave all the children idle in the streets, shut up the grog-shops, shut up the schools, throw a third of a million into the water, and, the city would be better off on the 31st day of December than she is now.
That is the cost of intemperance. One-half the criminals of the State are found in the city of Boston. We have one-sixth of the population, and yet we have more than one half the criminals. We have one-sixth of the population, but we pay about one-half of the criminal expenses of the State of Massachusetts-just. three times our proper proportion. What does it, come from? I am not to charge it on any particular' corporation; I am to charge it to a system. It is the massing up of one-third of the capital of the State, and one-sixth the population on this peninsula. That makes a new order of things, one calling for a new machinery to check crime; a hot bed, where all the tendencies to crime become doubled and trebled, where the dangerous classes of the community get undue power. It is because of that peculiarity, that we need a different system from what the country does. Up to a certain point, our city government has always acknowledged this. For instance, in a small country town of a few thousand inhabitants they have two or three constables. Nobody knows who they are. You might visit half a dozen houses, and they could not not tell you. Only once or twice in a year on some festive or other occasion, a town meeting, a picnic, or something of the kind, is he ever seen or needed. He may execute a writ once in a while. If there is any disorder in the town, a citizen takes notice of it, reports it to a justice of the peace, and the difficulty is cured. That is a sufficient machinery for a small town. But, when you have a large and dense population, great wealth invested in certain dangerous and tempting forms, you cannot trust the execution of the laws to the volunteer efforts of the citizens; you must have a large body of police, constantly in the streets, ever on the alert, with grave powers, with extraordinary functions, to watch criminals and follow them up. That has been found necessary. Now, the question is whether something further is not necessary also. The returns for ten years show that 42 per cent. of the average population of this county was arrested for crime, while, in other counties, the number
arrested was only one, two or three per cent. Why this difference? Because a city necessarily induces
greater temptations, greater dangers, and more frequent crimes. It needs, therefore, a more stringent machinery to execute the laws. Instead of that, in regard to this temperance law, the city government defy it. They, themselves, pay-or did pay till within a year or two, I will not speak of the present year, for I have not consulted the reports-about a thousand dollars a month out of the city treasury for the indulgences of the Board of Aldermen and Common Counell men at an illegal liquor shop, which no one of them had a right to see without presenting it to the courts within twenty-four hours. In that disgraceful Anthony Burns and Sims experience of the city, upon which I am shortly to speak, one of the melancholy features of city sin that day was, that the men illegally called out to defy the State laws contracted a bill, within sight of the Supreme Court, within sight of City Hall, of between one and two thousand dollars, for liquor and food furnished them at an illegal grogshop, by order of the city.
Let me pause a moment on this question, and turn to another-Free Speech. Free Speech is so vital an element of civil life, so important a privilege, that the framers of our government were not willing to leave it to the law-they enshrined it in the Constitution. It was so fundamental that it could not be left to annual legislation; it was grouted and dovetailed into the very first stratum of the foundation of the State. Now, the class of men who have had the ordering of city affairs have never, for the last twenty years, attempted to protect free speech on this peninsula. Let me tell you what I mean. If a man like the editor of the Boston Post, like the Hon. Edward Everett-like Mr. Sumner, any popular person in the community, wished to hold a meeting on this peninsula, he could always do it; but if any set of men who are unpopular wanted to hold a meeting here, it de-
<c04>
pended entirely upon the mood of the mob that month whether they could hold it or not. These very walls could testify, if they had voice, how many dozen times they have seen their occupants, paying an honest price for a day's use of them, disturbed hour after hour, and finally, perhaps, in some instances, the meeting broken up by a crowd of boys that the right hand of one policeman could have quelled; and when individuals, the very lessees of this hall, would take one of these disturbers to the courts, he was set free, and the persons who interfered threatened with a suit. You know that the trustees of the hall from which you have just removed for a season, sat on one occasion until midnight, to decide whether they would dare to risk their property when the Mayor of the city had let it be known that he did not intend to defend it against the mob of he steets. You know too, or you might know, that the see anxious scene of consultation went on among the trustees of the Tremont Temple, again and again, whether they would dare to risk their building, when the city authorities had unblushingly and publicly declared that they would not protech free speech. You know, also, that the State herself did not venture to grant the use of the State House to a body of men turned out by the Mayor of the city from their own hall, when the members of the Legislature expressed their willingness to do it, because the Executive informed them that he had no means to protect the State's property against the grogshops of the peninsula. Macaulay says, speaking of James of Second's disturbed regin: “On such occasions, it will ever be found that the human vermin, which, neglected by ministers of State and ministers of religion-barbarians in the midst of civilization, heathern in the midst of Christianity-who burrow among all physical and moral pollution in the cellars and garrets of great cities, will rise at once into terrible importance." It was when that class of the community found that the Mayor was willing to lead them, and that they could riot in the most gilded drinking saloons free of expense, that your Governor dared not trust the State House to an orderly and legal assemblage of the citizens of Massachusetts. It was at a time when one of the most efficient of the Chiefs of Police said, “Give me thirty men, and an order, and I will quell that mob at once." The difficulty was not that it could not be quelled. That class which Macualay describes never faces the law until it has bribed it. The moment the Court turns its determined countenance upon them, they retire to cellars and garrets again. One of the Aldermen of the city said recetly, in the State House, that these mobs were only “watermelon frolics-the pounding of men with the soft side of a cushion;" but it was a cushion that the Governor dared not trust to touch the State House; it was a mob which the Mayor said, in excuse for inefficiency, that he had not force enough to control. Perhaps it would not be disrespectful to ask that these several city dignitaries would arrange beforehand, and make their lame excuses at leat consistent. There is a class of whom an old proverb affirms that it needs to have “long memories."
Fellow-citizens, for the last five years, I have been able to make, in New York, in perfect quiet, with the unsolicited protection of the police, the same speech which I could not make to you without being surrounded by fifty armed friends. Again and again have I proved this, during the last five years. In the city of New York, the common sewer of the continent, where wealth is massed up by uncounted millions, where the criminals of all nations take refuge, any man could speak his mind for the last five years; and if the journals threatened him with violence, he need not go begging to the City Hall-as we vainly used to do here; the authorities would take notice, unsolicited, and see to it that he was protected. But, at the same time, in our own city, of one-quarter part of the inhabitants, it was impossible, without personal protection, to utter the same words. Why is this? It is no fault of individuals, as I said before. Three thousand places where drink is sold! Do exaggerate when I say that each one of those places represents a voter? Mr. Ellis has said, with great force, that every one of those places represents at least ten men whom it influences, which would make thirty thousand-and doubtless his estimate understates the fact; but I am not going to speak of those whom those places influence. I am going to speak of the voters which they send to the polls, and I certainly shall not exaggerate it I say, that each one of them influences one voter-the owner of the shop, the keeper, the tender, or the frequenter of it. There are 3000 voters-certainly I should not exaggerate if I said 5000. About 15,000 voters on this peninsula usually go the polls, sometimes 22,000, though very rarely. Now, 3000 voters could always hold the balance in such a constituency-Republican, Democratic, Catholic, Protestant. With all varieties of opinion and purpose, three thousand men, bound together by one idea, one interest, with one purpose in view, and demanding one thing, and nothing more, can always hold the balance. There never was a city election which that number of votes massed together could not control. What is the result! The result is, that it is as much a bargain as if it were recorded in the Registry of Deeds, that the prominent aspirants for city office shalln to execute the laws against the liquor shops. Is it at all remarkable? A great many men want office-it is an American failing. Here are the men who ca bestow it. They say-"This is the condition; shut your eyes upon us!" The consequence is, that both parties, all parties, are obliged to bow their necks to that yoke, and, with rare exceptions, there cannot be an Alderman nor a Mayor of the city elected, who is not understood to be willing to shut this eyes to that crime, and leave the law of the State unexecuted. It has been so, it always must be so, while these elements of civic strenth exist, and are thus tempted to exert themselves.
The reason why the law is not executed in favor of free speech is germane and sister to this; it is, that the men who are interested in these drinking shops, and the men whose votes they can command, are of the class that hates progress and freedom-is naturally antagonistic to them; and any designing leader can stir up such a mass, and fling it at virtue, and order and liberty. Hence these consquences. Their agents, of their own natural bias, run greedily to do such agrreable work.
For the last ten or thirteen years, this has been the machinery of the city government. They have said to the State, “We will not execute your law." Now, law consists of four things-a statute, a policeman to arrest the offende, a jury to try him, and a judge to sentence him. The Constitution says, we shall have judges “as impartial as the lot of humanity admits." We have them. Chosen, how? By the State. The other end of the telegraph is a man to being the offender before the judge. What is the use of a judge? He cannot move of himself; he is powerless if you do not bring the criminals before him. But the city government of Boston, chosen by this machinery I have spoken of, says to its police officers, “Don't you furnish that judge with any criminals; shut your eyes upon them?" Then, again, if one is arrested, by any accident, what more? Why, this: the statute says that our jurymen shall be drawn from a box, in which the names of citizens of good moral character and sound judgment, free from all legal exceptions, are put. The city weeds out the jury-box on another plan. In all trials that had anti-slavery or temperance in them, you might be certain of one thing-you would never see an abolitionist nor a temperance man on the jury. If he got there, it was an accident, and there was always enough to neutralize it. It is just like the black element. We have several thousand black men in our community; you have never seen a black man on a jury but once, and that was an accident, and he was not allowed to sit, though he had been regularly drawn. Many of them are of good moral character, but their names never get into the box; or, if they get in, never come out. So of a man known, distinctively, as an abolitionist; if his name goes in, it never comes out. So of a man known as a temperance man; rarely does his name come out. But liquor dealers have always been abundant; no
<c05>
jury was trusted alone without them. If the State furnishes good judges, and the city, at the other end, furnishes no criminals, or, when one is by chance caught, fortifies him with a jury that will disagree on his side, how is the law to be executed? As long as the city government is chosen by men whose interest is on that side, how can it be otherwise? How is the law to be executed, when you have entrusted its execution to men who do not wish or mean to execute it; who were elected expressly not to execute it, and have the strongest motive not to do so? No matter how good individual policemen are, while such men rule them. You know when Baillie Nicol Jarvie, in Scott's immortal novel, let Rob Roy out of jail-he was an Alderman, a Baillie, and let him out-he said to Rob,” If you continue to be such a thief, you ought to have a doorkeeper in every jail in Scotland." “O, no, Baillie," replied Rob, “it is just as well to have a Baillie in every borough." It answers the same purpose to have a servile and complacent Mayor and Aldermen as to have fettered policemen, because they settle the juries, and they settle the functions of the police. The consequence has been, that there has been no effort to execute the law. The defence put in is,” We cannot execute the law." The Mayor said of the riots of 1860-'61,”We can't put them down." The reply of his own policemen was, “Thirty of us will put them down, if you will allow us." The reply of the Abolitionist was, “When did you ever make an effort to put them down? The only time you ever stood on Tremont Temple platform and issued an order, it was obeyed; the mob recognized you as their leader." But men say at the State House, in reply to the eloquent argument of Mr. Ellis-Mr. Healy, Alderman Amory said-"We cannot execute an unpopular law." Indeed! Indeed! I can remember when Marshal Tukey put a chain round your Court House to execute a law that was hated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts full as bitterly as Beacon street hates the Maine Liquor Law; and I can remember when he went up to a legislative committee appointed to examine into his conduct, and inquire why a policeman of the city of Boston was acting in that illegal manner, against the statute of the State, and answered Mr. Keyes, “Sir, I know it is illegal, but I mean to do it. Help yourself!”
In 1843, Latimer was arrested by a policeman with a lie in his mouth. In 1851, Sims was surrendered by policemen acting illegally, and avowing their defiance. In 1854, Burns was sent back, and his claimants were aided by the police, contrary to the statute. Unpopular laws! The city can execute anything it wants to, unpopular or popular. The city executes every one of its own by-laws perfectly No man steals with impunity; no man violates Sunday with impunity; no man sets up a nuisance with impunity. As the Grand Jury said, several years ago,” The municipal authorities can remove this nuisance, or at least abate it, whenever they will. It is as much in
their power as the offal in the sewers or the dirt in the streets."
Tell 180,000 Yankees that they cannot execute a law when they wish to! Once, by happy accident, our Mayor left the city, and an exceptional but most unexceptionable Alderman, Mr. Otis Clapp, took his place-no trouble that day in quelling the mob-Deputy Chief Ham did it in thirty minutes. It is only the presence of Mayors that makes mobs omnipotent. But suppose Mayors cannot execute the laws-what then? If Berkshire should say, “We want, every one of us, to have two wives," and practise it, and send word up to Boston, “We cannot execute the other law," do you think we should sit down quietly, and let it go? How long?
Boston has five or six trains of railroads-one to the Old Colony, one to Providence, one to Worcester, one to Lowell, one to Fitchburg, one to the eastern counties. All of them run locomotives where they wish to. Suppose that, on the Fitchburg railroad, one locomotive, for a year, never got further than Groton-what do you think the Directors of the road would do? Would they take up the rails beyond Groton, or would they turn out the engineer? There is a law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, thoroughly executed in every county but ours; and here the men appointed to execute it not only do not want to, but you cannot expect them to. They were elected not to execute it, and they say they can't execute it Shall we take up the rails, or change the engineer?-which?
Men say, to take the appointment of the police out of the hands of the peninsula is anti-democratic. Why, from 1620 down to within ten years, the State always acted on that plan. The State makes the law. Who executes it? The State. For two hundred years, the Governor appointed the Sheriff of every county, and the Sheriff appointed his deputies, and they executed the laws. The constables of the towns were allowed
merely subsidiary authority to execute by-laws, and help execute the State law. The democratic principle is, that the law shall be executed by an executive authority concurrent with that which makes it. That is democracy. The State law, naturally, democratically, is to be executed by the State. We have merely, in deference to convenience, changed that of late in some particulars, and we may reasonably go back to it if we find that, in any particular locality, the new plan fails. Why not? In all other matters of State concern, as Mr. Ellis has well shown,-Board of Education, Board of Agriculture, and all the various Boards,-the State has the control. You perceive this “anti-democratic" argument can be carried out to an absurdity. Suppose
the Five Points of New York should send word to the Fifth Avenue-"We don't like your police; we mean to have one of our own, and it will be very anti-democratic for you to take the choice of our own constables out of our own hands." Suppose North street should send word to City Hall-" We have concluded to turn every other house into a grog-shop, or something al-most as bad, and to appoint our own police; please instruct your police to keep out of our ward. "We should not say this was democratic. We should say, that as far as the interest of a community in a law extends, just so far that community has a right to a hand in the execution of it. Now, the State of Massachusetts feels an interest in the execution of the Maine Liquor Law. We have a sixth of the population and a third of the wealth of the State. Do the influences of these stop with the people who sleep on this peninsula? Does not our influence radiate in every direction? Do not twenty thousand men do business here who do not sleep here? A third of the wealth! Who owns it? We that sleep here? Not at all. These costly railroad depots, these rich banks, these large aggregates of property, who own them? Why, the men that live ten, twenty, thirty miles outside of the city limits, and come in here in crowds the first of January, April, July and October, to get there dividends. Men who have millions invested on this peninsula no interest in knowing whether the streets are safe! Sending their sons into our streets-no interest in their being morally wholesome! Trusting their lives here-no interest in their being safe!
A fortnight ago, a woman, a teacher in a country town within twenty miles of Boston, missed her father-an honest, temperate farmer, though not a teetotaller. He came to the city to sell cattle, and had received five hundred dollars. He had been gone a week, and the came down to the eity to hunt him up. She traced him from spot to spot, and finally found that the grog-shops had gotten bold of him, made him drunk, taken his money, kept him drunk three days, so that a convenient policeman might see him that number of times and complain of him as a common drunkard, and he had gone to the House of Correction for three months. Has that town no interest in the streets of Boston? Let me tell you again a story that I have told you once or twice before, for it holds a deep moral. A few years ago, one spring afternoon, when I left the city to
deliver a lecture, I alighted from the railroad car at the foot of a hill, whose swelling side was crowned with the most magnificent of country dwellings. Architecture and Horticulture had exhausted their art. It was so unlike any thing about it, I was led to ask how it came there. The man who was driving me said it was built by a village
<c06>
boy, who wanted to show how much money he had made in Boston in fifteen years. “He left here without a cent," said the young man-"went to Boston-become a distiller-returned with two hundred thousand dollars-that is his residence." Do you suppose there was a Yankee boy within sight of that hill-side who was not tempted to repeat that Boston experience, of rapid and easy wealth? I rode on fourteen miles, and was set down opposite one of those village homes which Dr. Holmes describes-a square house of the Revolutionary period-old elms hung over the laws before it. The same driver said, “In that front room lies dying the grandson of the man who built that house. Grandfather and father died drunkards-lay about the streets of the village drunk. That boy and I started together in life. He went with me to Lowell. We went through the mills and a mechanic trade. Never did one drop of intoxicating liquor pass his lips. Social forlie, increase of means, friendly entreaty, gay hours never tempted him. Until thirty, he stood untouched, guarded by an iron resolution. Having gathered a few thousands, he was tempted to Boston for a wider trade. He went there-stayed six years; came home penniless and a drunkard, to lie in the very streets where his father and grandfather had lain before. He could stand up against every tempation, except Boston streets. There he lies dying, as his grandfather and father before hi." Do you say that the people of these country towns have no interest in the streets of Boston? You tempt the virtue, melt the resolution and corrupt the morals of the Commonwealth, as far as your influence extends. 
No interest! Let me go a little ways off, and be less invidious. New York has one-fifth of the population of the State on Manhattan Island. Recently, in a great national convulsion, the city stirred herself to checkmate the State. For Wadsworth, the candidate of order, of liberty, of government, the country countries flung twenty thousand majority. The deoms of discord stirred up the purlieus of the city, and flung thirty thousand against him. Ten thousand, the ultimate majority, carried their candidate to Albany. What was his first blow? Seymour's first act, when he assumed the Governorship, what was it? He fulfilled his bargain. He hurled his defiance at the Metropolitan Police that kept him and his allies, conspirators, from carrying the Empire State into the hands of the Confederacy. Those are the times, when, as Macaulay says,”the vermin burrowing in garrets and cellars show themselves of terrible importance." Who knows that such times may not come upon us!
I have seen the day, in that city of New York, when Rynders dictated law to the Chief of Police, and Matsell obeyed him. For twenty years, I have seen, in your city, the mob rule when they pleased. I have seen your Mayor order his police, in Faneuil Hall, to take off their badges and join the mob that crowded out free speech from the consecrated hall. You saw, two years ago, the State government reeling before the victims of the Tremont House and Parket House. The Governor complained then, as I am told he does now, that in the whole country, he had not one single officer whom he could comman to execute the law. Who shall say that the security of this great centre of wealth and population is not for the interest, for the peace, for the absolute prosperity of the State? We, too, may have a Fernando Wood-who know? Out sixth part of the population of the State may attempt, in the interest of liquor and despotism, to defy the Commonwealth. It is too important a machinery to be left in the hands of the dangerous classes. We want to take it out of the hands of the dangerous classes, and put it into the hands of the Common wealth-nothing else. One of two things is necessary. The law is bad-repeal it; or the law id goodkeep it. No other country would be allowed to defy the law-why this?
The Mayor says he cannot execute it. Take him at his word. Undoubtedly, HE cannot, for he was chosen not to; but the question is, can it be executed! What do the temperance majority of the Commonwealth claim? One trail-nothing more. We have funded twenty-five years of discussion, any amount of toil and labor, in that statur. It never has had one trail yet on this peninsula. May we not ask simply one trail? The locomotive has never attempted to go beyond Groton. Why take up the rails yet? I Berkshire should say,” what should we do? Why, appoint fresh sheriffs, not repeal the law. So in this case, let not Massachusetts get down and say, “I, too, am a slave to the grog-shops of the peninsula."
We do not claim that drunkenness can be wholly rooted out. But we do claim that this law can be executed as perfectly as other laws are, if its execution be entrusted to competent and faithful hands. No crime is wholly prevented. Our crowded prisons prove that. No law is prefectly executed. But there is nothing on the Maine Liquor Law that distinguishes it from other statutes. No man claims that the use of intoxicating drink can be wholly stopped. But it is idle and ridiculous to say that the public sale of it cannot be stopped as much as the indiscriminate keeping of gunpowder, or the opening of shops on Sunday, or the firing of muskets in crowded streets, whenever magistrates shall really wish and mean to do their duty.
A metropolitan police has been necessary in London, and now its streets are the safest in the world. In New York it has saved the city from convulsion and bloodshed. One of its prominent citizens said to me, a short time ago, “You do not know how near we have been to an outbreak in this very street. But for our police, the attempt would have been made to surrender is to Southern dictation." That same civil disorder may impend over us. What is the remedy? Let the State hold her hand on the views of the peninsula-claim her old democratic right to execute the laws she has made-to execute them if the city cannot, or if, by her constitution of government, she will not try to execute them faithfully.
Our plan is to have Commissioners-three or five-appointed by the Governor or by the Legislature, whichever seems best. Let them hold their offices for three or five years; they appoint, rule, and remove the members of the police force. Such a Commission would be removed, as far as anything in our civil system is or ought to be, from the control of party politics, and would be largely independent of the “dangerous classes." This peninsula needs it immediately-the neighboring towns and cities will need it soon. The members of such a police force should hold their places during good behavior, and be removed only on charges stated in writing, to which they may have a chance of replying. Now, every fall, the liquor dealer or other criminal, whom an honest policeman has troubled, holds up his warning finger to the Alderman of that Ward-"Remove that policeman, or don't expect my vote." What officer can be expected to do his duty in such circumstances?
The moment the liquor interest of the city see that their mixing in city elections will not secure a police force in their interest, they will probably leave the election of Mayor and Aldermen to the natural action of ordinary politics, and then we shall have as good officers as our system will secure, with the present level of education. Such Mayors and Aldermen will, probably, no longer prostitute the jury box to defen rum and shield mobs. They will have no interest to do so. But if they do, we must press forward, and find a remedy for that. I have full faith in democratic institutions. Work on, and we shall yet life them up to much higher perfection. The future is sure. Honest men rule in the end. Only show them their interest and dusty, and, in due time, they will rally to do it. Ten years ago, I made an anti-slavery speech, painting Southern despotism, and demanding that the North should rouse herself against her tyrants. The next day, meeting the oldest statesman of the Commonwealth, he said to me, “Your speech was all true. I knew it thirty years ago. But what can you do about it? They wont listen." I answered, “I mean to protest-claim my rights, and denounce those who assail them, whether they listen or not." The policy has been somewhat successful. Agitate! and we shall yet see the laws of Massachusetts rule even Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1863.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 12th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M.
The Society will hold another public meeting in the evening, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of the speakers will be announced hereafter.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday, at 3 1/2, P.M., and on Wednesday, at 10, A.M.
The loyalty of this Society to freedom, and to free institutions, and to the Government so far as it aims to uphold these, is unquestionable and uncompromising. It has emphatically pronounced against the Southern rebellion as in the highest degree perfidious and wicked; and, as it is now apparent to the civilized world that this rebellion is the legitimate product of slavery, and waged for no other reason, either avowed or hidden, than to give greater security and extension to that horrible system, which, by one blow, strikes down all human rights, and perpetrates every conceivable portage upon human nature, the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY not only applauds the Proclamation of President Lincoln, whereby more than three millions of slaves were declared forever free on the first of January last, but maintains that a decree of immediate and universal emancipation is demanded by the imperilled state of the country; by fidelity of the Government to its constitutional obligations in such a fearful emergency; by the hopelessness of attempting to perpetuate the Union upon any other basis than that of homogeneous institutions and interests, and impartial liberty and exact justice for all the people; by the inevitable dissolution of the old Union because of its antagonistical elements; and, especially and above all, by the Divine command to "undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free." Then shall our light, as a nation, rise in obscurity, and our darkness be as the noon-day; then they that shall be of us shall build the old waste places; we shall raise up the foundations of many generations; and we shall be called, THE REPAIRERS OF THE BREACH, THE RESTORERS OF PATHS TO DWELL IN.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH Secretaries.

EMANCIPATION AND SLAVERY TESTED.
THE RESULTS OF SLAVERY. By Augustus Cochin, Ex-Maire and Municipal Councillor of Paris. Work crowned by the Institute of France- Academic Francaise. Translated by Mary L. Booth, Translator of Count de Gasparin's Works on America, &c. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. 1863.
This is the second portion of the very meritorious work of M. Cochin, entitled L'Abolition de Esclavage, and the complement to the first, "The Results of Emancipation," given to the American public by Miss Booth, who, as a translator, is deserving of the highest praise, and issued by the same enterprising publishers. Both volumes will, doubtless, find a place in every considerable library, whether public or private; and as the first has quickly passed to a third edition, the second volume should keep pace with it in interest and circulation. Here is the ground it covers:-
BOOK FIRST. The United States of America. Chapter I. Influence of Slavery on the whole Policy and Legislation of the United States. § 1. From the Adoption of the Constitution to the Missouri Compromise(1787-1820). §2. From the Missouri Compromise to the Election of President Buchanan (1820-1856). §3. From the Election of President Buchanan to the Insurrection at Harper's Ferry(1856-1860).
Chapter II. The North and South.
Chapter III. Reasons for Maintaining Slavery- Objections and Replies. § 1. The Origin, History and Theory of Slavery. § 2. The Happiness of the Slaves.
Chapter IV. What are the Legal Means of Abolishing Slavery? § 1. The Powers of Congress in accordance with the Constitution. §2. State Legislation and Individual Enfranchisement. § 3. What is the best System of Emancipation. §4. Possible Consequences if Emancipation take place-Probable Consequences if Emancipation do not take place.
Chapter V. The Separation of the North and South §1. From the Insurrection at Harper's Ferry(1859) to the Nomination of President Lincoln (1860). §2. From the Election to the Installation of President Lincoln.
BOOK SECOND. Spanish Colonies.
BOOK THIRD. Portugal.
BOOK FOURTH. Brazil.
BOOK FIFTH. Colonies of Holland. I. Dutch East Indies. II. Guiana. III. Dutch West Indies. IV. Dutch Forts on the Coast of Africa. V. Emancipation Bills.
BOOK SIXTH. I. The Slave Trade. II. Immigration, or the Importation of Free Negroes from the Coast of Africa. III. The Exploration and Evangelization of Africa.
BOOK SEVENTH. Chapter I. Slavery before Christianity. I. Slavery in Antiquity. II. Slavery among the Jews.
Chapter II. Slavery in the Sight of Christianity. I. The Gospel. II. The Acts of the Apostles and the Epistles. III. Slavery in the Sight of the Church. §1. Abolition of Ancient Slavery. §2. Abolition of Modern Slavery.
Chapter III. The Theory of Slavery.
Chapter IV. Resume-Why the Influence of Christianity has not been Prompter and more Decisive.
APPENDIX.
As far as he has investigated the subject, M. Cochin has certainly acquitted himself with great ability, -exhibiting throughout remarkable accuracy in his statement and analysis of facts, and a most dispassionate condition of mind in the presentation of his views. But who can trace the "Results of Slavery,"
in all its dreadful manifestations! M. Cochin confines his attention to its political and economical aspects, but omits all reference to its utterly demoralizing ten dencies wherever tolerated, particularly its corrupting influence upon the religion of the country, not only depriving it of the power to protest, but seducing it into active complicity. Had M. Cochin seen the Hon. James G. Birney’s pamphlet, "The American Church the Bulwark of Slavery," or that of Parker Pillsbury, "The Church as it is," or that of Stephen S. Foster, "The Brotherhood of Thieves," he would have found certain astounding "Results of Slavery," in a quarter which he does not appear to have explored at all. We hope he will yet find time to bend himself to this task, promising him whatever aid we can render in furnishing the necessary materials, and predicting, as a consequence, the preparation of a volume of the most instructive and startling character.
It strikes us as very singular, and wholly inexplicable, that while treating upon American slavery from the adoption of the Constitution to the culmination of the Southern rebellion, no reference whatever is made by him to the thirty years' moral struggle for the abolition of slavery-a struggle which has had no parallel for disinterested philanthropy, persistent purpose, unfaltering heroism, and true sublimity; which has sundered the most powerful religious bodies, broken in pieces old political parties, compelled the nation to contemplate its own immeasurable iniquity, met victoriously every form of opposition, and at last made the Union too full of the spirit of
<c02>
freedom for the Slave Power to retain its ancient mastery, and so in its madness it is trying to find safety in secession and an independent confederacy. But for the Anti-Slavery movement, that power would have still held the North as its abject vassal, determined the policy of the Government, subjected every territory now free to its accursed domination, crushed out the liberty of the press and freedom of speech, and held undisputed away over the whole country. But for that movement, there had been no Kansas struggle, no John Brown invasion of Virginia, none of the great and momentous issues presented which have shaken the land to its centre. Whatever of manhood, of self respect, of moral purity, of courageous freedom, is found at the North at this hour, is mainly due to the uncompromising principles and untiring labors of the Abolitionists; and, though they are still disowned by political cowardice and selfishness, and assailed by ruffian violence and demented blackguardism, the time is rapidly hastening when they will be acknowledged as worthy of universal gratitude, veneration and applause.

A BRACE OF PHILADELPHIANS.
STUDIES, by John A. Dorgan. Philadelphia: Printed for the Author, by Yeakel and Bro., No. 23 North Sixth Street.1862.
THE SONG OF IRON AND THE SONG OF SLAVES, with other Poems. By Kane O'Donnel. Philadelphia: King and Baird, Printers, 607 Sansom Street.1863.
How shall the voice of the poet, raised amid the din of arms, be heard? By very contrast or by unison? Will the ear, deafened by the roar of cannon, give heed rather to the poetry of sentiment and reflection, or to the paean and hymn of Mars? Each may decide for himself who shall have read the foregoing volumes. Not unmeaningly have their authors entitled them Studies and Songs, for such they are respectively, though the former collection is not destitute of songs. The muse of Mr. Dorgan, undistracted by the war that rages on every hand, utters truths which are lofty, indeed, and most applicable to the present hour, but in no sense evoked by it. His verses are all in the interest of freedom and progress, and so are valuable helps in the struggles of to-day; yet to-morrow may claim them as well. Mr. O'Donnel, on the contrary, seems touched by the inspiration of passing events, which he feels it his duty to help shape for the right, and this lends to his songs a vigor and a glow that are wanting in those of his fellowpoet and townsman. "The Song of Slaves" is by far his best production, containing many truly noble stanzas set to curt and forcible metre. "The Song of Iron" is marred, as it seems to us, by a tendency to obscurity, and by the too frequent use of anglolatin words; and in this, as in other pieces, there is an apparent strain after quaint and unusual expressions, that diminishes considerably the effect which is sought for. On the whole, the broad distinction which may be made between the two authors is, that, as the natural result of a contemplative spirit, perhaps, Mr. Dorgan inclines to melancholy lays, while Mr. O'Donnel prefers to carol and to chant. Who shall say which is preferable, or, at least, which is the more attractive? Times and moods, we suspect, must decide. Mr. Dorgan's book has the wider range, em­bracing some hundred pieces; the Songs of Mr. O'Donnel are but a third as numerous. That our readers may judge for themselves, we present this week in our poetry column selections from each of the books, and commend them, with such as we may hereafter publish, to a careful and discriminating pe­rusal.-W. P.G.
THE CONNECTICUT ELECTION. The success of the Union ticket in Connecticut, and the defeat of the traitorous Seymour, may be owing in some degree to the patriotic efforts of John Hooker, Esq., an eminent lawyer of Hartford. This gentleman, prevented by the state of his health from public speaking on political matters, but intimate with the leading lawyers of the State, and deservedly respected by them, sent, in the latter part of March, a circular letter to his friends of the legal profession who belonged to the Democratic party.
After pointing out as the author of our evils first slavery, and next the course of compromise with that system which the Democratic party for so many years has favored, Mr. Hooker proceeded to combat the doctrine lately put forth by that party, that the Union cannot be restored by warlike measures, and showed, on the other hand, the folly of expecting a restoration of quiet and prosperity through any such peace as compromise could bring; and, after replying in detail to several of the current fallacies put forth by the Seymourite party, be closed with an effective appeal to moral and religious considerations, pointing out that we are now taking our share in that sublime conflict which has been going on through all the ages, between liberty and despotism, right and wrong, the powers of good and the powers of evil; and showing that this conflict must go on till the right is everywhere established, and the wrong everywhere overthrown.
Mr. Hooker is connected by marriage with the Beecher family, and resembles them in being diligent in business and fervent in spirit.-C. K. W.
REV. M.D. CONWAY. Rev. Moncure D. Conway, a Virginian by birth, author of "The Rejected Stone” and "The Golden Hour," formerly a Unitarian clergyman in Washington and Cincinnati, and now editor of the Boston Commonwealth, is shortly to sail for England, to lecture on Slavery as it is in the South, and upon the present condition of this country. He was born in 1832 near Fredericksburg, Virginia, the scene of the recent battle. On both his father's and his mother's side he was descended from and connected with some of the oldest and best families of Virginia and Maryland-reckoning among his ancestors Thomas Stone, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, the late Judge Daniel of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Moncure of the Virginia Court of Appeals, Judge Eustice Conway, and others not less distinguished. His zeal in behalf of the enslaved has long been manifested in the most uncompromising manner, and in circumstances requiring great moral heroism. We heartily commend him and his mission to all the friends of freedom in the old world. 
"THE PIONEER BOY" is the title of a neat volume of 310 pages, written by W. M. Thayer, author of the "Bobbin Boy" and other works of interest to the young. It is published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston. It is a biographical sketch of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, and follows him step by step from his birth in a floorless cabin on the frontiers, and his youth in the Western wilds, till he rose to eminence at the bar, to a seat in Congress, and finally to the chief office of this great nation. The life of Mr. Lincoln is full of thrilling incidents, and shows the animus of the man, and the means by which he has risen.
RHODE ISLAND ELECTION. The Republican Union ticket was successful throughout Rhode Island. It prevailed in every county in the State, and every town in the eastern congressional district, except Newport. James T. Smith, of Providence, is elected Governor by about 2800 majority. Thomas A. Jenckes, of Providence, is elected to Congress from the eastern district by about 1900 majority; and Nathan F. Dixon, of Westerly, from the western district, by about 900. The Legislature stands on a joint ballot for the supporters of Mr. Smith 76, for his opponents 26.There are six vacancies.
CONNECTICUT ELECTION. This election was held on Monday last. After a canvass of almost unprecedented activity, the Republican Union party has succeeded in electing their candidate for Governor, Mr. Buckingham, by about 3000 majority, with a large majority in both branches of the Legislature, and three out of four members of Congress. In the last Congress, the Democrats had two members.
<c03>
THE RADICAL REMEDY.
Great speculation is prevalent as to the course that England may take in relation to this country. Prophets of evil are frequently anticipating that this or the other contingency will embroil us with that power. Some men seem to be always fearing and hating England. And just now, the very objectionable sentiments contained in the letter of Lord Lyons to Earl Russell have sharpened, and certainly tend to justify, these ill forebodings. But our chief danger is at home, and in the North. England may help or hinder, but she cannot be the main arbiter of our destiny. If this nation is to be saved, it must work out its own salvation by righteousness. Our right course is plain and clear, if not easy. The neglect to take this course by the Government is a very great evil; but the most alarming symptom of our disease is a general acquiescence by the people in this error of their official servants. The nation does not yet recognize its own disease, and its need of a remedy.
It was a serious error in the President not to use the absolute power which circumstances had put into his hands, for the utter extirpation of slavery. What folly, to parry one spring of the rattlesnake, and leave him to adjust his coil for a more successful effort! What folly, to threaten a beast intensely malignant and utterly desperate, giving him three months' warning of the coming blow, instead of using a present opportunity to strike, and strike home! To go no further back in the chain of Mr. Lincoln's errors, his Proclamation of the 22d of September should have been an immediate abolition of slavery throughout the country.
Even the emancipation of all the existing slaves would have been an insufficient remedy; since that would have left open the possibility of obtaining more; after any settlement of the present contest. The President's Proclamation, in the circumstances then existing, became one of the laws of the nation. The force of that law should have been turned against the institution of slavery; against the very existence of a relation by which one man is claimed as the property of another.
Instead of striking, Mr. Lincoln merely threatened. This, with a human enemy, might perhaps be reckoned praiseworthy forbearance. To use this method with a poisonous reptile was weakness, folly and sin.
Decisive and thorough action at that time would have settled the matter. The voice of authority, enacting the claim of right, possesses immense power to attract the sympathetic cooperation of good men, and to silence the murmurs of dissent. Three-quarters of the whole North would at once have seen the justice and wisdom of the decree, (as they did when their hopes and wishes respecting Mason and Slidell were reversed by Presidential action,) and the remaining quarter would have offered no opposition.
As soon as that measure was enacted, there would have been a clear line of distinction between loyalists and traitors, all along the slaveholding border. We should have escaped the pernicious complications now caused in every Northern State, and most of all in the Capital and the Cabinet, by the intermixture of wolves in sheep's clothing with all our operations, civil and military.
One of the most fatal obstacles to our success has been a system of discouragement and repulse exercised towards slaves by army officers; in consequence of the pretence of their masters to be loyal, and their claim, on that ground, for a continuance of the old usages. If every claim to the possession of a slave had been made illegal, not only would the companionship of traitors not have been thrust upon us, but the cooperation of black men would have been accepted and used, instead of repelled, to our four-fold advantage.
By the measure proposed, with the kindred movement of incorporating the colored people of the South into the army, and using their help in every manner possible, we should not only have made, at a stroke, four million friends, not only have withdrawn an essential means of support from the enemy, not only have struck terror into the border States, and given them the strongest of motives immediately to assume a loyal position, but we should have had at our disposal an immense army of new soldiers, already acclimated, acquainted, to a great extent, with the country, and with the plans and resources of the enemy, and having stronger motives than Northern men could possibly have, to stand by the Government which had freed them, and throw themselves entirely, body, soul and spirit, into its service.
Once more, by thus enlisting himself on the side of civilization, education and religion, against a system obviously and intrinsically barbarous, the President might have freed himself from all possibility of European intervention in favor of the rebels. It needed only this to cause Mason and Slidell to be frowned upon and put in Coventry by every representative of European civilization.
This needful work was not done on the 22d of September. Less than half of it was done even on the 1st of January. And the moiety thus commenced has not been steadily and uniformly pursued since, even in the regions occupied by our armies; still less has it been followed up by further installments of the course of policy indispensable to our success.
It is absurd to suppose that the mighty revolution now going on here can be stopped midway, and that we can subside into quietness while slavery remains as an element of our political life. 
Even if the powers that be should disgrace themselves so far as to consent to a reconstruction founded on the present continuance of slaveholding, with whatever delusive pretences of future gradual emancipation, we cannot have peace or quiet, still less selfrespect and welfare, while this abomination remains. It must be extinguished. Whatever energy is needed to destroy it must be exercised. Thank God that the slaves who have now had a taste of liberty can no more be reduced to a quiet acquiescence in bondange! Thank God that so many of our Northern men who were nonchalant triflers at home, regardless of the cancer that was devouring our country's vitals, have now had their eyes opened to the disease and the peril of the nation! Thank God that even the moderate steps forward that have been taken by our timid and vacillating Government have made retreat to the old disgrace impossible!
What is needed is for the people to stimulate the Government in the direction of a complete abolition of slavery. Let this be urged in every way, through every existing channel, through whatever new channels can be devised. Let the President be made to see and feel that nothing short of this will accomplish the nation's need, or be accepted as the nation's destiny.-C. K. W.
EDITORIAL SENIORITY. Since the recent decease of the Hon. Nathan Hale, we are inclined to believe that we have had the longest editorial service of any one connected with the press in this city. Let us see: In 1826, we edited the Free Press, an independent journal, in Newburyport; in 1827, the National Philanthropist, a Temperance paper, in Boston; in 1828-9, the Journal of the Times, in Bennington, Vermont; in 1829 30, the Genius of Universal Emancipation, in Baltimore; and from January 1,1831, till now, the Liberator-in all, covering a period of thirty-seven years. Who leads (not in age, but continuous service) the editorial van in Massachusetts? Who in New England? Who in the nation?
At a meeting of white and colored citizens in Philadelphia, on the evening of 31st ult. Rev. Stephen Smith presiding, resolutions were adopted highly complimentary to Massachusetts as the State representative of Puritan freedom, ever true and foremost in maintaining liberty, first to free slaves, first to award citizenship to black men, first to give them schools, first to save Kansas for freemen, first to defend the Capital in the present war, first to send teachers to the Port Royal slaves, and first to give black men a chance to fight for liberty. The meeting resolved to assist with all their power in filling up the Massachusetts 54th (colored) regiment.
<c04>
THE COLORED SOLDIERS AT PORT ROYAL.
CAMP SAXTON, (near Beaufort, S. C.)
March 23,1863. 
FRIEND GARRISON- I am pleased to learn from reading the Liberator, that your Southern correspondents are more numerous than they were a few years ago. It is peculiarly fitting that your paper, which was the first to foretell the consequences of slavery, should chronicle, at first hand, some of the events that are daily reducing some of its prophecies to history. 
Perhaps the most earnest-looking fact of the times is the call of the Government for colored soldiers. This is also the most important movement toward crushing the rebellion that the Government has yet made; for it is impossible for the North, mixed as it is with so much indifference and treason, to put down the rebellion, without such aid. 
To Gen. Hunter belongs the honor of raising and arming the first regiment of colored men in this part of the South. This regiment was raised in May, 1862. Finding that the regiment was not recognized, and would not be paid by the Government, Gen. Hunter disbanded it in August of the same year, neither officers nor men receiving any pay. This is a little matter of injustice for some future Congress to settle. 
Gen. Saxton returned from the North to Beaufort on the 13th of October last, with authority from the Secretary of War to raise a brigade of 5000 colored men, to be armed, clothed, fed and paid the same as other soldiers in the U. S. service. 
A new impetus was then given to recruiting, which was conducted strictly on the voluntary system. The obstacles in the way of recruiting for the new regiment were numerous. Among them may be mentioned the opposition of the military throughout this Department; the desire on the part of plantation superintendents to keep the men at home to work in the field; and, lastly, the generally-known fact, that the members of the last colored regiment were never paid anything for their services. 
I have learned from observation, that the time to make a soldier of one of these men is when he is fresh from slavery. After he has been inside our lines six months, and been allowed to spend his time in idleness, from a lack of work, or of inclination to perform it, been fed by Government, and clothed by the Freedman's Aid Associations, and ill-treated by our soldiers, he is not so much inclined to join the army. Captains James, Randolph and Hamilton, who had been in Gen. Hunter's colored regiment, raised portions of companies, and were the first to occupy the camp ground. Capt. Trowbridge, who had never disbanded his men, being on detached service at the time of Gen. Hunter's order to that effect, soon came up from St. Simons's Island with 150 men, and went into camp. Col. Higginson took command of the regiment on the 25th of November, and in a very few days things moved on in Camp Saxton with clock-work regularity. The time was so occupied in organizing and drilling the regiment at this period, that recruiting was hardly thought of, except by Lieut.-Colonel Billings, who made occasional visits to Fernandina and St. Augustine, Fla. Many of the best men in the regiment were obtained from those places.
The regiment was not full to the minimum until about the first of January. The camp was well laid out, a quarter of a mile from the river-the space between the camp and river being occupied by a grove of live oaks. The new tents showed off to good advantage down the river to the boats plying between Beaufort and Hilton Head. A large palmetto tent was erected by Chaplain Fowler for a school and religious purposes. The tents were all floored with yellow pine boards, brought from the Georgia coast. Every company had its cook-house, and usually wholesome food to eat; wheat flour was made into some very sorry substitutes for bread, but it gave satisfaction generally.
The health of the regiment was at first remarkably good, the first death occurring on the 4th of January. Since the expedition to St. Mary's, during which some of the men were crowded into hot rooms on the boats, and afterwards worked all day in the water, the mortality has increased, and twenty have died in all; three from gun-shot wounds. Most of the deaths are from pneumonia and typhoid pneumonia. The prevailing diseases in camp are those just named, and bronchitis, and rheumatism; intermittent fever and diarrhoea are quite rare.
As to their proficiency in drill, our men compare favorably with any regiment in the service; so says a correspondent of the Boston Journal, who has seen half a million of soldiers under drill.
Toward the last of February, Col. Montgomery arrived from Key West with about 150 men, and went into camp close by us. On the 5th instant, both regiments left camp, and embarked on board three transports, and in a few days landed at and took possession of Jacksonville, Florida.
The third regiment is being raised by draft. All the able-bodied men, between the ages of 18 and 50, are put into the camp, which is located on the site of the first.
By the middle of April, I expect to see the second and third regiments S. C. V. full, and ready for service. The great necessity now is, to get colored regiments enough in the field to take the place of the nine months' men as they go home. If we can do that, and get under good headway, the blacks alone can finish up the rebellion. We need now about 500 Abolitionists for officers in new regiments. Cannot New England furnish her share of them?
Yours, for truth and man, J. M. H.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
CAMP OF THE 33D MASS.VOL., } 
Near Aquia Creek, Va., April 3d,1863}
DEAR GARRISON,-I am now receiving a good supply of excellent reading matter for this regiment, and I assure you that it pays a hundred fold. The copperheads have appreciated the importance of supplying the soldiers with reading matter of a pro-slavery character, as one of the chief instrumentalities likely to defeat the policy of Emancipation. And so, from the first, they have freely spent their money to flood the army with the copperhead newspapers. In this work, they had the cooperation of army officers in high places, who were determined that this war should not result in the overthrow of slavery. Under the administration of McClellan at the East, and of Buel at the West, our armies wasted away, and precious time was lost, and nothing was gained. The author of the infamous order No. 3 was made Commander-in-chief at Washington. Fremont, as the Representative Man, the Man of the People, whose name was the Symbol of Liberty and the Assurance of Justice in every slavehut of the South, and who has inspired the people with the one great enthusiasm for Freedom, which marked the advent of his Proclamation, until its revocation by the President, was and is especially hated by this Commander-in-chief. There is a mental and moral antagonism between them which is irreconcilable. And so Fremont at the close of a brilliant campaign against Jackson was relieved, and has since been kept out of service, although every earnest patriot longs to see him in the field. So also Sigel, another true and thorough General, who is altogether on the side of freedom in this struggle, is driven to resign by the hard treatment meted out to him by the same Commander-in-chief.
And thus it came to pass that the country was brought to the verge of ruin. After the Fall elections, we passed through months of dense darkness and doubt. Traitors plied all their arts to demoralize the army. We were subjected to a terrible defeat at Fredericksburg through their influence. The failure of the pontoons to arrive, when expected, was not an accident; and when the attack on Fredericksburg was finally made, the battle was lost because our immense force on the right, where the enemy could be fairly reached, was not pushed forward and earnestly engaged at the decisive moment. No one has ever doubted the patriotism of General Burnside-no one can fail to honor him for his truthfulness and modesty. He has
<c05>
done noble service, and will again, we are sure, earn the country's grateful applause. But when he was put at the head of the army of the Potomac, he failed to suppress the treasonable talk and machinations of men who placed a favorite chief before their imperilled country in their affection. And hence he failed to grasp and control that army. At his own request, he was relieved from that responsible post, and Joe Hooker, familiarly called by the soldiers "fighting Joe," was made commander. He at once took the reins of control into his grasp, which has proved a strong and tenacious one. Arrangements were made by which soldiers could buy other papers besides the Herald and World. Incompetent and semi-treasonable officers were dismissed, and the men were all given to understand that there was work ahead for them, not with the spade and pickaxe, but with the bayonet. Our cavalry, which had almost always failed, was inspired to cope with and conquer the redoubtable Stuart. The brilliant affair at Kelley's Ford is the first installment of their work, and it does well for a beginning. Since Hooker's appointment, we have been mud-bound. March was a very stormy month, with many cold days. But the work of preparation has gone steadily on. The army is full of hope and enthusiasm, anxious to move, and sure to give a good account of itself whenever it comes at the enemy.
I can announce a grand work in this Regiment- a work of preparation through the past months for the work before us. For some weeks now, I have been receiving weekly packages of the following papers, to wit-Liberator, Standard, Congregationalist, Commonwealth, Transcript, Independent, and Principia. These I distribute among the men, who read them eagerly and grow better, more courageous, more hopeful, from their influence. I have also had a box of books and pamphlets from Prof. Rogers of Boston, worth to me in my work in the Regiment its weight in gold; also, another very valuable box of books from the Episcopalian Publishing House. And there is still another now awaiting me in Washington from Mr. Barnard of Boston. I am surprised to see the amount of good such reading does the soldiers. The sympathy for them, and the appreciation of their toil and suffering for the dear Fatherland, which these donations show the friends at home feel towards the army, is worth a great deal to these men, so far from home, and amid the dangers and privations of war. The evidence these papers give us of the tide of indignation rising throughout the North against the Copperheads greatly cheers the soldiers. It is impossible for any one to describe the scorn and detestation which the army feel for these Northern traitors. Let them beware the reckoning to which they will be called on the return of the army. They have laid up for themselves an inheritance of infamy, from which they will in future years vainly strive to be relieved. The Cushings, Lunts, Woods, Brookses, Seymours and Vallandighams may just as well give it up first as last. The future has nought but night and darkness for them. Even the Southern traitors loathe them, and freely declare that they are worthy only of contempt.
For two days past, the sun and a high wind have dried up the roads, and hardened them very fast. We shall undoubtedly move from here soon-I cannot pretend to say in what direction; but to victory I am confident we shall go. The men are all hopeful, and anxious to crush out this rebellion; and since the policy of enlisting and arming the colored man has been adopted, and the colored soldiers have won their spurs by noble conduct in the field, all opposition in the army to their fighting for us is ceasing. In this I notice also a wonderful change. Our soldiers will yet welcome the colored man to the army of Freedom and Union with enthusiasm. It is the first step that costs, and that has been taken, and, thank God, well taken! I know both Higginson and Montgomery, who are with the colored troops South, and nobler, better, abler men cannot be found. I should rejoice with all my heart to have command of a company in one of their Regiments.
Col. A. C. Maggi has resigned, to the deep regret of the whole Regiment. Thoroughly educated in the military academy at Turin, and serving for years as an officer with Garibaldi, he enlisted in our army as a private, at the first call of his adopted country. By his acknowledged merit, he has risen to his present command. He has been for the freedom of the slaves and for their employment as soldiers from the first. He would make a splendid General of a Division of colored soldiers, and I wish with all my heart that he might be called to such a post.
Dr. Warren also, our chief surgeon, has resigned. His experience in the field for two years, and his ability, which is of the first order, render him too valuable a man to leave in idleness. I hope the Governor will set him to work again in the army.
Truly yours, DANIEL FOSTER,
Chaplain 33d Reg. Mass. Vol.

STRIKE OF CAULKERS AGAINST A NEGRO AT THE NAVY YARD. The Navy Yard is a great institution for strikes among the workmen, and if they don't have something for excitement at least once a month, it is set down as a remarkable event. A very respectable colored man, from Baltimore, a day or two since, applied for a situation as a caulker and graver, being recommended by parties who knew him as a good workman. He was hired, and went to work. There are about two hundred and fifty men in the caulkers' department, and yesterday, without taking any preliminary steps in the matter, such as a meeting or a consultation among the members of the whole gang, about one hundred and sixty of the workmen came to the conclusion that they would not work if the colored man was allowed to remain in the yard, and refused to answer to their names at the roll call. The Captain of the Yard, Mr. Taylor, who is acting Commodore, in consequence of the death of Commodore Montgomery's daughter, upon learning the facts of the case, ordered the discharge of these men who refused to answer to the roll call.
There are now about 100 caulkers left, and most of these did not know the intentions of their brother workmen until they learned of the discharge. A few strongminded ones led on the rest, and the result was, instead of compelling Uncle Sam to accede to their demand, they all lost good situations.-Traveller of Tuesday.
All honor to "the Captain of the Yard"!

DONATIONS.
The General Agent of the Liberator acknowledges the receipt of the following donations, kindly made in support of the paper since January 1, 1863:- 
Albert M. Chase, Canton, Mass., $10.00
Francis Stone, Jr., Dana, Mass.50
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester, Mass 2.00
Isaac Bucklen, Elkhart, Indiana, 5.00
R. Kingman, Cummington, Mass.,.50
Wm. W. Hartshorn, Flint, Mich., 1.00
John H. Powers, Warren, Mass., 2.00
James Horswell, Boston, Mass 5.00
Mrs. Sophia L. Little, Newport, R. I., 1.00
Thomas Garrett, Wilmington, Del., 2.00
Alfred H. Love, Philadelphia, Pa., 2.00
Mrs. E. B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I., 5.00
Joseph A. Dugdale, Mt. Pleasant, Iowa, 5.00
Samuel W. Tubbs, New York City, 2.50
Hon.Samuel Gale, Montreal, Canada, 11.00
Charles A. Stackpole, Portland, Maine, 2.00
Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., and Friend, Boston, 20.00
Joseph Philbrick, Seabrook, N. H.,5.00
A. Parmenter, Newport, R.I., 2.00
L. Wetmore, Woleottville,. Conn., 2.00
B.Cheever, Portsmouth, N. H., 2.00
Ladies in Salem, (by Mrs. C.R Putnam,) 14.00
Emmett Densmore, Plumer, Pa., 12.00
C. B. LeBaron, New York City, 2.00
Miss Henrietta Sargent, Boston, Mass., 10.00
C. A. Richards, Philadelphia, Pa., 2.00
R. Bucklen, W. Winfield, N.Y., 2.00
A. L. Russell, Plymouth, Mass.,.50
J. B. Lyon, Cleveland, Ohio, 2.00
George sunter, Brantford, Canada West,2.00
Wm. P. Bolles, New London, Conn.,.50
Theodore T. Ovington, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1.00
J. H. Lawton, Pittstown, N. Y.,2.00
Charles Stearns, Central City, C. T., 6.50
John Gordon, Salem, Ohio,2.00
J. D. Zimmerman, Union City, Mich., 1.00
Thomas Cole, Salisbury Centre, N. Y.,.50
Job F. Angell, Manton, R. I., 3.00
Mrs. M. G. Thompson, Lancaster, Mass.  50
Miss E. S. Nash, Worcester, Mass.,. 50
In addition to this list a few individuals have subscribed for sundry copies of the Liberator, to be sent to persons named by them.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
Boston, April 3, 1863.
<c06>
FIFTY-FOURTH (COLORED) REGIMENT.
A CARD.-The Committee appointed by His Excellency the Governor to assist in the recruiting of this regiment, desire to state to the public that they are greatly in need of funds to facilitate the object of their appointment
Owing to the <illegible> of the colored population in Massachusetts, men were sought at distant points, whose transportation and subsistence are defrayed by the Committee. Not unfrequently recruits are rejected by the surgeon, and the expense of their return home is likewise borne by the Committee. Notwithstanding this, the expense attending the organization of this regiment is believed to be much less than that of any other which has let the State.
The aid furnished by the State for recruiting is comparatively limited, as it is based on the supposition of the recruits being found mainly within the Commonwealth.
Contributions to the fund will be thankfully received by the Treasurer and Secretary, Richard P. Hallowell, Esq., 98 Federal Street, Boston.
The following named gentlemen constitute the Committee:­George L. Stearns, John M.Forbes, Wm.I. Bowditch, Ames A. Lawrence, LeBarron Russell, Charles W. Slack, Richard P. Hallowell.
Boston, March 30, 1863.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THE FIFTY-FOURTH (COLORED) REGIMENT.
I have received in aid of the 54th Regiment the following sums not previously acknowledged, viz.:-
Rev. Nathaniel Hall, $5; A friend, 2; Mrs. C. F. Hovey, 20; Wm. A. Hovey, 10; G. C. Hickock, 5; John J. May, 100; John Gardner, 25; Geo. D. Whittle, 10; John Curtis, 5; Mrs. P. T. Jackson, 30; J. A. Newell, 5; Mrs. Sumner, 10; A friend, 1; R. W. Emerson, 10; W. W.Churchill, 10; Mrs. A. A. Burrage, 25; Rev. J. T. Sargent, 5; A friend, 3; Geo. B. Farnsworth, 5; Prof. W. B. Rogers, 20; R. K. Darrah, 10; Hon. John Z. Goodrich, 25; Rev. C. A. Bartol, 5; Friends in Cambridgeport, 50; Charles Buffum, 20; G. W. Robinson, 5; Burnham & Scott, 16. Also from Geo. S. Winslow, 10 doz. suspenders; Cutter Tower & Co., 1 box stationary; Mrs. R. C. Waterston, 3 pair socks; Miss Henrietta Sargent, needle books, and 15 pair socks; Palmer & Batchelder, 4 gross army buttons; Martin L. Bradford, 6 pair shears; Mrs. A. T. Q. Parsons, 12 needle cases; Mrs. Barstow, 3 pair socks; Miss McFarland, 26 towels; Miss Gardner, 24 pair socks; J. C. Burrage, 150 yards towelling.
J. H. STEPHENSON, Treasurer,
For the Committee.
12 Arch Street, April 4, 1863.
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Receipts into the Treasury, from Jan. 28 to March 31, 1863. February 5. Collections and Donations at Annual
Meeting, $349.08
Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam, Salem, to 
redeem pledge, 10.00
Jacob Leonard, East Bridgewater, to 
redeem pledge, 5.00
March 19. Bourne Spooner, Ply mouth, to redeem 
pledge of January, 1863, 20.00
March 30. Samuel May, Jr., to redeem pledge of 
January, 1863, 50.00
March 31. John C. Haynes, to redeem pledge of 
January, 1863, 10.00
Collections by C. C. Burleigh. 
North Society, Conn., $2.01; Westminster, 2.36; Canterbury, 1.50; Scotland, 5.21; Putnam, 3.11; Plainfield, 1.84; Central Village, 1.79; Wauregan, 89 cts.; Phoenix, R. I., 2.49; Washington, 3.48; Centreville, 2.11; Knightsville, 1.00; Cummington, Mass., 5.00; Leeds, 43 cts.; Leicester, 1.81; E. L. Hammond, Florence, to redeem pledge, 5.00.. 40.03 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, March 31, 1863.
TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE. The eloquent Address of WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., on the great St. Domingo chief, TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE, delivered at the Cooper Institute, in New York, March 11, 1863, may be obtained on a printed sheet at the Anti-Slavery Office, Room No. 6, 221 Washington Street. Single copy, 3 cents. By the dozen or more, 2 cents each. An additional charge of 1 cent, where forwarded by mail.
PLEDGES to the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1862, or previously to that time, are now fully due, and may be paid to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, 22 Chatham Street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o'clock, A. M., on the 9th chapter of Daniel, containing an account of the seventy weeks to precede the final consummation of the world.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in QUINCY, Sunday, April 12th, at half past 2 P. M., and half past 6 in the evening.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
OBITUARY.
DEATH OF PROFESSOR FRANCIS. Rev. CONVERSE FRANCIS,D. D., Professor of Pulpit Eloquence and Pastoral Care in the Cambridge Divinity School, died at his residence in Cambridge, on Tuesday last, April 7th, aged sixty-eight years. He was a native of Medford, and graduated from Harvard in 1815, and was for nine years pastor of the First Church in Watertown. He was a brother of Mrs.L. Maria Child, highly esteemed, of most exemplary character and amiable disposition, benevolent and humane in spirit, and an early friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, the final triumph of which he longed to witness. Dr. Francis was a man of remarkable intellectual endowments, and in profound and varied learning, perhaps no man in this country ever surpassed him, except Theodore Parker. Blessings upon the memory of this good and gifted man!
At East Aurora, N. Y., NATHANIEL FILLMORE, father of Ex-President Fillmore, aged 92 years. He was a man of the most temperate habits-making it a rule through life- long before temperance societies were known-never to use intoxicating liquors as a beverage, or offer them to others! He enjoyed almost uninterrupted good health, and was so well when upwards of eighty years of age, as to be able to visit his son at Washington, that being the only instance when a President of the United States ever received a visit from his father at the executive mansion.
Regular College for Young Women.
Chartered by the State of Pennsylvania, with full
University powers, including authority to grant
Diplomas and confer DegreeS.
J.Warrenne Sunderland, A. M, LL. D., President.
THE College is LIBERAL in its character, and conducted
 upon principles in harmony with the spirit of this practical and progressive age.
The daughters of New England, who thirst for higher mental development, and a more liberal and thorough education, than are attainable at most of our " Fashionable Female Seminaries," are invited to avail themselves of the advantages of the
PENNSYLVANIA FEMALE COLLEGE,
at FREELAND, Montgomery Co., Pa., near Philadelphia.
The Institution is amply provided with able Teachers, and all needful facilities for imparting a thorough and complete education in all the useful and ornamental branches of learning. The location is easy of success healthy, and delightful. The expenses are very moderate.
Send for a circular, containing full particulars. Address 
as above. Aprill 10.2m
Residence for Sale in Concord, Mass.
A GENTLEMAN going to Europe desires to sell a very desirable residence pleasantly situated in Concord,Mass. The house has nine good rooms besides attics, storerooms, closets, large bath-room, &c. It is surrounded by a fine and well cultivated garden, full of healthy fruits, apples, pears, cherries, plums, grapes, &c. Furniture (new) 
sold, if desired. Terms easy-part secured by mortgage on the estate. Apply to HENRY G. DENNY, 42 Court Street, 
Boston. april 10.3w
 MAGIO CURE FOR CORNS,
in five minutes, without pain, by Dr. N. KENNISON'S improved medicines applied only at his rooms, No.21 TEMPLE PLACE, rear of 307 Washington Street, Boston. All troubles of the feet treated on scientific principles. april10-6
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE PROCLAMATION.
Faintly gleamed Freedom through the murky cloud
Of Slavery, which lowering long has hung
Over America, the fair, the young;
Of hard won Independence justly proud.

Alas, alas! that freemen would not prize
The sacred, precious boon of Liberty,
Unless to them slave brethren bent the knee,
And at their bidding brake the holiest ties

Of family and kindred, God-bestowed:-
Alas! that self-styled Christians strive to raise
Themselves to greatness, as in ancient days
Barbaric kings and conquerors on the bowed

Necks of the wretched vanquished proudly trod
To their unstable, because blood-stained thrones.
Where lie Old Slavery's splendors? Heaps of stones
Bury its hideous relics; as earth's sod

Would hide forever from God's awful sight,
That cruelty, injustice, tyranny,
Her sons were not ashamed the day should see-
— Buried forever 'neath oblivion's night.
 Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

From the Hastings (Mich.) Banner.
EMANCIPATION.
The fiat has gone forth, the word is spoken,
The great decree is past;
The fetters of the slave are rent and broken,
And he is free at last!

If he is held in galling bondage longer,
‘Tis that the power of Might,
With treason and oppression leagued, is stronger
Than is the power of Right.

That Right will triumph in the dire abrasion,
Our faith remains intact;
And we may read the word, “Emancipation,"
A true historic fact.

 We must advance. There is no retrograding;
No backward movement now;
The sacred cause of human freedom aiding,
Our giant chieftain's brow

Glows with a halo of immortal glory.,
That ages cannot dim;
His act the crowning word in the glad story
Of Freedom's holiest hymn.

Ye dusky tribes, attend! Emancipation
Strikes from your limbs the chain;
Pledged to your freedom is a mighty nation;
Nor will the pledge be vain.

Arouse! arise! Let the event awaken
Your dormant energies;
Oppression's strongest citadel is shaken,
And soon in ruin lies.

From the Pariah's and the Helot's station,
To chainless manhood spring;
And to those struggling for your liberation,
A timely succor bring.

Gird on your armor, dare the strife of battle,
And strike for liberty;
Prove to the world that every human chattel
Is worthy to be free!
H. WOODWORTH.

THE MARTYR.
When, from a life of god-like strife,
The indignant martyr soars to God,
Though vultures blacken o'er his fame,
And tear his clod;

Let us not weep for him, but keep
His memory; let his glorious death,
Crowning a valiant life, renew,
Not shake our faith.

But weep for those, his guilty foes,
On whom his blood a curse shall be,
To haunt their silken dreams; a dread
That will not flee;

The secret fear of vengeance near,
That passes vengeance; and the doubt,
Forbidding with its evil eye
The calm without:

Or those, the men who know not when
A kingly soul, amidst our dearth
Of thought and deed, by life or death
Has fed the earth.

His faith sublime grown blind to time
By gazing on eternity,
They cannot understand, and yet
They hear and see.

As if for trade the stars were made,
Madman! they cry, when one comes forth,
Of truth and justice, with his blood
To prove the worth.

Aye, weep for them, and not for him:
And live that ye, beyond the years,
May meet him at the feet of God,
Nor move his tears.
Philadelphia. JOHN A. DORGAN.

THE FUGITIVES.
Long way they fled, the wilderness before,
With bleeding feet and limbs the thickets tore;
Through swamp and brake, the serpent hissing nigh,
The night-bird shrieked, and sped the bittern by;
On, ever on; the bloodhounds bayed behind;
Fear under foot, and death upon the wind:
"Brother, “cried one, "O long the way must be,
And I must die, ere freedom I shall see!"

Burned down the far sun like a blood-shot eye,
And lurid night-fires struggled to the sky;
Still came the gaunt pursuers on their track;
They heard the tyrants' voices at their back.
Then savage grew that giant negro's frown;
He grasped his obains, and struck his master down.
'On, on!”he cried, "though long the way must be,
'Tis longer yet the path of slavery."

Their mountain covert kept they to the dawn:
"Up, up!”the strong one cried, "we must be gone!"
"Brother, I die, “the weary wanderer said;
The other raged-"Some devil, give me bread!"
In vain their strength whom foe and want consume.
One back they led in shackles unto doom;
Rang in his ears a dying brother's cry-
"Farewell to life, and welcome Liberty!"
Philadelphia, 1863. KANE O DONNEL.
O'DONNEL.
A WELCOME TO THE YOUNG PRINCESS.
BY ALFRED TENNYSON, THE POET LAUREATE. 
Sea-kings' daughter from over the sea,
Alexandra!
Saxon, and Norman, and Dane are we,
But all of us Danes in our welcome of thee,
Alexandra!
Welcome her, thunders of fort and of fleet!
Welcome her, thundering cheer of the street!
Welcome her, all things youthful and sweet,
Scatter the blossoms under her feet!
Break, happy land, into earlier flowers!
Make music, O bird, in the new-budded bowers!
Welcome her, welcome her, all that is ours!
Warble, O bugle, and trumpet, blare!
Flags, flutter out upon turrets and towers!
Flames, on the windy headland flare!
Utter your jubilee, steeple and spire!
Clash, ye bells, in the merry March air!
Flash, ye cities, in rivers of fire!
Welcome her, welcome the land's desire,
Alexandra!

Sea-kings' daughter as happy as fair,
Blissful bride of a blissful heir,
Bride of the heir of the kings of the sea,
O joy to the people, and joy to the throne,
Come to us, love us, and make as your own;
For Saxon, or Dane, or Norman we,
Teston, or Celt, or whatever we be,
We are each all Dane in our welcome of thee,
, Alexandra!
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHRISTMAS WITHOUT CHRIST. 
"You are very chary of your company, lately, Adela. Pray, may I ask where you keep yourself? “was the gruff remark and surly interrogation of the master, as the white slave-mistress entered his room.
“I have been putting Adela to bed, dear. She is quite ill with one of her headaches which has been coming on since yesterday. I shall not be surprised if she has fever this time."
"Overstocked with brain-that's all, woman, “replied the half-intoxicated man with a sneer. “Brains are a great inconvenience in some cases. But there's a remedy-there's a remedy for this, even.”And he laughed a low, hideous laugh, that sent a recoil through the very soul of his companion. There was no outward evidence of emotion on her part, however, for every muscle of that once beautiful face had grown rigid by discipline. Turning toward her not only changed, but absolutely transformed master, (for that, in every sense of the offensive word, he now was,) she asked with her habitual kindness of tone and gentleness of manner,
“How is your bead, this evening, Edward? “Then forcing a smile, she added, “You must not be hard on our Adela for being so often disabled this way-it comes quite naturally. Shall I bathe your temples, dear, as I have bathed hers? 
"Yes, pet, if it's only that I may have your hand on my forehead, “he answered with a maudlin leer of repulsive fondness. "But first prepare me a glass of your infallible, Ad, my pet-your infallible, you know. Do it yourself, Ad, don't trust it to Aunt Leah."
The "infallible” was prepared with alacrity. Nor did it lack an opiate of sufficient power to secure sleep until the morrow should be well astir. And as the cruelly wronged, unwed wife bent over the couch, smoothing the sin-stained and furrowed brow, she spoke words of endearment once gushing warm from the heart, but now forced on to the lips by outward expediency.
“Has Harry got back from the Valley yet?" murmured the dozing inebriate.
“I shall not expect him, dear, until the day after tomorrow. You thought he would be gone a week, but I made him promise to be back Christmas Eve."
“Ah, Christmas Eve-great things Christmas Eve-ha?“ and the sin-wrecked body stumbled into profound sleep with that word. The pale soother waited until the sleep was certain, then stole from the room-other and more momentous cares waited her.
Entirely rayless was that midnight, except where large, fluttering snow-flakes, like the ghosts of Autumn-leaves, streaked the black velvet gloom with ghastliness. Like ghosts they disappeared as they fell, melting into the saturated, melancholy soil; while a sobbing wind swept, like surging grief, through the tops of the low pines and cedars, and wailed like despair around the craggy points and through the narrow gorges of the rocks.
Along the banks of the Occoquan two human figures were making their way at a rapid pace and in profound silence. Now they started and clung closer to each other, as the outline of some isolated tree or shrub revealed itself through the darkness, in the likeness of a pursuer; now, losing their pathway, they clambered among briers and rocks, each helping the other with eager hands, whose fervent clasp was their only expression of joy and gratulation when the way again was unobstructed; now the uncertain soil yielded be neath their weary but unresting feet, and they fevered with the delay necessary for extricating themselves from the imprisoning mud; while, from the black front of the beneficently shrouded heavens, the pitiless rain, chilled to the very verge of crystallization, soaked their garments and benumbed their frames. Two female figures, out in this drear midnight-stealing away from shelter and the habitations of men-flying-from what crime? In what delirium of remorseful dread and shame? O, God, bend yet more impenetrably around them the solemn mystery of thy protecting palm; cushion, it matters not how, the surface of thy earth, that it echo not their footsteps, then cover their prints in this blighted soil with thy winter-snows, that the burning eyes of the enraged pursuer find no track to guide him!-For, alas! after eighteen hundred years, the mother must still flee with her innocent child, by night, if she would save it from a worse than Herod. Herod sought only the life.
Still they toiled on, forcing a more nervous energy into their movements, in proportion as they felt the power of muscle give way. At length, emerging from a grove of low pines, and turning an abrupt angle around an elevation of rocks, earth and shrubs, the elder of the two wayfarers paused, and arresting the steps of her companion by a firmer grasp of her hand, looked inquiringly around; then spoke, through tumultuous pantings of emotion and fatigue:-
“Yes, God be praised, my treasure, this is the place. We are on the soil once owned and trodden by the Father of his country; surely, his spirit will protect my helpless child. Yonder are the ruins of the old Powheek church; another turning, darling, and less than half a mile brings us to Aunt Juno's hut."
The younger threw her arms passionately around the neck of the speaker, sobbing, through smothering caresses, “I safe, and you still there-O, my mother, my mother! Let us die here, together."
“Hush, dearest! For me there is no danger; for both, speed is necessary, now. Let us not delay an instant, beloved child."
Again they pressed forward with incredible celerity, as if their soaked, mud-encumbered garments had been fancy attire, and that tedious path the music-led mazes of a dance. Ah, the song of Freedom was sounding in 
the heart and vibrating in the pulses of one-
but not for herself! Suddenly a tall pine-tree, somewhat isolated from its neighboring kindred, met the straining vision of the mother. “See, see, darling! There is the hut-the light! Thank God, they are prepared for us!"
At sight of this longed-for goal, which, while it promised a door of escape from her threatened, dreadful destiny, was to shut forever, perhaps, in this life, that beloved mother from her view, the heart of the youngest fugitive sickened and stood still; her eyes dimmed, her sense reeled; and the exhausted mother sank down on the cold, wet bosom of the ground, beneath the burden of her lifeless child.
"Take us, take us both to thyself, O, Beneficent Father! was the first ejaculation of that suffering soul, as she folded the inanimate form to her bosom. The next instant, the thought of those twins, less dear, perhaps, because less imperilled-her own by nature, while not her own by national law-shot through her mind; the thought of her boy, involved in this flight, whose young life would be tortured from the body piece-meal, by fiendish vengeance, if his complicity should be detected, flashed with fiery illumination across her momentarily bewildered brain, and reenergized failing strength and will. What should be done? A call through the night-silence would reach the hut, but it might also reach less friendly ears somewhere in the darkness. One great gush of heart-ventilating tears, one importuning prayer for added power from the Source of all power; and, just as the prostrate woman was about rising with her priceless burden, an oblong of cheerful light took the place of the door of the hut; then a figure stood in that light-leaning forward, peering into the blackness, listening in intent attitude a moment. Had he felt that agouised yearning from the overborne wayfarer? No doubt he had, for there is a language that controls space and time; a language that fails not to reach its destination, and bear its message, whatever obstacles and distances intervene-the voiceless language of sympathizing hearts, bridging chasms of loneliness and cataracts of opposition with its direct, onward force.
A moment that figure paused in the light, then bounded into the darkness, to the spot whence that
<c03>
soul-call came. “Harry, Heaven itself has sent you-help, help, my son! ”Boy as he was, he lifted the senseless form of his sister as if it had been that of an infant, and, followed by their mother, soon laid her on the soft matting before Aunt Juno's glowing fire. The warm, invigorating repast and the comfortable he had been made ready by the skill and forethought of the faithful negress; but the first offices were bestowed upon the still inanimate girl.
“Have your horse ready at a word, my dear Harry. ”The boy left the hut; and, with the kindly aid of Aunt Juno, the sobbing mother removed the torn and draggled garments from Adela, supplying their places from the comfortable store forwarded by Harry; then chafing her benumbed limbs until the life-currents once more circulated freely, they administered an opiate in a warm, nourishing draught, and placed her in bed. The mother pressed her cheek to that resting on the pillow, whispering, because she could not trust her broken voice-”Sleep, blessed, while mother sits by the fire with Aunt Juno."
“But you will waken me, mother dear, in a few moments?"
"As soon as your strength returns, my darling, “kissing brow and lips with prolonged and gently soothing pressure.
“I am very tired-and weak-but-darling mother" The opiate was taking effect, although a very gentle one. The mother could not risk, in her child's exhausted state, the dangers to her of a parting scene.
Under Aunt Juno's active hands, the personal needs of that mother were now abundantly supplied; she, herself, feeling too intensely how much depended on what remained for her to do, to neglect any means which would keep alive her energies. The cast off garments of Adela, even to the mud-imbedded. shoes, were carefully rolled in a bundle and securely fastened to the pommel of the saddle-they had a mission yet to perform. All things being ready for her return, the senior Adela approached the good genius of the hut, and throwing herself on her knees before her, and clasping both her sable palms in her fair, slender hands, and lifting her agonized face to hers, exclaimed, in a voice steadied by earnestness, yet sunk almost to a thrilling whisper lest it should awaken the sleeper-
“Aunt Juno, you are good, and you have suffered-I know I may trust you-but, forgive a mother's urgency! As you hope to meet in a better world the dear daughter you lost forever, here; as you hope for mercy, in your extremest need, at the hands of Our Father and Judge, do all you have promised for my child! Juno, swear to me again!"
“Missis Adela, as I hope for mercy in dat great day-as I hope to see my los Flora up dar-(lifting her face, with a solemnity that made it sublime, to heaven,) I promise all-fear nothin' from Juno."
Adela rose to her feet, still clasping the hands of the negress, and with a fervency that might have pierced the very gates of blessing, said,
“The smile of Our Heavenly Father rest forever on you and yours, dear, dear, Juno!“ Then, throwing her arms around her neck, she sealed the benediction with an affectionate kiss. Approaching the bed, she bent a moment over the sleeper, drinking into her inmost soul each treasured lineament, yet fearing to look too long, or bend too low, or touch, with a finger, even, lest the magnetism of her emotion should awaken her child. Softly she knelt by the lowly couch, with reverently covered face, and left there the most sleepless of angel-guardians-a mother's prayer. With downcast eyes, pale cheek and compressed lips, she left the hut. It was over-the two might never meet again in a world whose mission to them, thus far, no thought or faith could explain, if this world were all.
In silence, mother and son mounted the gentle but fleet “Spero,“ the former holding carefully by the sacred bundle. In silence they swept circuitously over the distance traversed with such toil during those memorable midnight hours. The same good Providence directed the storm that had spread out the darkness-snow was falling fast, and filling up every trace of travel.
In an incredibly brief period, they had reached that part of the Occoquan which washed the Herman Plantation on one side. Dismounting, the mother led the way to a point where the bank sloped irregularly to the stream, between ragged rocks; around and over portions of these rocks the river shot with great velocity, thence rushing with fuller volume and unimpeded course towards the Potomac. Here, unrolling the bundle, with the assistance of Harry the outer garments of Adela were so disposed, at different points, and the bank so marked and indented, as to produce the appearance of self-destruction on the part of the young girl. When the strange, melancholy task was accomplished, the mother pressed her son to her heart, saying in an earnest whisper, 
"Hasten, now, Harry, darling! while the snow can conceal your pathway. I must hasten, too. Be vigilant and careful in everything, my brave boy! Carry my blessing to your precious sister-O, it will seem an age until I see you! Go-go-God bless you!"
The boy mounted, and galloped off-the mother as hurriedly making her way on foot to the mansion.
"When the Planter awoke from his prolonged slumber, the pale, worn, haggard looking slave-mistress was pacing his room in disordered altire, and with despair in every motion.
Prefacing his question with a terrible oath, he demanded what was the matter-if he was dying.
“My child, my Adela has gone-gone forever!” and there was no mere acting in the grief and exhaustion under the influence of which the broken-hearted woman sunk to the floor.
With the fearful rage of disappointed malice and cupidity, Herman sprang from his bed, uttering an imprecation that would have annihilated the insensible form before him, if the power of evil had not its limits. Touching her with his vile foot, and finding she was, indeed, past all ability to reply to his furious demands, his clamors soon brought in straggling members of the household. Huldah was one of the first to enter, her face swollen and eyes red with crying. She needed not the imperative gesture of the madman before her to hasten to her prostrate mother. Meantime the information he could gather was to this effect-when Sylvia entered Adela's room, several hours ago, by direction of “Missis” “Adela, to see how she was, the negress found it vacated by its occupant, and the window which opened upon a low roof in the courtyard thrown up. This must have occurred some hours before that, for the snow had driven in at the open casement, quite across the apartment. Sylvia called “Missis, “who owned that she had fallen asleep about four o'clock, after having been a great part of the night with Adela, who, when she left her, seemed tranquilly sleeping. "Missis” at once dispatched a half dozen slaves in the direction of the river, and as many more to the mountains, with orders for some of their number to return as soon as they found any trace of the unfortunate girl.
By this time the mother was restored to consciousness, and something like pity seemed to gleam up from the still smouldering ruins of the Planter's heart. He spoke kindly to the sufferer, and bade Sylvia see that she was properly cared for, while he, himself, prepared to join in the search. But at that moment there was an uproar in the court-yard, which announced the return of one or the other party. It was from the river-a shoe, a shawl, a handkerchief with her name, had 
been found-there was no doubt of her fate! Long ere this, her lifeless body was floating down the Potomac to the Bay. The demonized father, the bankrupt Planter, had lost his victim and his prize; what cared he for the useless remains? Back, every seeker, from river and mountain! And they came back.
As one stunned and stupefied by the blow, the mother lay in perfect stillness and colorless as marble, while Huldah sobbed to suffocation beside her; the Planter alternately drank and raved; and the house was filled with the wailings of its other superstitious, affectionate inmates.
Christmas Eve came, bringing its expected and dreaded guest from the Appomattox-the elated creditor, Mr. Belmaine. Another guest it brought, who al-
<c04>
ways is unexpected even when waited for; always dreaded, even when his visit is one of mercy-the universal creditor of all mankind! In this instance how truly was he welcomed by tortured hearts, although he came in terrors unimaginable. Edward Herman closed. his fearful account with time, amid the horrors of delirium, tremens, before the dawn of Christmas -Day. Ah, to those who witnessed that scene, it was, indeed, a Christmas without a Christ!
PRINCIPLE SUBJECTED TO PRACTICAL TESTS.
THE CHRISTIAN INTELLIGENCER ON SAWYER'S
BIBLICAL THEORIES.
MR. EDITOR
THE CHRISTIAN INTELLIGENCER ON SAWYER'S BIBLICAL THEORIES.
MR. EDITOR-New- and improved views on religious and moral questions serve as excellent tests of Christian character, and the principles of many Christians, when brought to these tests, appear sadly to disagree with those of Christ, and with God's eternal laws. There are two laws of Christ, which are at the same time a part of the eternal law and of the nature of man:
1. The law of love. 
2. The law of right doing, grounded on love.
To build up systems of Christianity on arbitrary principles and traditionary faiths, without these cardinal principles, is to build up a body and leave out the soul, the only principle of organic and intellectual power, and sole subject of conscious glory and happiness. Such a body is incapable of any of the offices of life, and: subject to physical laws which consign it to protracted repose or speedy dissolution.
The improved translation of the Bible, as far as published, and the reconstruction and improvement of Biblical science, carrying into it the established and undeniable principles of all science, are operating as great experimental tests of religious principle, in the public mind, and disclosing surprising and unexpected corruption. The author begs leave to call attention to one of these developments, and to hold it up before the eye of Christendom for observation. Unfortunately, it is not solitary, but is kept in countenance by much respectable company. Its chief importance is derived from the fact, that it is only one of a great number of like developments; and that the consideration of it involves an examination of false principles which are extensively received and effectively operating in large and powerful Christian bodies.
The case referred to is a critical notice of the author's Reconstruction of Biblical Theories, in the Christian Intelligencer, published by Charles Wyck, 103 Fulton street, New York. The article commences with the following statements:-
“It is really puzzling to know how fitly to notice a work whose contents are composed so entirely of balderdash and twaddle as this is. On looking into it, we first supposed it to have been written by some lunatic; but recollecting that its author was first a renegade Unitarian from Congregationalism, and then a renegade infidel from Unitarianism, we suspected the existence of a method in his madness; and such there doubtless is."
Men judge books as they do other things, according to their capacities, knowledge, preestablished opinions and interests. Every new book is a puzzle to an incompetent critic, and every progressive and aggressive book offends and confounds the conservators of traditionary errors. The eagle is a noble bird, and generous and devoted to her young, but having by mistake provided them with a sickly lamb, she battles to the death to secure for them the supposed benefit; not aware that her success will be their destruction. The critic appears to be standing on guard over traditionary religious errors, under the misapprehension, that if he fails to provide for their safety, the world will perish, and the plans of the Infinite be frustrated. It is incident to the condition of birds sometimes to battle for poisoned meat, and to the condition of men sometimes to contend for the decaying and pestilential carcasses of old delusions that breed only infection, misery and death. The ignorant cannot for the time help their ignorance, nor the mistaken their mistakes; the heights of superior knowledge are gained with difficulty, and many strive for them in vain. But while acquitting the critic of blame, as far as possible, for an incorrect judgment, we are compelled to accept that judgment both as a measure of his knowledge and capacity, and, to some extent, a creature of his heart, and an index of his principles. We must also hold him responsible for the publication of his judgment, and hold the judgment itself amenable to the laws of moral action.
The critic tells you, that the contents of the book are entirely balderdash and twaddle. In doing so, he claims to know, and, as a Christian critic, he claims to say what is true, and what is conformable to the spirit and laws of God. If he has examined the book with due care, and passed an honest judgment on every part of it, and if this is that honest judgment, it may be right for him to publish it as he has done; but, if his examination has been slight and superficial, and his judgment from that cause, or from interest, or any other sinister cause, has been made erroneous, he has committed a wrong, and stands criminated in the face of heaven as an unjust judge.
If the critic is correct, the author must sadly have missed his aim. He went into the mines of past ages, to see what treasures they had. He explored the most ancient records, and some of the most ancient languages of the human race, to ascertain with certainty what information they could give, and what light they could shed on the great problems of human existence and destiny. His search was directed for truth and knowledge, for the most important truth, and the most valuable knowledge; and having enriched himself, as he supposed, with choice and invaluable stores, gems from the mountain and gold from the stream, stores fit for the cabinet of angels, if he has failed entirely in this search of years, if he has dug up nothing of value, not even a fragment of old earthen ware, or a stone implement of old industries and arts, his search has been profitless indeed. The critic judges the book entirely destitute of every thing of value. Is that the fault of the book? or is it the fault of the critic, and is he an incompetent judge? Judges are expected to give reasons for their judgments; and they have no weight, and command no respect, except in view of those reasons. This judge has sagely withheld his reasons; he gives you his bare judgment, unsustained by a shadow of evidence; he does not even specify the particulars to which he objects; he condemns the whole, en masse. Such a procedure in judicial matters would be quite extraordinary; but, unfortunately, the safeguards which experience and custom and positive law have exacted for the restraint of unjust judges, in the State, do not extend with effect to the benches of religious and literary criticism.
To give the uninformed some slight insight of this case, let some of the contents of the book be stated:-
1. Discussions of the Greek and Hebrew languages, their ages, and the age of the earliest sacred books.
2. The history of the name “Jehovah, “and its ancient pronunciation.
3. Translations of select portions and documents of the early sacred books.
4. Interpretation of the early sacred books to the times of Samuel, in which many allegoric elements are noted and explained, on the same principles as are applied to the ancient books of other nations, and to all other literary works.
Some of the author's opinions may be wrong; he neither admits infallibility to others, nor claims it for himself. Some of them he trusts are correct, and will command the respect of candid and thorough inquirers, and the acceptance and faith of coming ages. In the author's judgment, much new light is shed on these interesting theories, and he defies the critic and his class to prove him wrong in any of the essential points and main conclusions of his system.
But the most characteristic and instructive part of this criticism is what is said of the author. On looking into the book, the critic first supposes it to have been written by some lunatic; he then recollects, as he
<c05>
says, that its author was first a renegade Unitarian from Congregationalism, and then a renegade in-fidel from Unitarianism, and suspects the existence of a method in his madness. This is truly astute, but, unluckily, it is a lie, and shows that the critic, has either invented, or taken up from another inventor, false witness against his brother. This is neither Judaic nor Christian. The author of Biblical Theories was bred a Congregationalist, and for many years labored in the Congregational and Presbyterian connections. Latterly, he left the Presbyterian connection for the Congregational, in which, on all occasions, he maintained the right and duty of free thought and untrammelled judgment, and the orthodoxy of truth. In the latter years of his associated ministry, he belonged to an association in the State of New York, with the members of which he lived in perfect fraternal affection. In his Biblical studies he was progressive, and his inquiries sometimes led him to surprising results. In the course of years, he perceived several great historical and critical mistakes, in the commonly accepted history and interpretation of the sacred books, which, after due consideration, he commenced publishing. At length, finding himself embarrassed by his association with brethren who did not and could not at once appreciate his improved views on Biblical subjects, he requested a dismission from his Association, to stand as an independent Congregational minister. This was kindly granted, and he stands henceforth as an independent Catholic Congregational minister. To distinguish himself from others, who may occupy similar positions with different views, he assumes the style of Catholic.
In the course of his studies, the author's views have gradually changed, and been improved, as the legitimate result of examination and attention to evidence; application is the price of progress. On many subjects those changes are radical and fundamental, and they embrace a concurrence with several of the leading views of the Unitarians. But, whatever these changes are, the author has not acted the renegade; he has simply acted the part of the Christian scholar. In respect to his ecclesiastical relations, he has made but a single change; he was an associated Congregationalist, he has become an independent one; he was a restricted Congregationalist, he has become a catholic one. He does not ostracise any part of the Christian world, and hopes not to be anathematized by any part of it. Scholars are not accounted renegades from the sciences for improving them; Copernicus was not a renegade from the science of astronomy, nor Sir Isaac Newton from that of philosophy; just as little is any man a renegade from any Christian bodies for contributing to the advancement of Biblical and religious science. Besides, a man that is honorably dismissed from a body is not a renegade from it. The author was honorably dismissed from the Congregationalists, with whom he was connected; with the Unitarians he never was connected, but has had frequent experience of their Christian kindness and courtesy. 
The critic concludes thus:-
"His science improved will do no good here; if, however, the author be in a mood to take advice, we take it upon ourselves to recommend that he go without delay to Natal, to assist the bewildered Bishop of that enlightened colony, or else remove to England, and take orders in the established church."
The critic's advice is as inconsiderate and impertinent as his criticism; and his performance, with others of a like character, shows that there is a demand for some gospel work here. What ignorance and indifference about the sacred text and its corruptions! What stupidity in its interpretation! What stubborn and consolidated resistance to new information and new light! What implicit and blind faith! What boundless arrogance, superciliousness and self-conceit! and what enormous injustice in leading religious papers and reviews! Do these things show that there is no good to be done here? They are themselves Mace donian voices crying for help, and hurrying up the reserves of the Almighty for the emancipation of the race. All this noise and commotion over the author's works is a demonstration of the urgency of the world's need of further light here, as well as else where.
There is work to be done in Natal, no doubt, and it is to be hoped that the good Bishop Colenso will not want helpers to carry out any improvements which he is proposing in religious culture. There is work for pure and fearless hearts and strong hands in the Established Church, and some of its sons are moving with no uncertain step in the path of progress; but there is also much work to be done in this country to perfect our institutions, and to complete the reorganization of society, nobly commenced, but only commenced, by our fathers. And just now, more than ever before, here is the great battle-field of the world, where new science and old delusions are measuring their strength together, and determining which is the child of God and destiny. At such a time, above all others, the true-hearted American and Christian will be slow to take any advice that leads him from his native land, and from the most effective endeavors to serve the truth when it is so fiercely assailed on its own hearthstone. The author's battle and the nation's are one, and he trusts that a common and glorious victory awaits both.
The charge of infidelity is repelled by all the author's works; and the evidence under the eye of the critic, at the time of his making this charge, contains the most positive proof to the contrary. The sacred laws of truth are not to be trifled with. There have always been infidels who reject Christianity, but those who accept it and admit all its facts, only rejecting the mistakes and errors that are mixed up with it, are not infidels. The author of Biblical Theories accepts Christianity and the Bible for all they are, be it more or less; and investigates both, with unwearied labor, to ascertain what they are. He may be mistaken in his endeavors, but he is not an infidel, and that the critic knows very well, if he has examined his works. With these few explanations of the facts, the author begs leave to submit this case of book criticism to the attention of truth-loving and God -loving men, and especially to that of fellow-Christians. They, more than others, are interested in understanding it, and judging it correctly. It is of little consequence in itself, but in its relations, it is of vast consequence. It is an index of the character of a prevailing type of Christianity, and evinces great defection from the laws of Christ. Christ disallowed false witness against a brother, the use of idle and evil words and malicious epithets, and all uncharitableness. The spirit of this type of Christianity is the spirit of all evil; it crucified Christ, stoned Stephen, burned John Rogers at the stake, beheaded and burned William Tyndal, drove Jonathan Edwards from Northampton, instigated the great rebellion which is now fiercely struggling to quench the fires of republicanism and of freedom in the United States, and is the irreconcilable foe of all human progress.
Yours, most truly, L. A. SAWYER.
COLORED REFUGEES IN OUR CAMPS.
The following letter is from a very worthy, intelligent woman, who was herself a slave during twenty-five years, and who is now manifesting sympathy with her long-oppressed people by nursing them in the vicinity of our camps. To do this, she not only relinquishes good wages in a family, for many years strongly attached to her, but also liberally imparts 
from her own earnings to the destitute around her. 
L. M. CHILD.
ALEXANDRIA, March 18.
Since I last wrote to you, the condition of the poor refugees has improved. During the winter months, the small pox carried them off by hundreds; but now it has somewhat abated. At present, we have one hundred and forty patients in the hospital. The misery I have witnessed must be seen to be believed. The Quakers of Philadelphia, who sent me here, have done nobly for my people. They have indeed proved themselves a Society of Friends. Had it not been for their timely relief, many more must have died. They 
<c06>
have sent thousands and tens of thousands of dollars to different sections of the country, wherever these poor sufferers came within our lines'.. But notwith standing all that has been done, very many have died from destitution. It is impossible to reach them all. Government has erected here barracks for the accommodations of five hundred. We have fifteen hundred on the list.
Many have found employment, and are supporting themselves and their families. It would do your heart good to talk with some of these people. They are quick, intelligent, and full of the spirit of freedom,. Some of them say to me, "The white men of the North have helped us thus far, and we want to help them. We would like to fight for them, if they would only treat us like men."
The colored people could not do enough for the first regiments that came here. They had entire faith in them as the deliverers of their race. The sight of the U. S. uniform took all fear out of their hearts, and inspired them with hope and confidence. Many of them, freely fed the soldiers at their own tables, and lodged them as comfortably as possible in their humble dwellings. The change is very sad. In return for their kindness and ever-ready service, they often receive insults, and sometimes beatings, and so they have learned to distrust those who wear the uniform of the U. S. You know how warmly I have sympathized with the Northern army; all the more does it grieve me to see so many of them false to the principles of freedom. But I am proud and happy to know that the black man is to strike a blow for liberty. I am rejoiced that Col. Shaw heads the Massachusetts regiment, for I know he has a noble heart.
How pitiful it is that members of any religious <illegible> should come here, and return home to report their observations, without one word of sympathy for God's suffering poor! This is suggested to me by reading the New York Exangelist. These poor refugees undoubtedly have faults, as all human beings would have, under similar circumstances. I agree with that noble man. Gen. Saxton, who says they appear to him to be "extremely human.” As to drunkenness, I have seen but one case. As to stealing, I wish the writer in the New York Exangelist had made himself acquainted with the old slave-pen here, now used for a prison. When I last went there, I found seventy whites and one colored man. The marriage-law has been disregarded, from old habits formed in slavery. and from want of true friends to encourage them in the observance of it now. I wish the writer of that article could have been where I was last night, in our rough, little, poorly-built church.
It was densely crowded; and although some alarm was excited by the rafters giving way overhead, quiet was soon restored, and the people were deeply attentive. Eight couples were married on this occasion. We have a day-school of eighty scholars, and a large number attend our evening school-mostly adults,. A large sewing-circle, composed of young and old, meet every Saturday afternoon. Three colored men teach a school in this city for those who can afford to pay somewhat for instruction. They have a large number of pupils, mostly children of colored citizens; but a few of the “little contrabands “attend their school. We are now collecting together the orphan children, of whom there are a great number, owing to the many deaths that have occurred of late. In justice to the refugee women, I am bound to testify that I have never known them, in any one instance, refuse to shelter an orphan. In many cases, mothers who have five or six children of their own, without enough to feed and cover them, will readily receive these help less little ones into their own poor hovels. 
O, when will the white man learn to know the hearts of my abused and suffering people!
HARRIET JACOBS.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St. October 24. 6m
SCHOOL IN NEWBURGH , N.Y.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Summer Term of her Boarding and 
Day School for Young Ladies, Day School for Young Ladies, 
On Monday, April 20th, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral Science, Rhetoric, &c. 
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS E. F. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages. 
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship. 
MISS A. J. STERLING, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISS PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently 
pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School. 
The School Year is divided into three terms: two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term $60; per year, $175.
REFERENCES.-Rev. T.J. Sawyer, D.D., Clinton, N.Y.; Rev. S. W. Fisher, D. D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.; De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Uties, N.Y.; Rev. A. D. Mayo, Albany, N .Y.; Henry Bigelow, M.D., Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M.D., Boston, Mass.; Prof., H. B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N.J.; Rev. E. H. Chapin, D. D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig D. D., Blooming-Grove, N. Y.
For particulars, please address, 
MISS H. M. PARKHURST,
april3-2m Newburgh, N.Y.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET, 
Where she will attend. to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her. Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her 
customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing 
abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boato


