THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
231 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advances.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be <illegible> (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three <illegible> at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, <illegible> JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO.26. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1795

<C01>
Selections.
TREATMENT OF NEGROES IN RICHMOND.
We have seen the substance of the statement contained in the following article which we copy from the Richmond Times, in the correspondence of one or two Northern papers, but we did not believe that the Federal authorities in Richmond would allow such barbarities to be practised upon any human being. In the account which we have previously seen, it was stated that some white soldiers <illegible> assaulted Scott's wife in a most indecent manner, and that he made no more resistance than was fully justifiable in the case. Even allowing that his crime was what the Times says it was-“insulting some gentlemen in Richmond, and cutting and stabbing two soldiers, United States soldiers, belonging to the Provost Guard,” and that be did it without provocation, it forms no excuse for the inhuman and barbarous punishment which was inflicted upon him. Not only in Richmond but in other places at the South, where the Federal authorities are in power, there is abundance of evidence that the colored people are treated in a most cruel manner. The Government ought to stop this conduct at once, if the men in command are such brutes as their sanction of this conduct indicates they are. They ought at once to be displaced, and men who have human hearts should be put in their places. The account of this disgraceful affair is thus related by the Times:-Boston journal.
“The negro's name was Ned Scott, who had previously insulted two gentlemen, and was pursued by Allen and Clarke, belonging to Col. Krautzer's guard, stationed on the corner of 24th and Main streets. Being overtaken, the fellow drew his knife, and by the vigorous use of it inflicted such wounds on his pursuers as to prevent his capture. About half past 8 o'clock on Tuesday night, however, he was captured by Clarke, who had been constantly on the lookout for him, nearly opposite the military <illegible>, and committed to Libby Prison-where he remained until this morning, when he was taken to Col. Krautzer. There being no doubt as to the identity of the fellow, Col. K. passed sentence that he should be bucked and paddled for an hour by a posse of negroes, and then placarded with ‘I stabbed two of the Provost Guard,' and marched about the streets for a specified time, preceded by a drum and fife playing the ‘Rogue's March,' with a file of soldiers on each side at a charge bayonets, after which he was to be taken back to the Provost Marshal's office, placed in a coffin, from which a piece large enough for his face to show was cut, and after being securely nailed up, to be taken outside of the building and propped up, where, with his face whitened with flour, he should remain a couple of hours before being turned loose, all of which sentence was faithfully performed. We witnessed the execution of the last clause of the sentence, and can truly say that we never saw a more ludicrous or amusing scene. With all the gravity which would accompany the preliminaries for burying a man alive, he was placed in the coffin by a few soldiers, his hands folded across his breast, his face whitened with flour, then the lid pressed over him and nailed down, after which he was interrogated as to his desire for the services of a minister. At this juncture the fellow commenced begging to be spared death; but meeting with prompt refusal, he apparently resigned himself to his fate, and solicited the attendance of the pastor of the Third Baptist Church, to which he said he belonged. The proceedings were carried to the extent of ordering a guard to go for the preacher, (who of course did not go;) where-upon the coffin containing the hero of the occasion was taken into the street, and set up against the building, where he remained for two hours, during which he was surrounded by hundreds of persons, who enjoyed the spectacle hugely.”

JEFF. DAVIS.
It is argued that banishment for such a criminal as he is would be a far greater punishment than hanging or imprisonment for life. The Evening Post takes strong ground against banishment, arguing that Davis would be lionized and feted at every capital in Europe, and that if he has an ambition, it is to reach England or France. The Post goes on to say:
What would Jefferson Davis, who now must be aware that his scheme of a Southern Confederacy is an utter failure, desire better than this? He does not wish to be hanged. He does not wish to be imprisoned for life. He cannot, with all his self-complacent vanity, dare hope again to occupy the honorable position of an American citizen. He only, then, aspires to one ambition, indulges in one hope, and that is to go to Europe. There he will be, to a certain extent, lionized at least for a time. British "neutrality" will protect him, and the Southern Club of Liverpool will invite him to a banquet. He will be announced in the newspapers as the ex-President of the South; and in every large capital of Europe will find small nests of secessionists, who will extend to him at least the semblance of honor.
It is not likely that foreign governments will pay much attention to the reckless and defeated adventurer; nor will the courtesies of his kindred spirits abroad endure “but for a season.” After that, Jefferson Davis will leisurely travel around Europe on the funds which there is every reason to believe he has laid up on the other side of the Atlantic. The fascinations of Paris, Florence, Rome and Naples will be at his command. Perhaps he will journey through the Holy Land, and visit the localities once trod by Judas Iscariot. He will read the papers, smoke, eat, drink and talk. Galleries of art, opera houses, libraries, all the resources of a man of wealth and education, will be open to him. His personal friends will rejoin him, and in quiet and not monotonous enjoyment his insignificant days will still go on.
We do not overlook the poignant regret that he will feel over his baffled schemes. We not deny that ennui and weariness may shadow his luxurious life. We do not doubt that he will long again and again to direct political intrigues, and to be prominently before the eye of the world. But at the same time the existence of these drawbacks, the deprivation of these privileges, will by no means render his life unendurable. His punishment will not be greater than be can bear. ‘The mark of Cain’ will scarcely be an annoyance to him. To an unprincipled creature like Davis, there is in exile none of the pain with which sentimentalists surround it. He will eat, drink and be merry. He will not suffer from want of food and raiment like the prisoners of Andersonville or the Libby. And perhaps in ten or fifteen years, when the excitement caused by the war shall have subsided, he will come back to New York in a first class steamer, and probably be pardoned by a too-forgiving President and people. Is such a career punishment? Does treason authorize a man to enjoy all the luxuries of foreign life? Is the

<c02>
blood of thousands of young soldiers, the desolation brought to so many hearths by the unscrupulous ambition of Jefferson Davis, to be atoned for by sending him to an exile which is really only a leisurely and sauntering tour through Europe? If he be a criminal, as the theory of his desert of some punishment presupposes, let him be tried, convicted and hung as a criminal; but if he be merely a political offender, then let him go altogether. Banishment is an inadequate penalty for such crimes as be is accused of, and an unjust one for political errors."

THE LOSSES OF THE SLAVE STATES FROM THE WAR.
The actual losses of the South, including all the slave States, in substantial wealth, from the late rebellion, will never be known. They are beyond the reach of the most industrious researches. The aggregate debts of three thousand millions of dollars in rebel scrip, incurred by the Jeff. Davis usurpation, afford no approximation to the extortions from and losses of his subjects in their accounts with his Southern Confederacy. We are therefore left mainly to conjecture the substantial losses of the South from the war. The slaveholders of all the slave States, with the abolition of slavery, will have lost the ever-available cash capital in slave property, of about twenty-five hundred millions of dollars; but the country in this item losses only the slaves actually destroyed or disabled by the war, and their losses of labor incident to the revolution from slavery to a free labor system. 
The material losses of the slave States in the products of labor, from the rebellion, doubtless largely exceed, at the present day, a thousand millions of dollars in gold, leaving out of the calculation the terrible destruction and reductions entailed by the war upon the population of the slave States, whites and blacks, men, women and children. Take the following items, estimated, of crops lost and property destroyed:- 
Three average cotton crops lost, which, 
at a peace valuation, would amount 
to $200,000,000 
Lost, in four years, in the products of 
rice, sugar and tobacco, pitch, tar 
and turpentine, 100,000,000 
Property destroyed in ships, steamboats, 
canals, navy yards, arsenals, forts, 
or magazines, lumber, and other 
building materials, railroads, and 
railway buildings, bridges, machine 
shops, rolling stock, &c., 200,000,000 
In the destruction of cities, villages, 
mills, foundaries, factories, farms 
and plantations, including dwellings, 
outhouses, engines, implements, fences, 
horses, mules, cattle, &c., 500,000,000 
And we have a total of $1,000,000,000 
Incredible as these figures may appear, they fail to convey any idea approaching the extended and appalling scenes of destruction, desolation and destitution which prevail throughout the South. That comprehensive word, exhaustion, has solved the problem of the rebellion; and in their terrible exhaustion, the late rebellious States and their people stand before us to-day vanquished, submissive, destitute, and in a state of social disorganization and confusion so broad and general as to be beyond immediate relief. Their fatal institution of slavery, however, which led them into their ruinous revolt, is gone, and with its removal, in gracefully accepting the new order of things, they may amply repair in a few years all the damages and desolation of this destructive war, and start upon a career of prosperity and progress from which, under their old system of. slavery and slave labor, they would have been forever excluded. 

A LETTER FROM JOHN STUART MILL. 
The following letter from the most distinguished and accomplished friend of the United States, Mr. John Stuart Mill, was received a few days since by a gentleman of this city. It was written in the course of private correspondence, and not intended for the public eye; but its spirit is so generous and sympathetic, and its suggestions so wise, that we cannot refrain from laying it before our readers. The illustrious author, we have no doubt, will forgive this breach of confidence when be sees the use we have made of his words in enforcing, as we do elsewhere, an important principle of public duty:
AVIGNON, May 13, 1865.
“DEAR SIR: I had scarcely received your note of April 8, so full of calm joy in the splendid prospect now opening to your country, and through it to the world, when the news came that an atrocious crime had struck down the great citizen who had afforded so noble an example of the qualities befitting the first magistrate of a free people, and who, in the most trying circumstances, had gradually won not only the admiration, but almost the personal affection of allow he love freedom, or appreciate simplicity and uprightness. But the loss is ours, not his. It was impossible to have wished him a better end than to add the crown of martyrdom to his other honors, and to live in the memory of a great nation as those only live who have not only labored for their country, but died for it. And he did live to see the cause triumphant, and the contest virtually over. How different would our feelings now be if this fate had a overtaken him, as it might so easily have done, a month sooner!
In England, horror of the crime and sympathy with your loss seem to be almost universal, even among those who have disgraced their country by wishing success to the slaveholders. I hope the manifestations which were instantaneously made there in almost every quarter may be received in America as some kind of atonement or peace-offering. I have never believed that there was any real danger of a quarrel between the two countries; but it is of immense importance that we should be firm friends; and this is our natural state: for, though there is a portion of the higher and middle classes of Great Britain who so much dread and hate democracy that they cannot wish prosperity and power to a democratic people, I sincerely believe that this feeling is not general, even in our privileged classes. Most of the dislike and suspicion which have existed towards the United States were the effect of pure ignorance; ignorance of your history, and ignorance of your feelings and disposition as a people. It is difficult for you to believe that this ignorance could be as dense as it really was. But the late events have begun to dissipate it; and if your government and people act as I fully believe they will in regard to the important questions which now await them, there will be no fear of their being ever again so grossly misunderstood, at least in the lives of the present generation.
As to the mode of dealing with these great questions, it does not become a foreigner to advise those who know the exigencies of the case so much better than he does. But as so many of my countrymen are volunteering advice to you at this crisis, perhaps I may be forgiven if I offer mine the contrary way. Every one is eagerly inculcating gentleness, and 
<c03>
only gentleness, as if you had shown any signs of a disposition to take a savage revenge. I have always been afraid of one thing only-that you would be too gentle. I should be sorry to see any life taken after the war is over, (except those of the assassins,) or any evil inflicted in mere vengeance; but one thing I hope will be considered absolutely necessary; to break altogether the power of the slaveholding caste. Unless this is done, the abolition of slavery will be merely nominal. If an aristocracy of ex-slaveholders remain masters of the State Legislatures, they will be able effectually to nullify a great part of the result which has been so dearly bought by the blood of the free States. They and their dependents must be effectually outnumbered at the polling places; which can only be effected by the concession of full equality of political rights to negroes, and by a large immigration of settlers from the North; both of them being made independent by the ownership of land. With these things, in addition to the constitutional amendment, (which will enable the Supreme Court to set aside any State legislation tending to bring back slavery in disguise,) the cause of Freedom is safe, and the opening words of the Declaration of Independence will cease to be a reproach to the nation founded by its authors. 
I am, dear sir, yours very truly, 
-N. Y. Eve. Post. J. S. MILL.” 

SPEECH OF HON. RICHARD H. DANA. 
REORGANIZATION OF THE REBEL STATES. 
A large meeting of the citizens of Boston was held in Faneuil Hall, on Wednesday noon, 21st inst., to consider the question of the reorganization of the Rebel States. It was called to order by Amos A. Lawrence, Esq., and was organized by the choice of Professor Theophilus Parsons as President, assisted by forty-nine Vice Presidents and four Secretaries. Letters were read from Governor Andrew, Hon. A. H. Bulloch, Hon. Charles G. Loring, and Hon. A. H. Rice. Speeches were made by the President, Henry Ward Beecher, Senator Pomeroy of Kansas, Dr. Geo. B. Loring, and Hon. Richard H. Dana. Mr. Dana spoke as follows: 
Mr. President: It was hoped by those who have summoned us together this morning, that a voice might go out from Faneail Hall to which the people of the United States could listen as in times past. 
Mr. President and fellow-citizens, the questions pressing upon the people of this country are the most vast and momentous that have ever presented themselves for solution by a free people. We wish to know, I suppose, first, what are our powers. That is the first question-What are our just powers? Second-What ought we to do? Third-How ought we to do it? With your leave, I propose to attempt an answer to these three questions. 
What are our just powers? Well, my friend, that depends upon that answer to one question- Have we been at war, or have we not? In what have we been engaged for the last four years? Has it been a war, or has it been something else and other than war? Now, I take it upon myself to assert, and I challenge contradiction, that we have been in a condition of public and perfect war. It has been no mere suppression, by municipal powers, of an insurrection for the redress of grievances. It has been a perfect public war. The government has a right to exercise, at its discretion, every belligerent power. (Applause.) We are not bound to exercise them; the enemy cannot compel us to do it; but at our discretion we may exercise every belligerent power. Do you doubt it? Does any man doubt it? (Voices-“ No.”) 
I will tell you why you must not doubt it. In the first place, the Supreme Court of the United States has, by a unanimous decision, held that we are in a public war, and that the government can exercise every belligerent power. The court differed as to the time when we entered upon such war, but that we came to it at last was their unanimous decision. The Prize Courts, like the Temple of Janus, are closed in peace, and open only in war. The Prize Courts have been thrown open, and every prize that has been condemned in this country has been condemned upon the principle of a public war. We have condemned the prizes upon the same rules, and no other, than those by which we condemned them in the war with Great Britain in 1812. This has been sustained by the Supreme Court, acted upon by the Executive, and recognized by Congress. The statutes have called it a war, in terms. The soldiers that are enlisted-what are they enlisted for? Why, they are enlisted “for the war,” are they not? How is it at this moment? Is not the Executive holding those States by military occupation? Are we not holding them in the grasp of war? You cannot justify the great acts of our government for the last three years, except upon the principle of the existence of war. You look in vain in the municipal rules of a Constitution to find justification for what we are doing now. You might as well look into the Constitution to find rules for sinking the Alabama in the British Channel-to find rules for taking Richmond. You might as well look there to find rules for lighting General Grant's cigar. (Laughter.) No; we stand upon the ground of war, and we exercise the powers of war. 
Now, my fellow citizens, what are these powers and rights? What is a WAR? War is not an attempt to kill, to destroy; but it is coercion for a purpose. When a nation goes into a war, she does it to secure an end, and the war does not cease till the end is secured. A boxing match, a trial of strength or skill, are over when one party stop. A war is over when its purpose is secured. It is a fatal mistake to hold that this war is over, because the fighting has ceased. (Applause.) This war is not over. We are in the attitude and the status of war to day. There is the solution of the question. Why, suppose a man has attacked your life, my friend, in the highway, at night, armed, and after a death-struggle you get him down-what then? When he says he has done fighting, are you obliged to release him? Can you not hold him until you have got some security against his weapons? (Applause.) Can you not hold him until you have searched him, and taken his weapons from him? Are you obliged to let him up to begin a new fight for your life? That is the principle that governs war between nations. When one nation has conquered another, in a war, the victorious nation does not retreat from the country and give up possession of it because the fighting has ceased. No; it holds the conquered enemy in the grasp of war until it has secured whatever it has a right to require. (Applause.) I put that proposition fearlessly-The conquering party may hold the other in the grasp of war until it has secured whatever it has a right to require. 
But what have we a right to require? We have no right to require our conquered foe to adopt all our notions, our opinions, our systems, however much we may be attached to them, however good we may think them; but we have a right to require whatever the public safety and public faith make necessary. (Applause.) That is the proposition. 

<c04>
Then, we come to this: We have a right to hold the rebels in the grasp of war until we have obtained whatever the public safely and the public faith require. (Applause and cries of “Good.”) Is not that a solid foundation to stand upon? Will it not bear examination? and are we not upon it to-day?
Now, my friends, I take up my next question. We have settled what our just powers are. Need I ask an audience in Faneuil Hall what it is that the public safety and the public faith demand? Is there a man here who doubts? In the progress of this war, we found it necessary to proclaim the emancipation of every slave. (Applause.) On the first day of January, 1863, Abraham Lincoln, of blessed memory, declared the emancipation of every slave. It was a military act, not a civil act. Military acts depend upon military power, and the measure of military power is the length of the military arm. Now, that proclamation of the 1st of January did not emancipate the slaves, but the military arm emancipated them, as it was stretched forth and made bare. (Applause.) District after district, region after region, State after State have been brought within the grasp of the military arm, until at last, to-day, the whole rebel territory lies within and beneath the military arm. (Loud applause.) Therefore, in State after State, region after region, the slaves have been emancipated, until at last, over the whole country, every slave is emancipated. (Renewed applause.) I would undertake to maintain before any impartial neutral tribunal in Christendom the proposition, that we have to-day an adequate military occupation of the whole rebel country, sufficient to effect the emancipation of every slave, by the admitted laws of war. Whatever doubts may have existed as to the manner in which the proclamation operated, there is no doubt left now; because we have all the ground the slaves have stood upon within our military occupation. 
The slaves are emancipated. In form this is true. But the public faith stands pledged to them that they and their posterity forever shall have a complete and perfect freedom. (Applause.) Not merely our safety; no, the public faith is pledged that every man, woman and child of them, and their posterity forever, shall have a complete and perfect freedom. (Applause.) Do you mean to " palter with them in a double sense”? Are you willing that the great republic shall cheat these poor negroes, " keeping the word of promise to the ear, and breaking it to the hope”? Then, how shall we secure to them a complete and perfect freedom? The Constitution of every slave State is cemented to-day in slavery. Their statute books are full of slavery. It is the corner-stone of every rebel State. If you allow them to come back at once, without condition, into the exercise of all their State functions, what guaranty have you for the complete freedom of the men you have emancipated? There must, therefore, not merely be an emancipation of the actual, living slaves, but there must be an abolition of the slave system. (Applause.) Every State must have the abolition of slavery in its Constitution, or else we must have the amendment of the Constitution, ratified by three-fourths of the States. Yes, that little railroad-ridden republic, New Jersey, must be shamed into adopting the amendment to the Constitution. (Applause.) New Jersey, whose vote seventy years ago alone prevented the adoption of Jefferson's great ordinance, making subsequently acquired territories free, and which now stands alone among the free States against this proposition of amendment, must be shamed into its adoption. (Renewed applause.) Louisiana will adopt it before her; Kentucky, perhaps, may adopt it before her. They may come into the kingdom when the children of the kingdom shut themselves out. (Applause.) 
But, my fellow-citizens, is that enough? Is it enough that we have emancipation and abolition upon the statute books? In some states of society, I should say Yes. In ancient times, when the slaves were of the same race with their masters, when the slaves were poets, orators, scholars, ministers of State, merchants and the mothers of kings; when they were emancipated, nature came to their aid, and they reached an equality with their masters. Their children became patricians. But, my friends, this is a slavery of race; it is a slavery which those white people have been taught for thirty years is a divine institution. I ask you, has the Southern heart been fired for thirty years for nothing? Have these doctrines been sown, and no fruit reaped? Have they been taught that the negro is not fit for freedom, have they believed that, and are they converted in a day? Besides all that, they look upon the negro to-day as the cause of their defeat and humiliation. I am afraid there is a feeling of hatred toward the negro at the South to-day which has never existed there before. What are their laws? Why, their laws many of them do not allow a free negro to live in one of their States. When we emancipated the slaves, did we mean they should be banished-is that it? (Voices-“No.”) Is that keeping public faith with them? And yet their laws declare so, and they may declare it again.
That is not all. By their laws a black man cannot testify in court; by their laws he cannot hold land; by their laws he cannot vote. Now, we have got to choose between two results. With these four millions of negroes, either you must have four millions disfranchised, disarmed, untaught, landless, thriftless, non-producing, non-consuming, degraded men, or else you must have four millions of land-holding, industrious, arms-bearing and voting population. (Loud applause.) Choose between these two! Which will you have? It has got to be decided pretty soon which you will have. The corner-stone of those institutions will not be slavery in name, but their institutions will be built upon the mud-sills of an ignorant, degraded and oppressed negro population. Is that public safety? Is it public faith? Are those republican ideas? Some of these negroes have shed their blood for us upon the public faith. Ah! there are negro parents whose children have fallen in battle; there are children who have lost fathers, and wives who have lost husbands, in our cause. Our covenant with the freedman is sealed with blood! It bears the image and superscription of the Republic! Their freedom is a tribute which we must pay, not only to Caesar, but to God! (Applause.) 
We have a right to require, my friends, that the freedmen of the South shall have the right to hold land. (Applause.) Have we not? We have a right to require that they shall be allowed to testify in the State Courts. (Applause.) Have we not? We have a right to demand that they shall bear arms as soldiers in the militia. (Applause.) Have we not? We have a right to demand that there shall be an impartial ballot. (Great applause.) Now, my friends, let us be frank with one another. On what ground are we going to put our demand for the ballot for freedmen? Some persons may say that they will put it upon the ground that every human being has an absolute and unconditional right to vote. There never was any such doctrine! We do not mean, now, to allow about one half of the South to vote. (Applause.) Why not? Why, 

<c05>
the public safety does not admit of it. (Applause,) We put the condition of loyalty on every vote. (Applause.) 
How have we done in this State? Half the people in this State are excluded from the ballot-the better half, we are fond of calling them; no woman votes. We prescribe conditions for the men-whatever conditions society sees fit; conditions of age; conditions of residence; conditions of tax-paying; and lately we have added by a vast popular majority the further high condition, that they shall have intelligence enough to read and write. (Applause.) Of course, there is no such doctrine as that every human being has a right to vote. Society must settle that upon this principle- “The greatest good of the greatest number " must decide it. The greatest good of society must decide it. On what ground, then, do we put it? We put it upon the ground that the public safety, and the public faith, and the rights of those freedmen, require that there shall be no distinction of color. (Applause.) That is the ground upon which it can stand. They are not safe without it in their freedom. Why, to introduce to the voting franchise four millions of slaves is a revolution. If we do not secure that now in the time of revolution, it can never be secured except by a new revolution. (Loud applause.) Do you want, some years hence, to see a new revolution? The poor, oppressed, degraded black man, bearing patiently his oppression until he can endure it no longer, rising with arms for his rights-do you want to see that? (Voices-“No.") Do you want to see them submit forever, and not rise for their rights? (Voices-“No.") No, neither, you say. Well, my friends, who cry " No," if either of these things happen, it is our fault. If they never get their rights, or get them by a new revolution, it will be, in either event, our fault. Do you wish to have that blame rest upon you? (Voices-“ No.”) No? Then, " Now's the day and now's the hour." (Loud applause.) They are in a condition of transition- a condition of revolution; seize the opportunity, and make it thorough! (Renewed and loud applause.)
Fellow-citizens, a word more. This, then, is what we have a right to demand. Now comes my third question-How do you propose to accomplish it? We know our powers, we know what we want to do-how do we propose to do it? First, the right to bear arms, fortunately, does not depend upon the decision of any State. That is a matter which, under the Constitution, depends upon the acts of Congress. Congress makes the militia, and Congress must see to it that the emancipated slaves have the privilege, the dignity and the power of an arms bearing population. But the right to hold lands, the right to testify in courts, the right to vote, by the Constitution, depend, not only in spirit but in letter, upon the State Constitutions. The right to vote in national elections depends on State Constitutions. What are you going to do about it? 
You find the answer in my first proposition. We are in a state of war. We are exercising war powers. We hold each State in the grasp of war until the State does what we have a right to require of her. (Applause.) We have a military occupation. What is the effect of that? I appeal to the most learned in the laws of nations; I appeal to an authority that has spoken to you words of wisdom this morning, (turning to Prof. Parsons,) whether it is not a principle of war that when the conquering party has military occupation of the country, the political relations of its citizens are suspended thereby? That is true; suspended, I do not say destroyed. Let no man say that I do overlook the distinction between a civil or domestic war and a war between recognized nations. My duties and studies and thoughts have kept my attention upon that. We have not been putting down an insurrection of professed citizens. We have fought against an empire established within the limits of this republic-a complete de facto government, perfected in all its parts; and if we had not destroyed it by war, it would have remained and stood a completed government. Nothing but war has destroyed it. 
Well, what did the rebel States do? It happened-it happened-that those people preserved their State lines-did not obliterate them; but they might have done so. It happened that they did not change their Constitution, but they might have done it. They might have resolved themselves into a consolidated republic, or a monarchy. They did as they chose. They took possession of that whole country. Why, from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, we had not even one post-office. We had not one fort; not one arsenal; not a court-house, nor a custom-house, nor a light-house, nor a single magistrate or a spot on which he could stand. They had forts, arsenals, light-houses, custom-houses, courts, the post-offices, magistrates, and were in complete possession. Under such circumstances, if the parent government is not strong enough to hold possession of the country, and a hostile de facie government get possession of it and establish a de facto government, we proportionately lose our claims to allegiance, for the time. Certainly we do-not absolutely, but for the time. 
Now, what follows from all this? from a war fought over the continent and over every ocean-their privateers vexing our commerce at the antipodes; we fighting the battles of the republic in the mouth of the British Channel (applause) and over this whole vast republic, south of the Potomac and the Ohio. 
“Every turf beneath your feet 
Has been a soldier's sepulcher.”
Now if such a war leaves this people just as they were before-if no corresponding rights and powers have accrued to us, then I say, it has been the most vast and bloody and cruel nullity that the world ever saw. It is not so. We have a right now and a duty to execute those powers which belong to the condition of war. The political relations of these people to their State governments are suspended. Military occupation exists and the republic governs them by powers derived from war. You look in vain to the Constitution to point oat what shall be done. It is not unconstitutional; it is something altogether outside of it. All the powers which the President or Congress or both hold, and are exercising, are derived from the condition of war. 
I ask, again, how shall we obtain what we have a right to require? The changes we require are changes of their Constitutions, are they not? The changes must be fundamental. The people are remitted to their original powers. They must meet in conventions and form Constitutions, and those Constitutions must be satisfactory to the Republic. [Loud applause.]
I desire at this point to say a word with reference to President Johnson and his course, to which I ask your special attention. When President Johnson called the people of North Carolina and of one or two other States together, he did not call the blacks as well as the whites to the <illegible>. Now that is a question of process which requires great discretion and great wisdom. The President and his Cabinet know a great deal more about the details, and means, and probable results, than we do. I believe Presi- 
<c06>
dent Johnson has the same end in view that we have here to-day. (Applause.) He has his own mode of reaching it. Some may ask, why didn't he ask the blacks to vote? I know nothing, personally, of his reasons; but I can easily see that two embarrassments might well beset him. They occur to us all at once. The people of those States are to vote for the purpose of making their organic law. President Johnson holds them by military power. Now, is it not a very serious thing, in a Republican government, to dictate from the military power the organic law for a free people? I do not ask what we have a right to do-that is not the question. The question is, what ought we to do? I do not wonder that a man educated in Republican principles hesitates to dictate, as military superior, who shall vote in determining the organic law of a free people. He took the voters as they stood before the war; he put the test of loyalty to them; he went no further. That we may well suppose was one of his reasons. We can easily suppose another. Take the whole black population. Shall I say to you, my friends, to-day, for the first time, that slavery is a beneficent, effective educational system? If I say it, will you believe it? Will you think me sane? Have we not all said, and thought, and fought because we believed, that slavery degraded and brutalized its victims? If a man requires us to say that the four millions of slaves have not been debased and brutalized by slavery, he requires us to unsay all we have said and believed and fought for and prayed for, the last thirty years. Slavery has degraded the negroes. It has kept them ignorant and debased. It has not, thank God, destroyed them. The germ of moral and intellectual life has survived; and we mean to see to it that they are built up into a self-governing, voting, intelligent population. (Applause.) They are not that to-day. They will become so quicker than you think. They do not need half the care nor half the patronage we used to think they did. And the ballot is a part of our educating and elevating process. But if President Johnson, on a question of means and processes, has declined to clothe them, by an exercise of military power, with the right to vote, for these reasons, then, fellow-citizens, President Johnson is entitled to your respectful consideration and to your support. (Applause.) True, he has by military power supplied a test of loyalty to the voters. But that is a very mild and a necessary exercise of military power. No man, I believe, questions the necessity and fitness of that act. But it is a far different thing to speak a whole nation of voters into existence-not for temporary, but for permanent and fundamental objects-by a stroke of his pen, or rather, I should say, by the uplifted sword.
One step further. Suppose the States do not do what we require-what then? I have not heard that question answered yet. Suppose President Johnson's experiment in North Carolina and Mississippi fails, and the white men, determined to keep the black men down, will not give them their rights-what then? Mr. President, I hope we shall never be called upon to answer, practically, that question. It remits us to an ultimate, and, you may say, a fearful proposition. But if we come to it, though I desire to consider myself the humblest of the persons here, I, for one, am prepared with an answer. I believe that if you come to the ultimate right of the thing, the ultimate law of the case, it is this: that this war-no, not the war, the victory in the war-places, not the person, not the life, not the private property of the rebels-they are governed by other considerations and rules-I do not speak of them-but the political systems of the rebel States at the discretion of the Republic. (Great applause.) You say that it is a fearful proposition. So it is; I know it is so. But is not war a fearful fact? If this is a fearful theory, is it not the legitimate fruit of a terrific fact, the war? War, my friends, is an appeal from the force of law to the law of force. I declare it a proposition that does not admit of doubt in wars between nations, that when a conqueror has obtained military possession of his enemy's country, it is in his discretion whether he shall permit the political institutions to go on, and treat with them, or whether he shall obliterate them, and annex the country to his own dominions. That is the law of war between nations. Is it applicable to us? I think it is. (Applause.) I think, if you come to the ultimate right of the thing, we may, it we choose, take the position that their political institutions are at the discretion of the Republic. Why, when a man accepts a challenge to a duel, what does he put at stake? He puts his life at stake, does he not? And is if not childish after the fatal shot is fired to exclaim, " O, death, and widow hood, and orphanage are fearful things!" They were all involved in that accepted challenge. When a nation allows itself to be at war, or when a people make war, they put at stake their national existence. (Applause.) That result seldom follows, because the nation that is getting the worst of the contest makes its peace in time; because the conquering nation does not always desire to incorporate hostile subjects in its dominions; because neutral nations intervene. The conqueror must choose between two courses-to permit the political institutions, the body politic, to go on, and treat with it, or obliterate it. Now, we mean to adhere to the first course. We mean to say, the States shall remain, with new Constitutions, new systems. We do not mean to exercise sovereign civil jurisdiction over them in our Congress. Fellow-citizens, it is not merely out of tenderness to them; it would be the most dangerous possible course for us. Our system is a planetary system; each planet revolving round its orbit, and all round a common sun. This system is held together by a balance of powers centripetal and centrifugal forces. We have established a wise balance of forces. We have established a wise balance of forces. Let not that balance be destroyed. If we should undertake to exercise sovereign civil jurisdiction over those States, it would be as great a peril to our system as it would be a hardship upon them. We must not, we will not undertake it, except as the last resort of the thinking and the good-as the ultimate, final remedy, when all others have failed.
I know, fellow-citizens, it is much more popular to stir up the feelings of a public audience by violent language than it is to repress them; but on this subject we must think wisely. We have never been willing to try the experiment of a consolidated democratic republic. Our system is a system of States, with a central power, and in that is our safety. (Applause.) State rights I maintain; State sovereignty we have destroyed. (Applause.) Therefore, when I say, if we are driven to the last resort, we may embrace that; yet wisdom, humanity, common discretion, require that we should follow the course we are now following. Let the States make their own Constitutions; but the Constitutions must be satisfactory to the Republic (applause); and-ending as I began-by a power which I think is beyond question, the Republic holds them in the grasp of war until they have made such Constitutions (Loud applause.)
In the next column, we give the letter of Governor Andrew and Hon., A. H. Bulloch in full, as read at the meeting.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the Inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES...... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERGERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I my it is a was power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war or invasion or war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the salves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTER FROM GOV. ANDREW.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, BOSTON, June 19, 1865.
MY DEAR SIR: I have received your note of this date, inviting me to speak at the meeting to be held at noon on Wednesday next in Faneuil Hall. That is impossible. 1, Because it is too late to prepare anything appropriate for an occasion so important without neglecting the ordinary duties which command me; and 2, because it is not likely I shall be able even to be present in the city at that time. Nor, while I am making ready to reach the cars, as I am at this moment, can I write more than this brief apology.
It is not my belief that in any one of the seceding States the time has yet arrived when its State Government can be reestablished with safety. Whether the white man only votes or whether the colored man also votes, I regard the movement at the present moment with inexpressible concern. It has taken us four years to conquer the rebels in all of them. I would not run any risk-great or small-of allowing the same class of men to beat us by an appeal to fraud. They appealed to force, and were conquered. Let us hold on to the power we now have to do right, to protect the loyal, to rebuild the State, to reestablish society, to secure the liberty of the people and the safety of the Union. Let it be used with parental kindness and in the temper of conciliation. But-hold on to the power, and, in the fear of God, let it be used. It was bought with the blood of more than a quarter of a million of heroes and patriots who have given up their lives for their country. Let us see to it that by no error of ours such torrents of human blood shall flow again. I think the loyalty of the South needs time for concentration. 'Therefore I think no reconstruction will be successful now, and therefore as a radical believer in the suffrage for all men of competent capacity, irrespective of color or national origin, I the less regret that colored men are not now permitted to vote in the South. I do not believe their voting would prevent the failure which seems most likely to result from these experiments, and we may be glad not to have them involved in the catastrophe. They will vote by and by. Their votes will be wanted just as their arms were wanted. All people will yet see that poor and ignorant as they are, they are on the right side, and that they can be neither cheated nor bullied into its betrayal or desertion. Meanwhile they will be gaining in knowledge and in admitted capacity to exercise the political functions of citizenship. All the North will by and by agree that the theoretical superiority of the white masters which did not prevent them from committing the most monstrous of all the blunders and crimes of history, renders them in the eyes of practical statesmanship inferior material for good citizens to their humble and unlearned freedmen.
I deeply deplore the necessity of raising the general question of suffrage for colored men in the South thus early. I had hoped that the last vestige of heresy on that question might be first eradicated from New England, where it even now retains a foothold. I had hoped that the poor freedmen might have the opportunity of a brief future, unprejudiced by becoming immediately the subject of political controversy. For one, however, I still hope and believe that there need be no strife nor angry debate. We have reached a point where temperate, philosophical and statesmanlike treatment of grave questions has become easy, because it is of controlling and absolute necessity. We are to have an era of calm, wise, and yet brave and hopeful counsels. The people cannot afford other. They must and will resume control of public affairs,-sometimes too much entrusted to accident. And then the prejudices of tradition and the prices of politics will be alike disregarded.
Allow me to add-that in the end, although for the present it may seem otherwise to casual observation, I do not expect to find the deliberate judgment of the President, who is an able statesman and an honest patriot, differing from that of Massachusetts herself. In his reply to my own remarks, introducing to him a large delegation of gentlemen from Massachusetts, the President emphatically declared his purpose to do his utmost to make the country "permanently free." The logic of events is irresistible. Thus far freedom has been constantly gaining, and it has held whatever it has gained. With patient, hopeful and manly courage on our own part, the future is secure.
I am faithfully and respectfully yours,
JOHN A. ANDREW.
LETTER FROM HON. A. H. BULLOCK.
WORCESTER, June 19, 1865.
GENTLEMEN: You will accept my thanks for your favor of the 16th instant, asking me to be present and speak at the meeting in Faneuil Hall to be held on Wednesday. I regret that my engagements absolutely prevent my coming to Boston at that time.
Thinking it high time that such a meeting should be called, I signed with alacrity the public invitation, and I cannot doubt as to what conclusion will become the expressed conviction of the assembly. Provisional and preparatory government of the rebel States until their loyalty shall have been unequivocally demonstrated, and the extension of suffrage to all loyal men without distinction of color, will supply the only rule of safety. If men are to be excluded from suffrage because of their color, then in many of the rebel States a majority of the loyal men are to be disfranchised, and our future will be such as disloyalty may be pleased to give us. For I consider it almost equivalent to certainty, that if those governments are to be committed to the hands, exclusively, of two classes of whites, first to those (small in number) who have been true to this Government during the war, and, second, to those others (much larger in number) who have been true to the rebellion, but who will now avail themselves of the proffered terms of amnesty, the latter class will vote down the former, and the mischiefs of secession will still, and I know not how long, remain to vex and imperil the Union. Therefore, I say, apply the axe to the root, else the shade and perfume and fruit of the poisonous tree will spread and embitter the life-time of another generation, even after we shall sleep.
I have alluded to the question of suffrage as only one of policy and national safety. But national safety always lies in justice. After the terrible sacrifices of this war, we cannot afford to postpone the eternal rights of human nature to the time or manner of expediency; though, even in that limited view, the time has come, and expediency cries for the maintenance of principle. I quote the words of a late English writer, used in the discussion of the question of granting something like an approximation to universal suffrage in Great Britain. He says: "Evil consequences never spring from reforms which are based on a principle of justice, unless when the reforms have been granted too grudgingly or withheld too long!"
Heaven grant that our government may not withhold them too long!
Yours most truly,
ALEX. H. BULLOCK.
LETTER FROM HON. CHARLES G. LORING.
An able, argumentative letter from Hon. Charles G. Loring was read, but we have space only for the concluding paragraphs, which are as follows:
This, therefore, seems to be our position. On the one hand, we cannot leave the black man to the tender mercies of Southern legislation and social influences, by admitting the former Slave States to resume their original State organizations and privileges under the Constitution, because the exclusive right of suffrage being confined to the white man, the black man would be thereby consigned to a condition probably worse than that of his former slavery. And on the other hand, if those States be allowed to resume those organizations and privileges, we cannot constitutionally interfere with their power to regulate the right of suffrage, each within their own border.
The only alternative seems to be to hold those States under military control, giving to them the utmost freedom in trade and social intercourse, and all other rights and privileges enjoyed by the inhabitants of the other States, excepting the right of legislation and the election of members of Congress-until, by the progress of a higher civilization in regard to human freedom, and the fitness of a free population from other States and from abroad, they shall be prepared for restoration to all the rights and privileges of States, consistently with security for the safety and the mental and moral cultivation of all classes of their citizens; or until an amendment of the Constitution shall have been obtained, abolishing the distinction of color as a condition of suffrage.
I have the honor, gentlemen, to be yours faithfully,
CHARLES G. LORING.
<c02>
PUNISHMENT OR NO PUNISHMENT.
The rebels having surrendered their arms, we are to return the compliment by surrendering our principles. Even the New York Times, but a short time since most positive in demanding that Davis should be hung, now says that if it is going to injure our reputation among foreign nations, we had better mitigate the penalty. So we are to blot the crime of treason from our statute books, in deference to the opinions of foreign powers. The day we do this, we shall sink from the pinnacle of our glory to a degradation from which we shall never recover. A government that will not execute its own laws deserves to die. A nation that will lie supine, when the knives of ten thousand assassins are at its throat, deserves to perish. While the arguments for clemency are being poured upon the President's ears, it would seem that the astounding developments which Providence is daily bringing to light were specially intended to guard him against this danger, and to place the offenders beyond the reach of pardon. The evidence taken at Washington, the past week, establishes the fact that we have had a rebel sheet in New York, supported by Jeff. Davis throughout the war, and edited by one of our own congressmen! D. S. Eastman, assistant manager of the Ontario Bank of Montreal, testified that Jacob Thompson delivered to that bank the bills of exchange -drawn by the confederate governments on their agents in Liverpool; that Thompson made a requisition for a draft in favor of Benjamin Wood for $25,000; that, after the draft was made, Thompson requested him to erase the name of Wood, and insert his own, (Eastman's,) with an endorsement directing payment to Hon. Benjamin Wood. The papers were produced in court, and the signature “B. F. Wood," to whom the draft was paid, was proved to be the handwriting of Mr. Wood, editor and proprietor of the New York Daily News. The date of this transaction was August 10, 1864, just at the time when Thompson and company were attempting to fire New York, to spread yellow fever over the country, and in the midst of the great Chicago conspiracy. Of course, we cannot expect that the Hon. Benjamin Wood will explain what he did with this money, but there can be no moral doubt that it was used to serve the purposes of rebellion. The simple fact that a member of Congress received $25,000, in the time of war, from the enemy's government, is sufficient proof of his treason.
The Atlantic Monthly discloses some startling facts in reference to the Chicago conspiracy, which, although they have been for a long time in possession of government, are now for the first time published.
It appears certain that, on several occasions, in the course of last summer, our republic had the narrowest possible escape from a Northern civil war and universal anarchy. The discovery of the enemy's plans was providential,-Col. Sweet, the commandant at Chicago, being the chief instrument in ferreting out their diabolical schemes. He was surprised to find, among the letters written by rebel prisoners in Camp Douglas to their friends, that some very short ones were penned on full sheets of paper, a curious circumstance in a place where stationery must necessarily have been scarce. One fine June morning he tried the experiment of holding some of these letters near the fire, when, lo! they were found covered with writing, descriptive of glorious transactions that were to transpire on the 4th of July. He pursued his inquiries till he discovered the existence in Chicago of a secret literary society, the Illini, and learned that, on the meeting of the democratic convention to be held on the 4th, all was ready for a general release of eight thousand prisoners, to be joined by five thousand Illini, and American Knights and Sons of Liberty all over the country. The democratic convention was afterwards postponed to the 29th of August, obliging the conspirators to postpone their plans also. Meantime, a major in the Confederate service, then in Canada, shocked at the diabolical character of the operations on foot, resolved to expose the whole to the U. S. authorities. At the hazard of his life he communicated the facts, that Sanders, Holbrook and Hicks were then at Toronto, making preparations; that Hines was to be commander of the expedition; that, for months, rebel emissaries had been travelling through the Northwest, and that everything was ready for a simultaneous rising. Our government was thoroughly alarmed at these disclosures-federal reinforcements poured into the camp till it bristled with bayonets, and though the conspirators outnumbered them four to one, they found that an attack would result in a terrible slaughter of prisoners as well as of themselves. On the third day of the convention, it was announced from their headquarters that any movement at that time would be impracticable.
Everything now went back to its original quiet; the extra troops were removed, and the commandant felt so secure that he obtained a furlough to go home and participate in the coming election. His carriage stood in the gateway, but an indefinable presentiment of some coming danger induced him to put off his journey till the morrow. That night one of the government detectives, professedly a secessionist, informed him that Marmaduke and other rebel officers were in the city, prepared for an attack on election day, the 8th of November, it being now the 5th. The detective had been gone but a few hours, when a young man who had been a colonel in the rebel service presented himself to Col. Sweet, and offered to make known to him "the most hellish plot in history."
The substance of his communication was, that "sixty days previously, he had left Richmond with rebel dispatches from the rebel Secretary of War to Jacob Thompson, the rebel agent in Canada. These despatches had relation to a vast plot, designed to wrap the West in flames, sever it from the East, and secure the independence of the South. Months before, the plot had been concocted by Jeff. Davis at Richmond; and in May previous Thompson, supplied with two hundred and fifty thousand dollars sterling exchange, had been sent to Canada to superintend its execution. This money was lodged in a bank in Montreal, and had furnished the funds which fitted out the abortive expedition against Johnson's Island and Camp Douglas. The plot embraced the order of American Knights, which was spread all over the West, and numbered five hundred thousand men, three hundred and fifty thousand of whom were armed. A force of twelve hundred men, Canadian refugees and bushwhackers from southern Illinois and Missouri, was to attack Camp Douglas on Tuesday night, the 8th of November, liberate and arm the prisoners, and sack Chicago. This was to be a signal for a general uprising throughout the West, and for a simultaneous advance by Hood upon Nashville, Buckner upon Louisville, and Price upon St. Louis. Vallandigham was to head the movement in Ohio, Bowles in Indiana, and Walsh in Illinois. The forces were to rendezvous at Dayton and Cincinnati, in Ohio, and Rock Island, Chicago and Springfield, in Illinois; and those gathered at the last-named place, after seizing the arsenal, were to march to aid Price in taking St. Louis. Prominent Union citizens and officers were to be seized and sent South, and the more obnoxious of them were to be assassinated.”
The finale of this grand scheme was the sudden seizure, just before its execution, of about one hundred of the conspirators, including Grenfell, Vincent Marmaduke, Gen. Charles Walsh, of the Sons of Liberty, and Captain Cantrill, the noted guerrilla under Morgan. What has been done with these men? Have any of them been hanged? Is treason a crime? The article from which we have quoted closes by saying: "The great blow was struck, and the great work over. Its head gone, the conspiracy was dead, and it only remained to lay out its lifeless trunk for the burial."
Fearful mistake! The conspiracy is not dead! It is alive, rampant, treacherous, cruel as ever, and will never die so long as the men who planned it live. This country is filled with unsubdued traitors; they stalk through our cities, they fill our cars, they prate about peace and Union, they are feeling around the nation's heart for the purpose dealing yet deadlier blows. The question now to be decided is, whether republicanism has strength and virtue enough to punish criminals and protect society, or whether we shall be cheated out of our free institutions, and in utter weariness and despair yield ourselves up passive victims to any despot or dictator who offers us relief?-American Baptist.
GEORGIA. The journals which reach us from the interior of the State of Georgia make the important announcement that all the negroes who have been "vagabondizing" in and about Macon have been expelled; and the announcement, moreover, is coupled with an intimation that a similar fate is in store for the same class in Atlanta. Expulsion, in this case, it is pretty certain, means that they are driven into the swamps, the woods, and the mountains, to die of starvation and exposure. The old fiendish spirit of slavery dies hard, but die it must.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1865.
FOURTH OF JULY.
Hitherto, the returning anniversary of the Fourth of July-since the Declaration of Independence was given to the world-has been a bitter mockery to the millions held in the galling chains of chattel slavery on our soil, and a satire upon all our professions as a free and Christian people. On Tuesday next, for the first time, it will be celebrated with something like the semblance of consistency, and in the spirit of universal emancipation. Though the fact has not been officially announced, yet the anti-slavery amendment of the Constitution has been carried by the requisite majority of States competent to take action upon it; so that the day may be greeted with the roar of cannon, the ringing of bells, bonfires, and jubilant songs, for the substantial abolition of that accursed slave system which has led to the perpetration of such atrocious crimes, saturated the Southern soil with the blood alike of the traitorous and the loyal, dismembered for a time the Union, and brought down upon the land the righteous judgments of Heaven.
In view of this inexpressibly grand event, and of the total suppression of that formidable rebellion which had for its object the establishment of a slaveholding empire, avowedly based on the natural right of property in man, the approaching anniversary will be everywhere celebrated with a consciousness of rectitude, a transport of delight, a satisfaction of spirit, and an appreciation of the rights of human nature never before felt on that day. May every orator rise to the sublime height of the occasion, and utter such words of counsel and of cheer as shall give a fresh impetus to the cause of freedom throughout the world!
In Boston the demonstrations will be unusually imposing. Among the guests of the city will be Gen. Anderson, of Fort Sumter fame, as well as others of distinguished merit. The oration before the City Authorities will be delivered by Rev. Jacob M. Manning, of the Old South Church; and there can be no doubt as to its quality or interest.
There will be a celebration of the day, as usual, at the beautiful Grove in Framingham, though not under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society as hitherto. Mr. Phillips and other eloquent speakers are expected to be present. We presume there will be a large attendance.

MR. SUMNER’S EULOGY.
The admirable Eulogy on Abraham Lincoln, by Hon. Charles Sumner, delivered before the Municipal Authorities of the City of Boston, June 1, 1865, has been published in a large and handsomely printed pamphlet. Multitudes will desire to preserve it in this form. Mr. Sumner was adequate to the great occasion, and acquitted himself with his accustomed erudition and eloquence. "If the President were alive," he says, "he would protest against any monotony of panegyric. He never exaggerated. He was always cautious in praise, as in censure. In endeavoring to estimate his character, we shall be nearer to him in proportion as we cultivate the same spirit." Mr. Sumner, therefore, aims to avoid fulsome panegyric; yet we think he is not sufficiently discriminating, and awards too much praise to Mr. Lincoln for the frequent references to the Declaration of Independence that may be found in his speeches and writings. Before the rebellion, Mr. Lincoln made no issue with slavery where it existed, and gave a ready support to all the pro-slavery compromises contained in the Constitution; and it was not till the rebellion had been eighteen months in successful operation that, as President of the United States, under the war power and as a military necessity, he liberated the slaves in the Confederate States. For seventy years, on each returning Fourth of July, the Declaration of Independence was read, with due emphasis, North and South; but it was never read in the interest or for the vindication of the slave population. Justice requires that the whole truth should be stated. Mr. Lincoln resolutely opposed the extension of slavery into new territories, but he was content to abide by the old "covenant with death" as long as the South remained true to it.
Speaking of war, Mr. Sumner says, "It is one of the mysteries of Providence, that it is still allowed to vex mankind." It is only the mystery of sowing and reaping-of cause and effect-of every law that operates in the world of mind and of matter. "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?" There can be no peace without the conditions of peace. “This people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone. They lay wait, as he that setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men. They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of the wicked: they judge not the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? "This clears up whatever of "mystery" attaches to the late war.
Mr. Sumner says, "It was his [Mr. Lincoln's] own frank confession that he had not controlled events, but that they had controlled him. At all the great stages of the war, he followed rather than led. The people, under God, were masters." We think this statement is made in too restricted a sense. Mr. Lincoln unquestionably meant to affirm, not that he cautiously followed the people or popular sentiment, but that he reverently recognized the chastising, wonder-working power of God in the marvellous events of the times,-events beyond all human calculation and control,-and endeavored to be rightly instructed and guided by them. He was circumspect, but not cowardly; teachable, but not time-serving. In issuing the Proclamation of Emancipation, he anticipated the declared sentiment of the nation. So, also, in regard to other measures.
We have received a Memorial Address on Abraham Lincoln, delivered at the Hall of the Mechanics' Institute, St. John, N. B., June 1, 1865, at the invitation of the citizens, by Charles M. Ellis, Esq., of Boston. This is printed in a neat pamphlet of 32 pages, and published at the request of his Worship, Mayor Woodward, and others-the Mayor saying of the oration, "it was in such good taste, and took so large and comprehensive a view of the whole subject, that in my mind the publication and circulation of the same would enable many in this city and province to obtain a better knowledge of the late disturbance in the United States than they have at present." It will be a valuable addition to the many that have been delivered on the same affecting theme.
We have also received an excellent "Address on the Assassination of Abraham Lincoln, delivered at Platt Chapel on the morning, and in the Ashton town-hall on the afternoon of Sunday, May 7th, 1865, by S. Alfred Steinthal”-published by Whitfield, Green & Son, London, and by Johnson & Rawson, Manchester, Eng. Mr. Steinthal has long evinced a most friendly interest in the honor and welfare of our country, and in this address does full justice to the character and public services of Mr. Lincoln. "For the South,” he says, " we mourn, that her inhuman system of slavery had so far debased her sons that any of them could be found to work so vile a deed; but for the martyr who has closed a life so pure, so self-denying, so truly Christian,-a life, to quote the words of one of his countrymen, in which the Christian graces, faith, hope, and charity, were personified,-for him we have no need to mourn. He has been called to die a martyr's death, and to wear a martyr's everlasting crown. The war is over; slavery has for ever been struck down; and the blood of Abraham Lincoln has sealed the emancipation of the negro race."
<c04>
THE WENDELL PHILLIPS PUZZLE.
Did Mr. Wendell Phillips speak in favor of repudiating the national debt-or repudiating the rebel debt-or both, or neither? The thing is a hopeless puzzle. The telegraphic report contained one version; the Anti-Slavery Standard gave another; the Boston Courier reaffirmed the original statement; and now the agent of the Associated Press in Boston, aggrieved at some remarks of the Evening Post, sends the following note to his superior, which has been handed to us for publication:
"BOSTON, June 10. The New York Evening Post of Friday says, that ‘Wendell Phillips has fair cruse of complaint against the careless or malicious reporter, who sent over the wires the garbled account of his speech.' The editors are unjust in their remarks, as the report was made more in sorrow than malice; and all those within hearing of Mr. Phillips, who paid attention, knew it was truthful.
W. G. BLANCHARD."
We gladly do justice to Mr. Blanchard by publishing his note. But the question remains: What did Mr. Phillips say?-N. Y. Evening Post.
Mr. Phillips has since answered the interrogation of the Post, under his own signature, by explicitly declaring that, in speaking of repudiation, he referred only to the rebel debt. Yet we deem it due to the reporter to State, that we have inquired of several reliable friends who were present, (as we were not, and therefore have no personal testimony to offer in the case,) as to their recollection of what Mr. Phillips said; and they all concur in stating that they understood him to say that, in case the rebel debt should be added to our own national debt, he should insist on the repudiation of both. There is some misunderstanding or forgetfulness on one side or the other; yet Mr. Phillips is entitled to the benefit of his disclaimer; though why he should have deemed the position, which he says he assumed, as either startling or effective, we really do not understand, for none but traitors or sympathizers with traitors entertain any other feeling or purpose. Nay, even they have not had the audacity to suggest the possibility of such an alternative being presented to the country. In his frequent reference to it, therefore, Mr. Phillips stands quite alone; and we cannot but deprecate, as most unwise and uncalled for, his suggestion that the rebel debt will, in any conceivable contingency, be assumed by the Government. Surely, it is a gratuitous act to put into the heads of our enemies an idea which, in their inanest state, they have never entertained. Should it hereafter be pressed by them, through a debased political affiliation and partnership, we fear the responsibility will rest more largely upon Mr. Phillips than upon any other person. Besides, should the country so stultify itself, be so lost to all sense of shame and moral principle, as to consolidate the rebel debt with its own, how would Mr. Phillips or any other man be able to discriminate in the payment of his taxes? Must not the repudiation be entire, or the whole indebtedness met?
Not for one moment, however, under any circumstances, can we entertain the thought that, at any time near or remote, will any proposition be gravely made to Congress to pay the rebel debt, or any portion of it, however small. The Senator or Representative who shall dare to offer it will take his place in history with Judas, Cataline, and Jefferson Davis; and the party that shall have the profligacy to urge it will raise such a tempest of popular indignation as to be swept away like chaff.
This is upon the supposition, of course, that there is a bona fide rebel debt of enormous dimensions. But is any such debt in existence?  We have in our possession a good many Confederate bank bills-fifties, twenties, tens, fives, &c.-and on them all we find the payment to be due "two years after the ratification of a treaty of peace between the Confederate States and the United States of America.” It was a pledge equally cunning and worthless. The Confederate States are non-entities, and their debt was based upon conditions that have never been and will never be complied with. Why, then, talk of the possibility of its being assumed by the nation?

"THE NATION"
As the Liberator is to terminate its publication at the close of its present volume, we are glad to be able to commend to its friends and patrons the new weekly periodical which is to commence in the city of New York on the 6th of July ensuing, entitled "THE NATION," believing as we do that it will be eminently deserving of the most liberal patronage, not only for its superior literary and scientific merits, but for its elevated moral tone, its high sense of political rectitude, its soundly reformatory spirit, and its thorough advocacy of the rights of the freedmen at the South. The stockholders are not animated by the hope of money-making, but have subscribed to this enterprise in the spirit of public benefactors, and for the purpose of establishing a first class journal in the interest of humanity, progress, the common weal. They have laid a broad and liberal foundation, and are resolved to spare neither pains nor expense in securing for its pages the best talent on both sides of the Atlantic. It will be the handsomest, the cheapest, and the ablest weekly periodical in the land. The friends of freedom and equal rights, of art and science, of literature and politics, universally, should take an interest in its widest circulation, and promptly give to it their countenance and subscription. [For its Prospectus, see advertising column.]
In this connection we append the following from the Detroit Advertiser, to which our attention has been called by a friend:-
“WARRINGTON,” the Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican, in discussing the merits, or rather demerits of the announced contributors to the new enterprise of the Nation newspaper, in characteristically slashing style, says: "Some of the advertised writers for the Nation have no newspaper talent. Garrison, for instance, is one of the dullest of writers." This ad captandum snap judgment may do for marines and greenhorns; old voyagers know better than to believe in any such ignorant or biased dicta. Garrison alone was the life of the Liberator, and when he was absent from his columns, as he was frequently for weeks, none of his lieutenants could take his place, and the editorial page would be stale, flat and unprofitable, and as dry as "the remainder biscuit." He is a sound, vigorous writer of pure English, with vitality sufficient to make up for the prurient imagination of a dozen haphazard paragraphists or jaundiced cynics. The "Bohemian Club," of which "Warrington" is a distinguished chief, who swoop over literature like crows over a cornfield-now Esop, and now McGrawler, but never coming within a thousand miles of Pope or Byron-may be composed of gentlemen of wonderful mutual admiration, but they are exceedingly shabby critics when they set down Wm. L. Garrison as “one of the dullest of writers." It is "high life below stairs,” indeed, when the apostles of anti-slavery presume to "deny their master."
"Warrington" is one of those who mistake flippancy for genius, and smartness for ability. Perhaps, however, if his name had been substituted for our own in the list of contributors to "THE NATION," it would have added immensely to the interest and value of that journal! Who knows? "What private grief he has, alas! we know not."
PHONETIC SHORT HAND. Mr. D. P. LINDSEY will commence a popular class for instruction in Phonetic Short-Hand, at reduced rates, on Monday evening, June 10, at Bryant, Stratton & Co.'s Business College, 16 Summer Street, Boston, where further particulars will be given. This new method of spelling and writing has an important bearing upon the cause of popular education, and is specially deserving the attention of teachers.
It is understood that Henry Winter Davis will deliver the oration at Chicago, on the Fourth of July, and will take strong negro suffrage ground.
The Baptist Association, of New York, and the Eastern Association of Seventh Day Baptists have passed resolutions in favor of negro suffrage.
A meeting was held in Norfolk on Wednesday evening, last week, to organize a party to promote negro suffrage. A few whites and a good many negroes were present. Keep the ball moving! Freedom and equality for all.
<c05>
INTELLIGENCE OF THE COLORED CITIZENS OF THE SOUTH.
At a large meeting of colored citizens, held at Petersburg, Va., May 31. 1865, the following resolutions were offered, discussed and adopted:
Whereas, This rebellion against the Constitutional authority of the United States Government has been waged for the purpose of extending and perpetuating the system of American slavery, and to establish a Southern Confederacy on its basis. And whereas, God has, in his all-wise Providence, overthrown their power, and the leaders of this foul and gigantic rebellion have been taken as prisoners, and some of them have been indicted for treason against the Government of the United States. And whereas, the supremacy of the United States Government has been maintained by the combined forces of the black and white soldiers on many bloody battle-fields; therefore,
Resolved, That we, the colored citizens of Petersburg, Va., and true and loyal citizens of the United States of America, claim; as an unqualified right, the privilege of setting forth respectfully our grievances, and demanding an equality of rights under the law.
Resolved, That we have vindicated our right to the full exercise and enjoyment of these rights, at Milligan's Bend, Port Hudson, Fort Wagner, Olustee, Petersburg, and last, though not least, we had the distinguished honor of being the first regiment to march into that stronghold of rebeldom, the city of Richmond.
Resolved, That New Orleans in 1812, and Red Bank, Valley Forge, and other battles, fought both by land and sea, in the Revolution, by the colored man, present still stronger claims to our right to the ballot-box.
Resolved, That representation and taxation go hand in hand, and it is diametrically opposed to republican institutions to tax us for the support and expense of the Government, and deny us, at the same time, the right of representation.
Resolved, That the fundamental basis upon which this our republican form of government is established, is, that all such governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed.
Resolved, That our color nor former enslavement is no just cause for our proscription nor disfranchisement, as the word white, nor slave, is not found in the Constitution of the United States.
Resolved, That our comparative ignorance is no just reason for our disfranchisement, as we can compare favorably with a large number of our white fellow-citizens, both natives and foreigners, in point of intelligence-many of whom can neither read nor write, and know nothing of the institutions of the country. We, therefore, hold that any discrimination made against us as a class that does not apply to them, is both unjust and wicked.
Resolved, That we cheerfully submit to any provision, however rigid, that will apply with equal force to our white fellow-citizens, notwithstanding the fact that they have had all the facilities and opportunities for moral and intellectual development.
Resolved, That we have an abiding confidence in our present Chief Magistrate, Andrew Johnson, but fear much the influence of so-called Unionists, who have hitherto entertained the most inveterate feelings of hatred against the Government of the United States, but now have taken the oath of allegiance to support the Government, with all their vindictive feelings of hatred against the colored man, as such cannot expect justice at their hands, let reconstruction take place when it may.
Resolved, That our prayers shall be offered up to Almighty God, in behalf of the President and his Cabinet, that their influence and efforts may be used in the future for our political enfranchisement, as they have in the past in securing to us our physical rights.
Resolved, That in the death of our beloved President, Abraham Lincoln, we have lost a Patriot, a Statesman, and Philanthropist, whose loss we sincerely deplore, and that as he, in the natural goodness and generosity of his heart, proclaimed freedom to the slave, we trust in God, that his successor, President Andrew Johnson, may also use his influence in according to us that equally sacred right-the elective franchise.
Resolved, That we scorn and treat with contempt the allegation made against us, that we understand freedom to mean idleness and indolence; but we do understand freedom to mean industry, and the enjoyment of the legitimate fruits thereof; for he that works we believe has a right to eat, and any person or persons who believe otherwise do not rightly represent the colored people of Petersburg.
Resolved, That we have no feeling of resentment towards our former owners, but we are willing to let the past be buried with the past, and in the future treat all persons with kindness and respect who shall treat us likewise.
White & Potter, State Printers, No. 4, Spring Lane, have published in a neat pamphlet the Historic Address of Governor Andrew, on the occasion of dedicating the Monument to Ladd and Whitney, members of the Sixth Regiment, M. V. M., killed at Baltimore, April 19th, 1861, delivered at Lowell, June 17th, 1865. In concluding, the Governor says, "It is another shaft added to the monumental columns of Middlesex. Henceforth shall the inhabitants of Lowell guard for Massachusetts, for patriotism, and for liberty, this sacred trust, as they of Acton, of Lexington, of Concord, protect the votive stones which commemorate the men of April, ’76.”
Lee & Shepard have just published, in a handsome volume of 373 pages, "THE YOUNG LIEUTENANT; or the Adventures of an Army Officer-A Story of the Rebellion-by Oliver Optic, author of ‘Rich and Humble,’ ‘In School and Out,’ ‘The Boat Club,' ‘All Aboard,' &c. This volume is a sequel to ‘The Soldier Boy.' The material for the work, so far as its historical relations are concerned, has been derived from authentic sources; not from books and papers only, but from intelligent and reliable persons who participated in the stirring scenes of which they gave testimony. It is a narrative of personal adventure, rather than a connected historical account of the operations before Richmond; and will greatly interest youthful readers.
THE MODERN AGE. This is an outgrowth of the "Progressive Age," a little paper which has been issued from Hopedale for five or six years past by B. J. Butts and his lady. The present enlarged form of the paper in neat covers cannot fail to render it acceptable to the class of persons from whom patronage is expected.
The Friend of Progress, for June, contains articles on the death and character of President Lincoln, by John Weiss and O. B. Frothingham. It would be difficult to select finer tributes to his memory than both of these. Mrs. Cora L. V. S. Hatch has a poem on the same topic. Alice Cary and Geo. S. Burleigh also contribute poems. Rev. E. C. Towne continues his review of Beecher, and there are other articles of interest in the number.
HARPER'S MONTHLY, for July, is as brilliant as ever. Its illustrations of Prison-Life detail some of the hardships our patriotic soldiers endured while prisoners in the South. Other illustrations are very fine. Buy the work of Williams & Co.
COMPANION POETS FOR THE PEOPLE. Ticknor & Fields have published the second number of their Illustrated Volumes of Poetry, compromising "SONGS FOR ALL SEASONS, by Alfred Tennyson;” with illustrations by Maclise, Creawick, Eytinge, Barry, Fenn, and Perkins. Each volume will contain about one hundred pages, and from ten to twenty illustrations on wood. Price 50 cents. It will prove a popular series.
<c06>
CONVENTION OF FRIENDS OF PROGRESS.
GRANVILLE, (N. Y.) June 19, 1865.
DEAR GARRISON-The Friends of Progress, in this region, closed, last evening, a three-days' Convention in Middle Granville. It was numerously attended. Men and women came together, earnestly intent on a thorough discussion-so far as time would allow-of the subjects which directly relate to the elevation and progress of themselves, their children, and their country. People were here from Vermont, and from regions around Lakes Champlain and George, and from Saratoga Springs, and from around Troy and Albany. It was a gathering of true and earnest spirits, that are delivered from the despotism of authority, and are aiming to be true to God and Humanity in all relations.
The following resolutions will indicate the intellectual and spiritual condition and tendency of those who composed the Convention:-
Resolved, That the authority of the human soul is above all creeds, constitutions and books; and that when these conflict with that, it is our duty to reject their teachings, and obey the voice of God within us, on all subjects, on all occasions, and in all relations.
Whereas, nothing is true or right because the Bible affirms it, and nothing is true or wrong because the Bible condemns it; therefore,
Resolved, That a text from the Bible, because it is from the Bible, can be no evidence that any principle is true or false, nor that any practice is right or wrong; and that in an argument for or against any principle or practice, we will not offer nor accept any text from the Bible, nor from any book, as authority, pro or con, on any subject.
Resolved, That our opposition is not to the Bible, but to false and pernicious views respecting it, entertained and taught by the church and clergy; one of which is, that it is absolute authority, and that whatever is in it is true, because it is in it; and this error we deem it a sacred duty to seek to overthrow, because it is the great enemy of all progress.
Whereas, the use of intoxicating liquors, as a beverage, often dethrones reason, makes men demoniacs, and results in quarrelling, fighting, robbing, prostitution, the starvation of innocent children, and in the horrible abuse and murder of loved ones, and largely augments crimes and criminals of all kinds; therefore,
Resolved, That rumselling is among the deepest and darkest crimes that curse the human race, and deserves the execration and scorn of mankind.
These resolutions were earnestly but calmly discussed. Those relating to the authority of the Bible were adopted by the Convention. On this fatal error rest the monstrous theological dogmas, and the religion of observances, that now bewilder the people of Christendom. This error of the church and clergy, respecting the Bible, has been the foundation of the support given by that book to slavery, war, intemperance, polygamy, to the hanging of witches, and the horrors of the Inquisition.
The following Address was read to the Convention, and adopted, none dissenting:-
THE BALLOT.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN? WHO SHALL USE IT!
To the Citizens of the United States:
In all governments, the supreme power or sovereignty must be lodged in one, in a few, or in the many. In the American Republic it is in the many. That which Blackstone calls "the supreme, irresistible, absolute, uncontrolled authority or sovereignty,” is in the people, from whom the government derives all its powers. The majority of the voters, as that is determined by the ballot, represents the people.
If the Republic ever dies, it will die, not by the bullet, but by an abuse of the ballot. As the ballot is its life, so it may be its death. Not the bullet, but the ballot, by its abuse, is the great source of danger, in all democratic governments.
Two things are, by the present crisis in our nation's history, forced upon public notice in regard to the ballot; i. e. (1.) What does it mean? (2) Who shall use it?
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
It means power in the voter, not only over himself, but also over the life, liberty, and property of each and every man, woman, and child over whom the government holds jurisdiction. It means not only power, but "supreme, irresistible, absolute, uncontrolled" power over the domestic, social, commercial, ecclesiastical, and political relations and institutions of all the people. The voter is the sovereign; the ballot is the symbol of his sovereignty, and the means by which he makes known his sovereign will. The ballot is the governing power; and whatever influence the government exercises over the condition and happiness of the people, is exercised by the voter. All the good or evil done to all or to any portion of the people is done by the voters. They are the principal; the legislative, judicial, and executive branches of the government are but agents, chosen and paid by them to do their work. But the sovereign power is with the voters, and the ballot is the symbol of that power, and the instrument by which they execute their will.
WHO SHALL USE IT?
You, the voters, as the sovereign power, must answer this. The ballot is not a natural, but a conventional right. Whom will you invest with this "uncontrolled" power over your homes, your lives, your persons and property?
1. THOSE WHO SELL THEIR VOTES?
Will you put this symbol of power into the hands of a man, who takes it, and hastens to the political market, saying-“The party that will give me the most whisky, the most money, or fattest office, shall have my vote?" He, in effect, sells for whisky, money or office your homes, your life, your liberty, property and country; for the ballot is there preventative of absolute power over them all. Will you invest such men with such power over all you hold dear?
2. THOSE WHO BUY VOTES?
There are those who enter the market where ballots are sold, saying to one-“How much whisky for your vote?" to another-“How much money for yours?" and to another, "What office for yours?” The political market is full of these sellers and buyers of ballots. Their stock in trade is, your homes, your liberty, your country, your life, and the lives of all that are dear to you. Will you invest these hucksters in your own and your country's destiny with this symbol of "absolute authority" over you?
3. DRUNKARDS?
Stand by the ballot-box on election day. See that babbling drunkard, reeling up to deposit the vote that is to decide the destiny of your wives and children, and of all that you deem most sacred and dear. If they are too drunk to walk up, those are ever at hand who are ready to bring them up. Shall such men be allowed to wield this power over you and yours! You would not trust yourself, family and property, on board of a ship, with a drunken captain, not in a train with a drunken engineer or conductor. Will you trust the destiny of the Republic with its priceless and countless treasures aboard a national ship or train, and place at the helm or engine a poor, helpless sot! It is appalling to see the American Republic, laden with the hopes and aspirations of hundreds of millions rushing to its destiny, under the control of idiotic, staggering drunkards. They have no power to guide themselves. Will you place them at the helm of the ship of State, freighted with your wives and children, your homes, and the life of a nation, that is regarded as the last hope of earth's toiling millions?
4. THOSE WHO AVOW A HIGHER ALLEGIANCE TO A FOREIGN DESPOT?
There are hundreds of thousands in our midst, and their number is rapidly increasing, who profess a higher allegiance to a foreign power than to the government under which they live. The ballot, in their hands, is wielded by that foreign despot. That soul-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
ess bigot has recently issued his decrees to all his subjects in all countries, declaring that ”freedom of conscience and worship"; freedom of the press, of speech, and of assembly is ”delirium," and ”the liberty of Perdition." The doctrines that all power is derived from the people, that the majority shall rule, and that all in authority, in Church and State, receive their appointments and their power from the people, and are subject to their will; these essential principles of free democratic institutions are, branded by that tyrant as madness and crime.
Will your place your own and your country's destiny in the hands of those who say their first allegiance is due to a foreign power and whose votes are controlled by him? If so, then it is true that the destiny of the American Republic is to be decided by a foreign tyrant, who regards this and all governments as owing allegiance to him; and who affirms that all offences against his religion ought to be punished: as felony by the strong arm of the law.
Will you invest that bigoted oppressor with a responsible, power over your own and your country's destiny? You do, when you place the ballot in the hands of his subjects, whom he sends among, you for the purpose of placing you and yours, by an abuse of the ballot, at his disposal, and who cast their votes in the interests of their sovereign beyond the seas.

5. THE NEGRO.
Will you exclude the intelligent, industrious and loyal negro from the ballot, because God made him black, and give it to the ignorant, drunken vagabond, rioter and traitor because he is white? Will you invest drunkenness, bribery, brutality, treason, and every crime with uncontrolled power over yourselves and over all you hold dear, because they are dressed in white, while you withhold it from sobriety, industry, intelligence, honesty, and loyalty, because they are dressed in black? If you will thus insult God and outrage Humanity, you deserve the doom, to which impartial justice will consign you.

6. THE WOMEN.
Will you invest ignorance and vice with this absolute power over your homes, your property, persons, lives and country, because they are embodied in masculine form, and exclude from its exercise intelligence and virtue, because they appear in female form? The intelligence, piety, and love of peace, order and loyalty of this nation are more generally embodied and made manifest in women than in men. Whose life is so bound up in the purity, peace and prosperity of home, of society, and of the republic, as that of your wives and mothers, your daughters and sisters? Yet you exclude all these from the use of the ballot, because they are women, while you give it to drunkards and rioters, (to whom anarchy and murder are pastimes,) because they are men. You act as if you thought your persons, property and country were safer in the hands of masculine drunkenness, bribery, corruption, anarchy, and murder, than in the hands of feminine purity, peace, order and prosperity. You act as if you preferred adversity and ruin by the votes of men, to prosperity and salvation by the votes of women. Would you rather see your country made desolate by ballots in the hands of drunken and vicious men than have it made prosperous and happy by votes in the hands of sober and virtuous women? Would you rather have your wives made widows, your children orphans, and your loved ones killed and maimed in battle, or starved in prison by a civil war brought by an abuse of the ballot by men, degraded by every vice, than to have them all saved and made happy by that power in the hands of women ennobled by every virtue?
Will you deny the ballot to those who are most deeply concerned to preserve and perpetuate the American Republic, with all its divine principles and its invincible power to elevate and save the race of man, simply because they are women? Will you deny it to the only really loyal and liberty-loving people of the South because God made them negroes; while you give it to those who by a four years' civil war have laid the mangled bodies of half a million of year your loved ones in bloody graves, simply because they are white?
With the experiences and facts of the recent civil war originating solely in a crime against the ballot, and in long years of abuse of that symbol of power in the hands of slavemongers and traitors, and their corrupt and ambitious allies; and with the future looming up before you, freighted with a glorious or inglorious destiny to unborn millions, and States and nations yet to be; can you go on in your rashness and madness to refuse the ballot to the most intelligent and law-and-order loving portion of the people, because God made them women, and to the most loyal and liberty-loving because God made them negroes; while you commit your own and your country's future to treason, drunkenness, ignorance, and to moral, social, and political corruption, because they come to the polls in masculine form, draped in white?
Drunkards and drunkard-makers, and those who seek to spread around them domestic, social and political corruption, cannot be loyal to a "republican form of government." They are traitors to democratic institutions, whose only basis is intelligence, purity, integrity, honesty and loyalty to God and Humanity in every relation of life. Those who, by precept and example, exert an influence adverse to domestic, social and political virtue and integrity, are the real sappers and miners of the American Republic, and as such are to be more vigilantly guarded against by the lovers of freedom and free institutions than any other traitors. The Republic has more to fear from the ballot in the hands of such insidious traitors than from the bullet in the hands of millions of its open enemies.
If this Republic ever dies, it will die by the ballot in the hands of those who, for a price, are ready to use it in the interests of avarice, ambition, despotism and partyism. All that is dear to you and yours as men and women; all that is august in the career of States and Nations; and all that is grand and triumphant in the destiny of the Human Race, appeals to you to guard the ballot against abuse. See to it that those only shall use it who will use it for impartial justice, liberty, and equality before God and the law.
A CRIME AGAINST THE BALLOT IS A DEATH-BLOW AIMED AT THE HEART OF THE REPUBLIC. Guard, then, this symbol of Democratic Sovereignty, as you would your lives, your homes and your country. HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The following resolution was adopted:-
Resolved, That this Conventions of friends of freedom and progress do earnestly urge upon all who would save the American Republic from those who would make the ballot the means of its destruction, with all its countless blessings to the human race, to form themselves into a National League, to protest the elective franchise from abuse, and to enlighten the people on the two great questions-What does the ballot mean? Who shall use it? H.C.W

PROTEST OF THE UNITARIAN CHURCH IN CONCORD, N. H.
A majority of the members of this Society having., in accordance with the imperative demand of one of their members—Onslow Stearns—voted, at an informal meeting, held on the 9th instant, to close their house of worship until further notice, and the house having been closed the last two Sundays in accordance with this informal and illegal vote, the church, at a meeting held yesterday, the 18th inst., adopted the following Resolution by a unanimous vote:-
Resolved, That this church feels aggrieved at the action of the Society, at its recent informal meeting, in voting to close the meeting-house against the minister and those who desire to sit under his ministrations; and they hereby express the hope that the Society, at the legal meeting soon to be held, will vote in favor of reopening it.
One hundred and fifty thousand copies of a French biography of Abraham Lincoln have been sold in Paris.
<c02>
EQUAL RIGHTS.
FRIEND GARRISON—I apprehend that the ”partition wall" between Colonizationists and Abolitionists is now broken down. As the black people are free, they are, of course, free to go to other countries, or to remain here, ”wherever it liketh them best"; and it would seem as though the only hope for the colonization and regeneration of Africa lies in the inducements offered to colored men to emigrate there.
I have just read with intense indignation of the treatment of colored persons in Richmond by those in Federal authority. I refer more particularly to the case of Ned Scott. Of what advantage was it to this man that President Lincoln had declared him free? Did ever slaveholding brutality exceed this? I hope the attention of Secretary Stanton will be called to this outrage, and that Col. Krautzer and all others who were active in the matter will be visited with the punishment they deserve. If a negro violates the law, let him be lawfully punished in the same way and to the same extent that any other law-breaker is punished. Gen. Butler ought to be sent to Richmond.
I am glad to notice that the voice of the press is almost unanimous in favor of placing the negro on the same plane as to political, legal and civil rights as the white man. This only will make emancipation a blessing to him. For our own safety it should be done. We need the loyal negro vote to neutralize the rebel vote at the South, and the Roman Catholic vote in the North and West, and also for the physical safety of the white population at the South; for how long will a people, knowing that they are free, and having learned the use of arms, endure the barbarities described in the Richmond Times already referred to, or other barbarities that have recently been reported, such as having their ears, lips and noses cut off? The scenes of St. Domingo will be re-enacted; for be it remembered, that it was only after they feared they were to be balked of their promised freedom that the colored men there rose to visit a just Indignation on their white oppressors. Let petitions be poured in by the cartload from every square mile of the free States, that emancipation may be made complete by requiring an article in the Constitution of every reconstructed State, giving the rights of citizens and suffrage on the same terms to all, without distinction of color. Now is the time to lay the axe to the root of the tree, remembering that there is a tide in the well being and salvation of nations as well as of individuals, which, if unimproved, may never return. Let not the rulers of the present make the mistake that the founders of our government did when they consented to giving slavery a little time to die out. It is the extreme of cruelty and injustice to leave the status of the colored race to the tender mercies of their late masters. It is palpably intended as a concession to the rebels, hoping thereby to conciliate them; but it will not-they will sooner become loyal to the government by pursuing the other course. It is also urged that the laws of suffrage have always been left to the several States to regulate for themselves, and that some of our free States do not allow the negroes to vote, and also have invidious laws based on color. But this argument is of very little force as relates to the question now in hand. The free States have remained loyal, and while so, retain all their rights of State legislation. However mistaken and narrow may be their policy, Congress cannot interfere; but the rebel States have by the act of rebellion forfeited their civil, legal and political rights, and Congress and the Administration have undoubtedly the same authority to declare the conditions on which they shall be restored to the privileges of the Union and the protection to' of the Government, and also the status of the emancipated portion of the people, as they have on account of rebellion to enact laws of confiscation and emancipation; and without this further legislation, emancipation will be but a dead letter-the South will gain fourteen additional Representatives and Presidential Electors, and will in a short time be as dominant in Congress as before the war. N. S.

INCIDENTS BY THE WAY.
PORTSMOUTH, (Ohio,) June 20, 1865.
W. L. GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-Last week I was at Cincinnati, and regretted much being unable to spend more time at the "western Unitarian Convention." From an hour's hearing, and from report of others, I judge it was more broadly generous touching religious sentiments than the New York meeting.
I heard a gentleman speak with great point and earnestness in favor of equal suffrage for white and black, as justice and therefore safety, amidst cordial response.
Came up the river on Saturday 140 miles-a delightful ride; the scenery varied by bluffs crowned with green forests, and verdant plains of exceeding beauty, on either side, and “la belle riviere" winding its way in the midst.
We met seven steamboats filled with Sherman's troops coming home from the war-crowded thick as bees in a swarm, and sending up great shouts as they swept past us. At Cincinnati were 1000 rebel prisoners released from Camp Chase, and boys in gray mixed peacefully, on the wharf, in the crowd.
I had not only the beauty of scenery, but a noble book to read on the boat—" The Ideal Attained," by Mrs. Farnham. It has not merely beauty of style, but loftiness of thought and earnestness of purpose thrilling through each page. Her ideal of the mutual trust and reverence for man and woman in marriage is high indeed.
Stopping at a hotel over Sunday at Ironton, above here, I heard from my window the talk of a group of men sitting beneath the trees along the sidewalk. One young man was using up, with great vigor, a company of negro-haters, and others listened with great satisfaction. He told them negroes were better workers, better fighters, and would be better voters, than many white men he knew in Ohio. This morning I met an intelligent Kentuckian, who said they were in the midst of the agitation on the Constitutional Amendment. A large majority in his region were in favor of sweeping slavery away forever, and alive to its ruinous effect on their State. But he said it was different in other regions, and they had a work before them. He talked against the ”peculiar institution " with a plainness and power, which made Northern Abolitionists seem tame. So moves the tide; yet there are obstacles enough in the way to call for work and watchfulness, constant and vigilant.
At a Kentucky town where our boat stopped, a colored soldier came aboard, a civil and intelligent man. Had he been white, the porter would have carried his trunk; as it was, he carried one end, and as it was placed on the forward deck aloft, the owner, stopping a moment to cast a glance around him, stepped quietly down to the lower deck among the crew. Not good enough to sit near the man he had fought for! I wished he had tried the experiment, for he might not have been molested. But he seemed a capable judge as to that.
A boat, crowded with soldiers, is just stopping for provisions. I look out to see the waving of flags and handkerchiefs, and the great, hearty cheers come rolling up., full of life. A cannon is fired from the shore, and the sharp echoes come rattling back from the high bluffs on the Kentucky side. This is a city of some 10,000 people, and here, as at Ironton, and among the hills back of the river, are great iron mills and furnaces.
I hope soon to go Northward, where the sun blazes less fervently, and get a breath of the pure air of the lakes.
Yours, truly, G. B. STEBBINS.
At the recent commencement at Adrian College, Michigan, the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred upon Hon. Gerrit Smith of Peterboro’, N. Y., and that of Doctor of Divinity upon Rev Hiram Mattison of New York City.
<c03>
LIBERTY OF DISCUSSION.
Some New York journals are quite excited because of the meeting that was held in Faneuil Hall, on the 21st, in behalf of extending suffrage to the colored people of the South. One of them urges the President to arrest all who were present, on the ground that they were stirring up and exciting insurrection; another thinks that the meeting proves that there is as much sectionalism in Boston as there is in Charleston; and yet others talk of ”incendiaries." and "gall," and “fire," and so forth! This is very amusing, and all the more so that most of it comes from journals that were originally conducted in the interest of secession, though they modified their position because of the pressure from without. Imagine an incendiary meeting over which Theophilus Parsons presides, which Richard H. Dana, Jr., addresses, and to which Charles G. Loring writes! All these gentlemen are well known as standing at the head of the moderate-minded men of New England; and many others who took part in the meeting of the 21st were never before accused of radicalism, much less of being friendly to sedition. We have gone over the proceedings of the meeting a second time, and after the most diligent search we can find nothing in what was said or done that is liable even to the mild charge of being indecorous. Of radicalism we find little, of sedition not a word. Not a sentiment was uttered on the occasion that the most orderly of men might not readily subscribe to. It is no where intimated that opposition should be made to the action of government, though the right to discuss the government's action is freely exercised but in decorous terms. There is nothing illegal, nothing coarse, nothing disloyal, in either the speeches made or the resolutions adopted. To discuss all questions of public interest is a right which has belonged to our race from immemorial time. It was exercised in England before this country had an existence. It was exercised here in the colonial times. It was exercised in the Union before the secession; and in no part of America was it more valued, or kept more bright by constant use, than in the city of New York. To suppose that a people thus trained are to remain silent when the highest political questions are to be settled, is to suppose that the secession war has operated to change our entire political! system, and that we are living under a different state of things from that which prevailed down to 1861,-that our old free constiutional polity has been superseded by despotism, under which free speech is a crime. As no such change has been made, and as the American people enjoy precisely the same rights that they enjoyed five years ago, it is the height of absurdity to represent the sayings and doings of the Faneuil Hall meeting as either disloyal or out of the common course of things. As to the charge that they show Boston to be as sectional as Charleston, that wellspring of rebellion, it is a scandalous libel, and proceeds from a base spirit that is ever ready to fawn upon power, whether it be in the hands of slaveholders or of abolitionists.-Boston Traveller.
The following are the Resolutions unanimously adopted at the Faneuil Hall meeting last week:-
Resolved, That we render our devout thanks to God that He has been with us, as He was with our fathers, and that which, if we are true to ourselves and to the principles of Republican Government, must be permanent and beneficent.
Resolved, That the work of re-organizing government and society in the rebel States requires of the Legislative and Executive Departments of the Government the most deliberate exercise of their powers of statesmanship, and that it is far more important that the task shall be performed well than it shall be performed quickly.
Resolved, That in re-organizing the rebel States, the safety of loyal citizens in those States, the stability of our Government, and the claims of justice require that none shall be allowed to vote who are not loyal, and that none should be expelled from voting because of their race or color.
 
Resolved, That from the death of President Lincoln we derive new motives for persevering labor to the end of securing to all the inhabitants of the land the inalienable rights proclaimed by the Declaration of Independence.
Resolved, That the life and character of President Johnson justify full confidence that he will carry out the great work for which President Lincoln laid down his life, establishing the United States of America on the broad and impregnable basis of wisdom and justice.
Resolved, That a committee of nine, consisting of Richard H. Dana, Jr., Esq., Hon. Theophilus Parsons, Hon. Charles G. Loring,. Hon. John G. Whittier, Rev. Jacob M. Manning, Samuel G. Howe, Esq., George L. Stearns, Esq., John M. Forbes, Esq., and Wm. Endicott, Jr. be appointed to prepare an address to the people of the United States, urging the necessity of a re-organization of the revolted States upon just and correct principles.
THE RIGHT OF SUFFRAGE. The following meritorious petitions have been forwarded to President Johnson by the colored citizens of Georgia:-
To His Excellency, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States:
SIR: We, the undersigned, Colored Citizens of the State of Georgia, respectfully represent, that we are loyal, always have been loyal, and always will remain loyal; and, in order to make our loyalty most effective in the service of the Government, we humbly petition to be allowed to exercise the right of suffrage.
To His Excellency, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States:
SIR: We, the undersigned, Colored Citizens of the State of Georgia, are determined to remain, as we have ever been, loyal to the Government of the United States, and will peacefully submit to and cheerfully support all the Laws and Officers which the Government may establish and appoint for the People of our State, trusting that they will ever be impartial and equally just towards all.
Should your Excellency grant the Petition now in circulation among the White People, asking for the appointment of a Military Governor, we humbly and most earnestly pray that our interests, as well as theirs, may be regarded in your selection of the proper person for the important office. We ask not for a Black Man's Governor, nor a White Man's Governor, but for a People's Governor, who shall impartially protect the rights of all, and faithfully sustain the Union.
THE PRESIDENT'S PLAIN TALK. The telegraphic report which we give elsewhere of the interview between President Johnson and the South Carolina delegation, though marred by some evident verbal errors, is decidedly, refreshing. The President said he intended to give his visitors a plain talk, and he was as good as his word. He told them that slavery was gone, and that South Carolina must come up and say so by her statute book, and by ratifying the Constitutional Amendment. If she did not do this, he said there was no hope that her Senators and Representatives 
would be admitted into Congress. All this was certainly enough. It is due to the ”chivalry," however, to say that they received it in a very becoming manner. They were so anxious to get back to civil government in the Union, that they swallowed the President's lecture with the best grace they could, and (most wonderful to relate) they acknowledged that slavery was not an element of political and moral strength, and that, in her notions about State rights, South Carolina had actually erred!! This is almost too good to be true. It is a heavier crop of candor than we should suppose could have been raised from that soil in one season. But time will show.-Boston Journal.
THE LATE ERASTUS WARE.-Mr. Editor: When I heard of the death of this noble man, I was reminded of a conversation which I had with him in 1835. It was at the time when George Thompson was hunted by mobs, and found a home in the house of Mr. Ware. Anonymous letters of a threatening character were sent to Mr. W., in which he was directed to drive Mr. Thompson away. Mr. Ware stated to me that Mr. Thompson was not at all alarmed, and did not desire any carnal weapons to be used if he was attacked, but he did, and he kept his gun loaded; had one loaded for his hired man: he meant to be prepared to defend himself and his friend. Said he-” Brother Thompson, my life is not worth having if I can't defend an honest man." Men who stood up in the trying daysof’35 should not be forgotten. EDWIN THOMPSON.
—Lynn Bulletin.
FOREIGN ITEMS. Mrs. Lincoln sent a reply to the Empress Eugenie's letter of condolence.
It is stated that the Emperor of Austria has agreed to reinstate Maximilian in all his rights in Austria, in the event of his returning from Mexico.
Spain has ceased to extend belligerent rights to the Confederates by a decree dated June 4.
Lord Brougham, in a speech at a banquet to the Prince of Wales at Fishmongers' Hall, earnestly called on the American Government to use their victory in mercy as well as in justice, and not stain the scaffold with the blood of prisoners whom they recently treated as warriors. The advice of his Lordship is quite uncalled for.
Judge Cowley has had an interview with President Johnson, and laid before him the complaints of the friends of colored suffrage in Charleston against Gen. Hatch and Gen. Gwyn, who refused them permission to hold political meetings in Charleston. The interview was very satisfactory, the President having assured the Judge that their grievances should be redressed at once, and the fullest liberty for political discussion should be secured to all.
<c04>
JOHN MITCHELL.
The ex-patriot and ex-rebel John Mitchell., upon whom the sharp sting of criticism seems to have produced an effect, publishes a card in self-defence in the Daily News. Admitting that " so long as a Southern Confederacy existed," . "he was a Confederate, a secessionist, or what some persons choose to term a rebel," he adds:
"I asked leave of nobody to come to this city, and to write in the News., Further, I do not conceive myself to be here, and going at large, by virtue of the ’amnesty' that some papers have mentioned. Neither have I asked any ' ‘pardon;’ and I trust the President will not press a pardon upon me until I shall have been first convicted of something. I should be obliged, with thanks for his politeness, to decline it."
This is a bit of gratuitous impudence, but it is quite of a piece with John Mitchell's previous performances.

SOLDIERS' MONUMENTS AT BULL RUN.
Two monuments in honor of our dead have just been erected on the Bull Run battle-field. For the dedication ceremonies. Rev. John Pierpont wrote a hymn, the closing stanzas of which are as follows:
"Slavery may whet her out-throat's knife,
Or ram down her assassin's ball;
The Martyr may lay down his life,
Seward may bleed and Lincoln fall;
But Freedom's arm is stronger yet,
Lifted in earnest for her sons,.
Than is the traitor's bayonet-
The murderer's knife-the pirate's guns.
And so, upon the bloody spot
Where now this monument is raised,
Shall rebel bones and memories rot;
But patriot names for aye De praised."
THE BASE CONDUCT of the people of Bermuda in doing all in their power to injure this country during the late war, by aiding the rebels in blockade-running and a hundred other ways, is now reaping its just reward. The merchants of St. George's and Hamilton, who invested not only their gains, but their private means, in co-partnership with notorious Liverpool firms, in furnishing the rebels with ammunitions of war, find themselves hopelessly bankrupt by the collapse of the rebellion. Last year pestilential diseases stalked out of their blockade-runners, and swept scores of inhabitants to destruction. Numbers of the young men have degenerated into confirmed sots under the polluting influence of the loose Southerners and adventurers who have received their hospitality. These islanders, in fact, are to-day, says the New York Times, in a condition to excite commiseration rather than resentment.-Boston Transcript.
JEFF. DAVIS AND DR. BLACKBURN. A friend of ours is in possession of an autograph, of which the following is a copy:
"SENATE CHAMBER, 14th March, 1849.
"Secretary of the United States Treasury:
"SIR-The enclosed letter of recommendation, in favor of Dr. Blackburn, is signed by gentlemen well known to me as of the highest respectability and intelligence. Very truly, yours,
JEFF'N DAVIS." 
The ”Dr. Blackburn " was physician to one of the Southern marine hospitals, and is the yellow fever propagating scoundrel.-Dayton Journal.
LETTER FROM GARIBALDI. The Italian hero having named his grandson after Mr. Lincoln, our Minister to Italy, Mr. Marsh wrote to him, and thanked him. Garibaldi replied as follows:
CAPRERA, 27th March, 1865.
DEAR MR. MARSH:- The name of Lincoln, like that of Christ, makes the beginning of a glorious era in the history of humanity, and I am proud to perpetuate in my family the name of the great emancipator. The journals and the men who have opposed the cause of the great Republic are like the ass of the fable that kicked the lion, thinking him dead; but now that they see her rise again in all her majesty, they will change their language. The American question is vital for the liberty of the world, and its approaching solution must rejoice the hearts of honest men.
With affectionate emotion I kiss your lady's hand, and am yours, G. GARIBALDI.
WHAT .GOV. BROWN OF GEORGIA SAYS. It is important to hear all sides from the South at this juncture, so we give the statement of a ”prominent gentleman," vouched for by the Albany Journal, who visited Gov. Brown of Georgia at the Capitol Prison a few days before his release. Says the Journal:
"As our friend took him by the hand, the ruined Governor burst into tears. In reply to a question as to the condition of the State of Georgia and the temper of its people, he said:’ We are utterly broken down and crushed. We are completely at the mercy of our conquerors. Our punishment is terrible; our sufferings are almost greater than we can bear. Nearly all the young men-the educated young men-the sons of the wealthy citizens-have fallen in battle or died of diseases incident to the camp. Most of the middle-aged men have met with a similar fate.
Three-fourths of all the old men have either died broken-hearted, or been driven from their homes. The few that remain are virtually reduced to beggary. The power of the wealthy classes is destroyed. Men who, a few years ago, were millionaires, are now forced to accept charity at the hands of our military commanders. The poor white masses are reduced to starvation; the blacks are suffering all the worst consequences of the violent sundering of the old social relations. In short,' concluded Gov. Brown, "’society is in a condition of anarchy. Could the people of the North know how utter is our ruin, they would pity us in spite of their abhorrence of what they consider our treason against the Government."
A PRESENT FOR GEN. GRANT. A presentation copy of Webster's New Illustrated Dictionary, for Gen. Grant, is now on exhibition at W. H. Piper & Co.'s bookstore, 133 Washington street. The volume is one of the richest and most elegant specimens of book binding ever produced in this country. It was printed and bound at the Riverside Press, Cambridge. The book is bound in full dark green Levantine Turkey morocco, with no ornamenting, except band ruling of the exterior cover, while the inside of the covers is finished in a more elaborate style, exhibiting various ingenious devices of panel work in red, white and blue morocco, the outer border being divided into thirty-six pieces, upon each of which is a bright star of gold, answering to the thirty-six States of the Union. Equidistant from the four covers, on an interior line, are four other emblems in gold-a shield and eagle, the flag and the insignia of the office of Lieutenant General. In the centre of the inside cover is the inscription in gold letters, 

"LIEUTENANT GENERAL ULYSSES S. GRANT."
Above this name, in a diamond figure, is the motto,
"I propose to move immediately on your works."
And in another diamond figure, below the name, that other motto, "I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer."
TERRIBLE SICKNESS AMONG THE COLORED PEOPLE IN WILMINGTON,. N. C.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune, writing from Raleigh, N. C., says that gentlemen, who have just returned from Wilmington, state “that a great mortality prevails among the colored people, and that they were dying so fast that coffins could not be procured to bury them. Typhus fever is the chief scourge. Strenuous efforts are made by the military authorities to prevent the accumulation of the late slave population in the towns, but the eagerness of these people to return to their old homes from the interior, where they were forcibly carried when our armies took the coast, brings large numbers to these central points, from which they wait opportunities to reach their destination. Once back where they were raised, they hope to meet old friends from whom the war has separated them, and to find employment. In some cases, the planters about Charlotte have driven the people away, in violation of military orders, and these must look for new homes. These slaveholders in spirit, who find they can no longer wield the lash and extort labor by compulsion, wish to see these poor people made as miserable as possible. They look upon their misfortunes (some, not all) with a kind of fiendish delight, and exclaim:" See there! the niggers will all die of starvation and neglect, now that we have ceased to protect them."
The same writer complains that the soldiers and military commanders abuse the poor wanderers, and gives an account of how they were robbed and the women violated by white men wearing the United States uniform.
THE VOICE OF RHODE ISLAND. The Legislature of Rhode Island has adopted the following resolution on the subject of reconstruction:
Resolved, That it is the sense of the General Assembly and people of the State, that in the reconstruction of the governments: of the States lately in rebellion against the government and authority of the United States, the usual power and legal authority vested in the Federal Government should be executed to secure equal rights, without respect to color, to all citizens residing in those States, including herein the Tight of the elective franchise.
<c05>
DESTRUCTIVE FIRE IN QUEBEC. There was a destructive fire in Quebec last Thursday. Over a hundred and fifty buildings were burned, rendering five or six hundred families homeless. The fire raged both sides of Champlain street, in which it took, running from east to west, nearly its whole extent, including the adjacent wharves,-, on which were wooden tenements. Champlain street is the only thoroughfare between the overhanging, cliff of Cape Diamond and the river St. Lawrence. The buildings were very dry, the wind blowing, and the flames spread very rapidly. They were stopped at Diamond Harbor, a portion of which was burnt, and the shipping was greatly endangered. The loss of property was very -large. Those thrown out of their homes were for the most part poor people-the tenements on the wharves being occupied by stevedores, laborers, and others. The houses were literally crammed with people, and the wonder is that no lives were lost.
THE DEATH OF ADMIRAL DUPONT. Washington, June 23. The Secretary of the Navy in a General Order announces to the Navy and Marine Corps the death of Admiral Dupont, after an honorable career of fifty years in the service of his country. The order further says: ":” This officer was distinguished for ability and acquirements in his profession, and filled with credit many important positions, both ashore and afloat. He was especially distinguished for his decisive and splendid victory achieved at Port Royal, S. C., on the 7th of November, 1861, for which he received the thanks of Congress."
THE CROPS AT THE WEST. A gentleman who has just been travelling over the Western States reports the wheat crop has very promising. The apple and entire fruit crop has been injured by spring frosts, and will be less than the average. Thousands of acres in the Southern portion of Indiana and Ohio, which the farmers have set apart for corn, still remain as in the first week of June, unplanted, owing to the wet weather. Corn planting has also been much delayed in Illinois by the rains, but on reaching Wisconsin and Minnesota, our traveller was much surprised to find the corn out of the ground, and growing finely.- Boston Traveller.
At a recent meeting of the Grand Council of the Union League Association of Massachusetts, resolutions appropriately noticing the death of President Lincoln were adopted. It was also voted to recommend to the Subordinate Councils of the Union Leagues in this State, that they prepare to circulate among the people for signatures, and forward to the ' Constitution of the United States, at its next session, petitions, respectfully praying that a proposition be submitted to the several States for an Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
, which shall declare and provide that persons of one color or race shall not be excluded from any political rights or privileges possessed by persons of any other color or race. This is the right action at the right time.
A gentleman just from Richmond states that several days since a Provost Marshal near there ordered seven colored men, who had committed some trifling offence, to be suspended by their thumbs, with their arms extended above their heads, until his return from a frolic. He was absent from his post nearly one w hole day, and on his return found four of the men dead. He also says efforts were being made to hush the matter up. Improbable as the story is, it will be investigated by Gen. Howard.
Secretary Seward, in an official dispatch to the Secretary of the Navy, gives the information that the Government of France has removed all restrictions heretofore imposed by it on the naval vessels of the United States in French ports. Secretary Seward also officially announces that the French Government has formerly rescinded its order granting to our Southern rebels belligerent rights.
THE NEGRO QUESTION IN LOUISIANA. The Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Ledger learns from a reliable source in Louisiana, that it is the determination of the citizens of that State to make short work of the negro suffrage question, and to set the seal of the Pelican State at once upon her positive refusal to entertain the project in any shape whatever.
Gen. Saxton, in a letter to Gen. Howard, says that not far from Summerville, S. C., the freed men are terribly oppressed-worse than in a state of slavery; they have been sent to work in chain-gangs, and often shot down without provocation. Bodies of murdered freedmen have been found in the woods, butchered by guerillas, who have banded together, under oath, to kill every able-bodied freedman found off his plantation.
Gen. Howard gives notice, that after this mouth rations will not be gratuitously issued to teachers of refugees or freedmen; or to any other persons’ voluntarily laboring for the benefit of such persons; but regularly appointed teachers, while on duty, will be allowed to buy rations of the in government, just as army officers do. Free transportation will be granted to such teachers on government transports and military railroads.
It is the intention of Maj. Gen. O. O. Howard to visit South Carolina sometime, after the 4th of July, on business connected with the Freedmen's Bureau.
There are between 30,000 and 40,.000 acres of abandoned lands in the State of Virginia, more than half of which has been taken possession of by Gen. Howard in behalf of the Freedmen's Bureau.
NEW YORK, June 27. The Herald's Virginia correspondent says Gen. Terry has issued an order that, slavery having ceased, the municipal laws restraining the personal liberty of colored persons are obsolete, and that the testimony of such persons will be received before the military courts.
Gen. Hartsuff, commanding at Petersburg, has forbidden any more meetings of planters to fix prices for labor of negroes, or to make distinctions prejudicial to their interests. No difference in the rate of compensation for the same labor by- whites and blacks is to be allowed.
Mr. Yeatman, President of the Western Branch of the Sanitary Commission at St. Louis, informs Gen Howard that he has received $7000,
voluntary contributions, from the colored troops in the vicinity of St. Louis, to aid in the erection of a monument to the memory of the late President Lincoln.
The deposits in the Freedmen's Savings Bank at Hilton Head, since last October, have been over $110,000. A portion of the depositors were white soldiers.
MAJOR GENERALS MUSTERED OUT. It is stated that Generals Butler, Banks and Heintzelman, neglecting to send in their resignation on or before the 15th instant, were mustered out of service on Friday last.
There was in St. Louis a majority of nearly 6,000 against the new Constitution, for the State of Missouri. The returns from the State are not all in, but it is expected that the new Constitution will prevail, by a majority of at least 3000.
The news of Jeff. Davis' capture in England brought the Confederate Loan down from 12 to 14, (its last quoted rates), to 7 and 9.
The statue of Horace Mann is to be placed in, front of the State House in Boston, July 4th.
Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson of New York, in an interview with President Johnson on the subject of extending the right of suffrage to the blacks, assured him that in doing so he would be sustained by an overwhelming majority in all the Northern States.
On Monday, May 29th, the London Times says, the last mile of the Atlantic Telegraph cable was completed. The connection of the two countries by it will be attempted in July.
The Richmond Times says the people of the South have graduated in the school of trials, and their diploma is their poverty and desolation.
The Crescent rebel regiment of New Orleans, composed of young men of the best families in the city, went into service originally for three months, 1100 strong. They were forced to remain in the service till the rebellion closed, when only 61 remained.
The Philadelphia Sketch Club has decided to offer a prize of two thousand dollars for the finest work of art, illustrative of the great American rebellion. Contributors must be residents of the United States, and must send in their contributions by the first of December, 1866. Pictures and statuary will be eligible to the prize.
The assassination trials are closing up, counsel for the accused having the floor. That mysterious personage, Payne, turns out to be Lewis Payne Powell, son of a Baptist minister in Florida. He is but twenty years old, and he entered the secession service in 1861 when he was sixteen, and fought in some of the greatest battles of the war. He was made an assassin by Booth, it is asserted.

THE CHICAGO FAIR. The great fair at Chicago closed on Tuesday evening. The total receipts were $271, .445. Other sums to come in will probably in crease the amount to $275,000.
Alick Stephens charges his treason to the account of the N. Y. Tribune. Jeff. Davis, we presume, will charge his'n to the account of the Boston Liberator. But it would scarcely answer to hang Mr. Greeley M and Mr. Garrison.-Traveller.
President Johnson has proclaimed that all Southern ports are open to the purposes of commerce. This is virtually an announcement that the war is over everywhere in America.
<c06>
FOURTH OF JULY!
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION.
A mass meeting of the friends of Freedom will be held at the Grove in Framingham,
On TUESDAY, JULY 4TH, 1865.
It is hoped that all the friends of complete Emancipation and of universal Suffrage, for which we now plead, will endeavor to be present and testify their appreciation of the great national issues impending. The crisis, certainly, is one which calls for the freest expressions of noblest thought and principles.
Among the speakers expected are Rev. Merrill Richardson, Wendell Phillips, Frederick Douglass,. Stephen S. Foster, Charles Lenox Remond,. Abby Kelley Foster, Wm. Wells Brown, Andrew T. Foss, Mrs. F. W. Harper, Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh, and others.
Trains will be run on the Boston and Worcester railroad and branches as follows:-
Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester at 9.40, A. M., stopping at way stations; also from Worcester a: t 9.25-an express train; and Millbury regular train- Milford 7.10, and 9.20; Northboro', 9.40; Marlboro', 7-.24, and 10.08. Fares to the Grove and back from Boston, Worcester and Millbury, $1 for adults, and 50 cents for children. From Grafton, Newton and West Newton, adults 90 cents, children 45 cents. From Milford and branch, 'North boro', Marlboro, Wellesley, Grantville, Cordaville., Southboro' and Westboro', 75 cents for adults, and 40 cents for children. From Natick, Holliston and Ashland, 50 cents for adults, and 30 cents for children. Returning, leave the Grove for Boston, Milford and Worcester, at 5, P. M. For way stations above Framingham, except Westboro', at 5; Northboro' branch, at 5.30.
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove: for those not coming by cars, 15 cents for adults, and 10 cents for children. Those who come by railroad admitted free. No fireworks allowed within the Grove enclosure.
The house at the Grove will be open for refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the Railroad Depot at South Framingham.
FOURTH OF JULY.
The eighth Union Meeting of the friends of Temperance will be held at Island Grove, Abington, on Tuesday, July 4th. Able speakers will be present and address the assembly. The Abington Brass Band will assist on the occasion. It will be-as it always is-a large gathering, and all who desire to spend the day free from rum influences are invited to be present.
EDWIN THOMPSON,.
In behalf State Temperance Alliance.
June 30.
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AXD ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the conditions and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended, in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been, secured, either as regular or occasional contributors;
:HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin,. College, Harchford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E, NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. McCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLE,
HENRY T,. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITS,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THE ODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c.
A more extended list will be published in a few days. Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau st., New York.
June 16.
HIGHLY IMPORTANT 
AND
INTENSELY INTERSTING!
INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Factsm, Fancise and Fellies! A New Explanation. The results of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to W.M. BAILEY POTTER, New York.
June 23. 4w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the liberator.
TO THE REV. JOHN PIERPONT,
ON HIS RIGHTIETH BIRTH-DAY.
While num'rous friends with garlands crown
You, stanch old vet'ran chief,
For merit that for one to own
Almost exceeds belief,
One jewel in your glittering crest
Escaped their dazzled eyes;
If not the brightest and the best,
'Tis one that all should prize.
Like water sparkling in the sun
With lustre from on high,
Or Moses' symbol lifted up,
That none who look'd might die;
Your Temp' rance Odes, like Gilead's balm,
Their healing power display,
And round your head have wreathed a charm
That shines with cloudless ray.
Your years are eighty-mine have been
The less by rising four;
A few more days, perhaps, and then
Our journey will be o'er.
But while cold water, sparkling bright,
Shall make "the oak get high,"
On ev'ry dew-drop's jewell'd light
Your name will meet the eye.
F. M. ADLINGTON, Weymouth.
THE INAUGURAL ODE
AT THE OPENING OF THE CHICAGO SANITARY FAIR.
Mr. Read recited the following lines, written for the occasion, in a very effective mariner. They were received with marked demonstrations of approval.
What great events have chased the season by,
Like gale-blown waves beneath the thundering sky,
From that swift hour when Sheridan struck the foe,
Shattering rebellion at a single blow!
How, like an eagle swooping from his crag,
Great Sherman pounced, and tore the rebel flag!
On wide-spread wings then North ward swept the coast,
While fled before him all the traitorous host;
Till Grant, like Michael on the crystal wall,
Crowded the fiend of treason to his fall;
And when into the lowest deeps he fell,
There chained the demon in his well-earned cell.
Grows there the hemp sufficient for the time,
To avenge a nation for the murderous crime?
Think of the glorious host of martyrs slain-
Not in fierce battle on the fiery plain,
But left to ghastly hunger's tightening clinch,
And slowly murdered daily inch by inch!
In fancy I behold the villanous wretch,
And yet the muse recoils that gives the sketch:
I see before the felon's straining eyes
These haggard martyrs solemnly arise;
The myriads looming from the plains of death,
File their pale line before this new Macbeth;
Like those sad ghosts by Richard's guilty bed,
Their mournful voices freeze his blood with dread;
Orphans and widows pass before his sight,
Until his soul is shivering with affright;
His cry-"I'll see no more!"-is made in vain;
He still must see, and shiver in his chain.
But leave the demon to himself; no worse
A fate could reach him, and no bitterer curse.
Crape for a nation-crape!
Let Freedom all her shrines and temples drape;
The greatest, noblest, wisest, best
Has dropped from his high toil to sudden rest.
He whose large heart from kindness never swerved,
But oft recoiled from vengeance when deserved;
Heaven saved him from the final work to do,
Of meting justice to the traitorous crew.
Behold the assassin flying through the night!
Each bush and tree assail him with affright!
Each breath of air is hissing in his ear!
The cry of "murder!" and pursuers near!
His eye of blood makes all the field ablaze
With fire, to give him to the searcher's gaze.
He dies a thousand deaths, until he falls
'Mid naming hay and crackling beams and stalls;
And with fierce imprecations on his lips,
The spirit passes to its dark eclipse:
Perchance pursued by vengeful shapes of ire,
It still flies on, through endless fields of fire.
Here let the curtain fall
On scenes of woe that startle and appeal;
Ring out with bells, and send it round the world,
Our Union flag is for all time unfurled.
Traitor nor tyrant can resist the tide
Of the great movement sweeping far and wide.
The Freeman's axe is in the forest now,
The Freeman's band is on the Southern plow;
One sweep of the great people's arm abroad,
The savage flies, and harvest crowns the sod;
While by that hand the rattling car conveyed,
Darts like a shuttle through the loom of trade;
Religion's handmaid,-Commerce,-walks abroad,
And wins morelaurels than War's conquering rod.
In her fair hands the olive branch of peace
Waves o'er the world, and bids its discords cease;
Her garments breathe perfume of India's spice;
And soft furs shield her mid the Arctic ice;
Her reindeers fly athwart the frozenland,
Her patient camels print the desert sand,
On Nile and Niger's breast her barges glide,
Her swift canoes the Indian trappers guide,
Her barks o'er Pharaoh's drowned chariots sail,
On Michigan her steam defies the gale,
O'er Europe's world her pennons rise and fall,
Her banners wave on China's ancient wall;
O'er ruined Thebes perchance she sheds a tear,
But smiles to see a greater living here;
Heaves the sad sigh beside decaying Rome,
But starts a second in her new-found home.
Onward forever; o'er our Westernland
Rise the fair marts to her enchanted wand:
Her domes and spires by ocean, lake and stream,
Springlike the marvellous fabric of a dream.
Where roamed of late the forest's dusky king,
On skyward walls the builders' trowels ring;
Where savage children watched the eagle's flight,
The Saxon urchin flies his waving kite;
Where the wild war-dance fanned the midnight fires,
In sacred temples chant the Christian choirs;
And where canoes lay warping on the sand,
A thousand steamers chafe the busy land.
Once more within this marvellous temple here,
Let us exult o'er treason's bloody bier;
Exult like Miriam on the Red Sea coast,
Where waves, uniting, drowned old Pharaoh's host.
The billows of our Union thus have met,
And overwhelmed and drowned the traitor set,
And liberty, like singing Miriam, stands
With flashing symbols in her uplift hands;
Shunting her paeans grandly to the world,
For Freedom won, and Union thus restored.
But why has sprang this wondrous structure here,
As if Aladdin' slamp were waving near?
Come, walk the wards of yonder bedded ball,
And let the tear of love and pity fall;
There stand beside the patriot's conch of pain,
Sooth with kind words, and bid his soul be calm;
And then behold the emaciated form
Of one who braved the battle and the storm;
A Hercules, he fought them long and well,
Till, overpowered, he found a Southern cell.
Behold him now-a skeleton-no more!
A child might bear him up and down the floor;
Ah! bathe his lips with the reviving cap,
And breathe your blessings while you bid him sup.
Behold the frequent crutch, the empty sleeve,
And you pale victim waiting Death's reprieve;
For these, this noble temple swells to-day;
For these, our grateful thousands crowd the may;
For these, brave men, with pity in their glance,
Undo the purse string, thankful for the chance;
While woman, to her glorious nature true,
Does all that angels might be asked to do.
Wave all your, banners, every stripe and star,
To welcome home the veterans of the war;
<c02>
Give to these men-the marvel of the earth-
Place in the heart as well as by the hearth;
The soldier and the sailor’ let them see
our gratitude to those who kept us free;
And show the ancient adage is amiss,
"Republics are ungrateful," in this.
Great heirs of Freedom! keep your steady course;
Still follow truth with undivided force;
Let your free souls speak love to all the earth;
Love God, and next the land that gave you birth.
Though war should slumber, and your swords be sheathed,
True to the trust your glorious sires bequeathed,
With your example, like the flag unfurled,
Columbia will yet liberate the world.
Then, on forever! be your upward aims,
And time must pay what perseverance claims;
Be every word with earnest purpose given,
Each patient thought and act, and leave the rest to Heaven.
The liberator.
SABBATISM IN BOSTON.
A few weeks ago, an order, originating in the Board of Aldermen of the city of Boston, and passed, after ample debate, both by them and the Common Council, was sent to the Mayor, Hon. F. W. lincoln, for his signature. This order requested the Trustees of the Public library to make arrangements for opening its Reading-room (the department of current periodical literature only) between 5 and 10 o'clock, P. M., on Sundays. On the 15th ult., Mr. lincoln published his veto of this order, with his reasons for it, in a letter of some length. I propose now to examine, briefly, the validity and force of those reasons.
After giving great and well-deserved praise to the efficient Board of Trustees, who have had the Public library in their charge ever since its commencement, His Honor asserts that, their opinion having formerly been asked in regard to "the opening of the library on the Sabbath," they unanimously made objection to it; and he adds his opinion that they are "amply qualified by their knowledge and experience" to give judgment in this matter.
His Honor's expression leaves it uncertain whether the measure to which the Trustees objected were the one now proposed, (involving the attendance of only one officer of the library for only five hours on Sunday,) or an opening of all departments of the institution the same as on other days, which would deprive fifteen or twenty persons of the whole Sunday leisure to which they are entitled. The two cases are widely different, and it does not yet appear that the Trustees object to the very moderate measure now proposed. Moreover, they have no "experience" in regard to the matter, since it is yet untried here. Each party conjectures a certain result as likely to arise from this enlargement of the opportunities afforded by the Public library. Perhaps the conjecture of the Aldermen and Common Council, that good, and nothing but good, is likely to arise from it, may be the correct one.
The value of the Mayor's opinion in regard to the Public library is brought seriously into question when he goes on to speak of "the class it serves." Dots not His Honor yet know that that noble institution is intended for all classes?-that its scope in regard to the population of the city is as wide as that of our Common Schools?-and that, like theirs, its benefits are desired and expected to accrue to all the people, of all ranks and classes? Does he not yet know that, if it be true (which I do not believe) that only one or some classes have yet sought the benefits of that great instrument of public education, it is the interest of the city, and the duty of its official functionaries, to ATTRACT men and women to the knowledge and use of it by the most liberal arrangements and provisions possible? His Honor values and cherishes the Public Schools: why should he wish to limit, instead of extending, the use of the Public library?
His Honor alleges as "another reason against the passage of the order" (let it be noted that he has not yet given one sound reason against it) that "there is no call for it from the people. Not a single petition has been presented to the City Council in its favor." To this it would be sufficient to reply, that an order from the Common Council, the popular branch of the city government, is itself an indication of a wish of the people; but the ingenuous simplicity of his Honor, in stating as his next objection one that completely neutralizes this, makes all reply unnecessary. He says that if it be true, as alleged, that the opening of the room would attract many persons who do not attend church, "the accommodations are so limited that, instead of the quiet and repose which are so essential to serious reading, the room would be crowded by a jostling throng, to the discomfort of all present, and hence no practical good to any considerable number of persons would be obtained."
Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First, the people do not wish for the proposed accommodation. Next, if it were once afforded them, they would use it to such an extent that the ample space of the present Reading-room would be quite insufficient! We may leave these two objections to eat each other up; only saying that, if the latter supposition should be realized, and the people of Boston resort to their excellent library in numbers beyond its power of present accommodation, the remedy is obvious; let those accommodations be enlarged. Why else was the ample lot of ground provided, in the rear of the library, sufficient for another building of the same size? Why, but that its founders desired and expected a necessity for the enlargement of its accommodations? The founders of the Public library probably never imagined that a Mayor of Boston would make the dimensions of the first building they erected the limit of the necessities and uses of a growing city. When the Public School buildings arc filled, does his Honor veto the admission of any more children? Does he not rather build more school-houses?
But another feature of this objection deserves to be considered. If the opening of the Reading-room should attract many persons there after the close of public worship on Sunday afternoon, "the room would be crowded by a jostling throng, to the discomfort of all present." Is it thus that His Honor speaks of his constituents? Is it to be assumed that the people of Boston, if their city Government shall provide for them increased accommodation, will begin, for the first time, to misuse it? There is not the slightest reason for such an imputation. His Honor will allow that the persons who go there on Sundays for the purpose of reading will conduct themselves as properly as on other occasions; but perhaps he fears that others will go there not for the purpose of reading, but out of mere curiosity to see the place. This is the very thing that he ought to hope instead of fearing. Not the least of the beneficent uses of the Public library is to show to those who have been accustomed to seek vulgar or vicious amusements, and to find no recreation attractive which is not boisterous, that there is a better way than theirs. Such persons, coming into the Reading-room of the Public library, cannot fail to be at once impressed by its novelty, its beauty, and its quietness. Involuntarily, they will make their comments to each other in whispers; or if by chance one should speak aloud, a civil, quiet intimation from the guardian of the room will cause him to do as others do. After taking a general survey of the spacious room, he proceeds to walk softly around it, probably wondering at the number of people who like to sit still and read. Presently he sees an illustrated newspaper, and takes it up. He finds many things in it worth looking at, and sits down to examine it. In that simple, half-unconscious act, he has illustrated and exemplified the very most, important purpose of the Public library. He has become the subject of its educating influence. He has learned, what he did not know before, that there is something worth sitting down quietly for in that room. In attracting his attention, (the attention of one igno-
<c03>
rant and vulgar young fellow who would otherwise be smoking, with loud talk and laughter, in the street or on the Common,) the very purpose is fulfilled for which the Charivari was ordered from Paris, Punch and the Illustrated News from london, and Harper's Weekly from New York. No matter if he stays there only five minutes the first time. He has got a new idea. He will go again. And every time he goes he will have come nearer to civilization. If the opening of this room for some hours of Sunday afternoon and evening will draw that class of people there more than on other days, this is a strong reason for the new movement, not in any manner or degree against it. If, as His Honor alleges, "the absentees from public worship are not generally of that class who are much interested in their own intellectual and moral improvement," by all means let the Public library try its hand upon them. The chances are that they will improve, and that the community will be benefitted.
In the last sentence, His Honor has chosen to wander somewhat from the subject, and, as he seems a fit subject for missionary labor, and at all events represents A large class who are so, I will follow him. "The absentees from public worship," says be, "are not generally of that class who are much interested in their own intellectual and moral improvement." His Honor seems accustomed to give weight to the consideration of class distinctions, and yet not to be well informed in regard to them. He ought to know that there are three classes of people not accustomed habitually to attend public worship; and since these are said to comprise three-quarters of the population of Boston, it is well worth his while, and that of the "class" lie represents, to discriminate, instead of lumping them.
There is a class of people who stay away from church because, being vicious in character, they prefer to spend their day of leisure in vicious amusements, such as gambling, getting drunk, or attending fighting matches of men or animals. This class, though large enough to do a great deal of harm, is not proportionally A large one. His Honor will not pretend that three-quarters, or even half of the people of Boston are "absentees from public worship" for this reason.
But there is a class positively large, embracing nearly half the inhabitants of Boston, or a hundred thousand persons, who are accustomed to stay away from church because they find nothing there worth going for. They are not strongly attracted in any other direction. They have no special occupation or amusement. They find the day rather tedious, and lounge and dawdle through it in some manner little satisfactory, but escape the worse tedium of going to a place that pretends to be something while it is nothing. Their former experience has found the parson's sermon neither interesting nor instructive, nor even suggestive of good methods of self-improvement; and as to the parson's prayer, which purports to be the voice of the congregation to the Heavenly father, it has never expressed what they wished to say to Him, nor aroused in them a single feeling of devotion. Therefore they ordinarily stay away; and the fact that they do is highly disgraceful, not to themselves; but to the clergy, who 80 ill perform their function.
There is a third class, smaller even than the first, but which should not be left out of sight in a classification of absentees from public worship. These stay away because they find much positive evil in the inculcations of the pulpit-false theology, false morality, and false religion-and also much positive absurdity in what it practises under the name of worship. They find the character of the Heavenly Father, and His relations to man, and His requisitions of man, and the duty of man towards Him, to be grossly misrepresented, often caricatured, in the instructions of the preacher. And they stay away, partly from a feeling of the duty of open protest against such calumnious representations of a Being whom they love and reverence, partly from disgust at the indulgence shown by the pulpit towards popular vices, and partly because they know a positively good use to make of their time. The absence of this class (in spite of His Honor's notion to the contrary) comes precisely from the fact that they are interested in the intellectual and moral improvement of themselves and the community. They stay away because they find something better to do; something interesting, or useful, or both. And many persons would spend the day in a manner advantageous to body, mind and soul, but for the notion, sedulously spread abroad in the community by a class who make their living out of it, that church going is the only proper employment for Sunday, and that those who decline joining in it are thereby opposing God's will, and transgressing his command. But for the popular acceptance of this notion, very many would use Sunday who now waste it. All things considered, the "consequences to the cause of religion and good morals from the precedent" of opening the Public library on some part of Sunday would probably be salutary far rather than injurious, substituting improvement of time for mere inaction in the case of many persons let us try the experiment.
We now come to the centre and substance of the Mayor's case, the consideration, indeed, without which he would have given no veto and said no word on the subject. It is contained in a single sentence, but in this His Honor has managed to display a great deal of ignorance. The sentence is as follows:-
"While ignoring many of the strict formalities and rigid discipline of the Jewish Sabbath, yet, as a Christian community, we are bound to the extent of our power to conform to the proprieties, at least, of the Christian Sabbath."
Passing by, without comment, the peculiar syntax of the above sentence, I will proceed to mention three errors, or blunders, which His Honor has condensed into it.
It is implied in the Mayor's sentence, above quoted, and His Honor, no doubt, really believes, (having been cheated into that belief by his attendance at church on Sundays,) that the "Christian community" of Boston, while ignoring part of that Jewish Sabbath which the Old Testament required, observe part of it. He is utterly in error. Neither he, nor the church to which he belongs, nor any Christian church in Boston, ever observed any part of the Fourth Commandment Sabbath. Nobody observes it in this country except the Jews, and the obscure and numerically insignificant sect who call themselves "Seventh-Day Baptists."
The Fourth Commandment Sabbath includes no "strict formalities," and no "rigid discipline." It requires only this one thing, abstinence from bodily labor and travel on Saturday, the seventh day of the week, and it requires this of nobody but Jews. Whoever practises such abstinence on that day keeps the Fourth Commandment, the whole of it, in the precise manner that Moses enjoined. Just this, and nothing else, constitutes observance of the Old Testament Sabbath; and no amount of observance of any other day, either in that manner or by worship, is a keeping of that Old Testament command. Going to a Protestant or Catholic church on Sunday is no more observance of the Hebrew Fourth Commandment than going to the Public library would be.
But we are "bound" (the Mayor thinks) to conform to "the Christian Sabbath." His Honor means, no doubt, that we are thus bound by the requisitions of the Christian Scriptures, the New Testament; for he would not think of imposing the special rules of his particular church upon people not members of it; but he seeme utterly ignorant of the fact that, apart from the rules of particular sects, there is no such thing as a Christian Sabbath.
If the word Christian means anything, it means originally belonging to the system taught by Jesus Christ. The Pope, appending a bull, or a new dogma, or an encyclicalletter to that system, does not thereby make the thing appended Christian, though be Impudently claims to do so. A sect, or a group of sects, (say the group self-styled "Evangelical,") by tacking their peculiar notions to the tail of that system do not make them Christian, though they impudently claim to do
<c04>
so. But that system, whether judged from the four biographical sketches of Jesus contained in the New Testament, or from the entire contents of that book, contains not one syllable of injunction or recommendation of any Sabbatical observance whatever. It recognizes even the existence of no Sabbath but the Jewish one, and repeatedly and emphatically declares that the followers of Christ, whether originally Jews or Gentiles, are freed from that observance. The very use, therefore, of the expression "Christian Sabbath" is an error and a blunder. You might as well say Christian circumcision. The latter is no more a misuse of language than the former. The fact is that the Sabbath now inculcated by Orthodox Propagandists (and favored in moderation by a certain proportion of Unitarians) was manufactured in 1595, by the English Puritans; (see Heylin's History of the Sabbath, Part II, pp. 249-252); was solemnly reiterated by the General Assembly of Divines at Westminster in 1644; and, through their pernicious Catechism, came by regular descent through our Puritan fathers to the group of sects which now call themselves Orthodox or Evangelical. The labors of these people, from the beginning to the present time, in regard to Sunday, have been to manufacture a new duty, for sectarian purposes, and force it upon the community as a Christian duty.
There are thousands of men and women in this city with education enough to enjoy good literature, and sense enough to prize it, who have neither money to buy, nor time on working days to read such publications as the Reading-room of the Public library contains. I say that to shut these works up and keep them useless all day Sunday, thus preventing the large class of citizens in question from ever seeing them, is not one of "those wholesome restraints which give dignity and virtue to a community." His Honor fears that any change from the present arrangement "may prove injurious." I affirm that the present restriction is injurious, and that good results, and only good ones, may reasonably be expected from the change asked for.
His Honor makes one remark with which I most heartily agree, namely-"The persons employed in the Public library, many of them females, should have the same privilege of one day's rest in seven as those in other similar departments of the public service." Certainly they should; just as, in those departments of the public service in which the public good is already admitted to require a certain amount of Sunday labor-the distribution of milk to babes, of letters to relatives and friends, and of gas-light to the whole population of the city-the employers ought to furnish an equivalent of time, or such other compensation as may be preferred by the laborer. This is a just demand; and His Honor may be assured that -whether the extra work required shall involve but five hours of one person's time, as in the present case, or whether longer attendance on the part of several persons shall be required by subsequent arrangements -the Trustees of the Public library of Boston will render justice and a fair compensation to the persons they employ; and there is no danger of that service failing for want of persons willing to render it.
These things being so, I trust that His Honor will take the matter into further consideration, and either give reasons for his veto or withdraw it. If he shall do neither, I hope it is within the power and will of the Board of Aldermen and the Common Council to pass an order so highly conducive to the public welfare, and have it carried into effect, even if His Honor's signature shall still be withheld.-C. K. W.
A PARALLEL.
The death of John Brownlaid the foundation-stone of our Temple of liberty: the death of Abraham lincoln was the laying of its topmost stone of unity. Between these two memorable martyrs there are points of resemblance. They were both unworldly, unselfish men. They had both a grand, heroic homeliness and simplicity, and a rare union of bravery with womanly tenderness of nature. Both were incorruptibly honest and sincere. Both sprung from a humble walk of life, and were hardy, laboring youth. They each had a Puritan strictness of morality. One, by diligence, virtue, hard study, and perseverance, rose quietly but surely to the highest honors; first of the State, then of the nation. The other went to the far West, there to work his more rough and rugged way. But the holy thing-the germ of the liberty yet to be -was in both their hearts. Hear Abraham lincoln at the rostrum-in the House of Representatives! The great question, the liberty of the slave, shows itself, and begins its divine development within him. The Western farmer, John Brown-stung by the murderous atrocities of the Slave Power, that wet its fangs in the blood of Brown's children-buckles on his arras, and rises above the Union's unjust law to the majesty of God's over-riding, absolute will, that tyranny shall die.
After leaving Kansas, (through the great behest within him,) he went to Virginia, and, raising an altar to freedom, stood ready, if his grand plan for the slave's redemption failed, to offer himself as a whole burnt-offering in their cause. The iron of the slave's chain had entered, through the magic of sympathy, into his soul. The steel of his true sword must find its way to the heart of slavery. He lifted up, in the name of Almighty God, his single sword against twenty millions of people, who said the negro should be a slave; and though the caitiff, Wise, wrenches that sword from his hand, that sword cut the Gordian knot of slavery! that sword defeated the will of the twenty millions of slaveholders! Slavery broke his neck; but as he fell, slavery fell with him. Oh, what a tempest was there! The gallant ship went down; but, in its going down, it so stirred the waters of the great deep that their refluent waves bore on the Western lawyer to the Capital. The foundation of the true temple of liberty was laid, John Brown being the chief corner-stone.
Turn, now, and see the other elect one of the new dispensation, as yet unconscious of his greater destiny, and deeming himself only the President of the Republic. John Brown defied the unjust law of the land, in the noble frenzy of his devotion to negroliberty. Abrahamlincoln, though deep within his heart lay the latent, immutable purpose to free the slave, yet to be true to his oath of office, that he would keep inviolable the laws of the Republic, was compelled to violate the pure justice in his own soul, and avouched that he would enforce that infamouslaw which his own soul and his own God abhorred. His oath of office held him to this-to hold the salvation of the Union paramount to the over-reaching cry of humanity; and when the higher lawgiver said, "Freedom to the slave first of all, before all the popular legend," the burthen of the people's outcry seemed to drown that voice for a time. But, ever and anon, it gained strength in his soul, and ho could see God about to dash the Union idol in pieces, unless His great will should be done. And so it came to pass that, in the midst of God's vengeful blaze, the burning lightning and rolling thunders of war, gathering in his fiery path, long after the war-sword of John Brown was sheathed forever, Abraham lincoln unfurled his Proclamation of Emancipation-a banner of effulgentlight; unfurled it in defiance of all the enemies of God and man-in defiance of the cowardly assassin's threat; for the great, calm soul of Abraham lincoln, the Father of the faithful in the late struggles, thus thought-"It may be my death-warrant, but it will give life to the nation. My hour has come. The seed of liberty, planted in my soul in the Western forests, has germinated to this culmination, and stands now, wide and outspreading, a tree of life to the nations." And so he stood, with that standard forever before him, and its words of light were read by all the world; and the arms of the Republic were invincible, and the politically dead sprang to life, and stood in armed battalions before those who had been their tyrants; and the veins of the nation ranlightning, for her youth was rejuvenated. Then Satanled the minions of slavery, from their rage at this, down
<c05>
through the mysteries of that fearful new-birth by which men are born into his kingdom, and the divinity of their humanity is taken from them, and they become Satan's own, and all forma of cruelty and hate take possession of them: and they crawled, like, wily snakes, to their deep revenges. Tortures and death, by dire starvation, to thousands of our brave soldiers in their power-low cunning, ferocious malignity, hell deeplying-all were at work. Assassination, the basest form of crime, no longer looked mean or dastardly, to them as when they were human. They plotted as fiends plot. The pure, sacred form of Abraham lincoln, standing in serene majesty at the head of the mightiest nation on earth, with the Proclamation ever flashing glories before him, maddened them to torment; and in their dens of darkness they hatched and matured the plot, where the frenzied audacity of drunken vice was called to aid the cowardly treachery of the assassin's blow. In a moment, when victory after victory had brought down the rebel armies, and, like the voice of many waters, came up the nation's hosannahs, and the good, Christ-like heart of Abraham lincoln melted in mercy over the fallen foe, then the Old Serpent, called the Devil and Satan, incarnated in these men, aimed the blow which struck at our life' slife. God of our souls! that assassin's gun was aimed at thy throne, through Abraham lincoln! Avenge, avenge his death, or Justice dies!
I see the corpse of John Brown, blackened, choked, mutilated, at the foot of the Virginia scaffold; and I see Satan behind these armed tyrants, dreaming that he has secured slavery. But, hearken! I hear the wings of the descending angel that is to roll away the stone! "His soul is marching on"! The slave is liberated! That gallows is the gate through which he passes out from his dungeon to liberty, amid thunders and lightings and a tempest! The war rolls on, four years of stormy strife-then Victory comes with blood-stained robes but exultant step, and behind her Pence, with dove-like eyes and blessed olive-branch. How beautiful looks the nation, illuminated through all her cities! How jubilant her voice as her glorious national anthem is repeated in the echoes of her glad mountains and lovely valleys! But, lo! The light is suddenly turned to darkness! The sun goes down at mid-day-the darkness is intense-the sound of music changes to a wild and mournful wail!
I see another form, pale and ghastly, borne to his death-bed. The assassin's shot has taken deadly effect in the noble brain which conceived the sublime edict of Emancipation. That hand, red with myriads of foul murders, did the deed-the hand of slavery! the snakey sorceress, the mother of Southern rattlesnakes and Northern copperheads, whose eggs break out into adders like Booth, or coil about the unsuspecting masses, and circling steal their life away. 
My heart grows sick over that long, imperial, solemn funeral procession, followed by the wailing heart of the nation. But there is a prophecy in that mighty mourning. God, out of heaven, thunders again, through the voice of the people, "All men shall be free and equal!" A glorious revival thrills the late prostrateland. Hark! they vow to one another, that in the land in which lincoln suffered for proclaiming emancipation, the black man shall have the privilege of citizenship, with land and education to make his franchise effective. Is not the topmost-stone in our Temple of liberty laid? Does not Freedom stand amid the orient flame of this new morning in her holy of holies, before her divine altar, writing in her calendar the golden name of her murdered saint, Abraham lincoln?
By the august manes of Brown and lincoln-one the first, the other the last martyr of our great revolution-one the martyr of a freedom bylaw and through legislation, the other the martyr of an inspiration above and beyond al law-let us bind ourselves by grand vows in the presence of the Highest, not to rest till slavery has sunk in the waters to rise no more!
THE SHERMAN-STANTON CONTROVERSY.
A QUESTION OF NECESSITY.
It is certainly somewhat remarkable that, so far as the main subject of controversy is concerned, neither you nor any of your correspondents sustain General Sherman, nor condemn the Secretary of War. It is agreed, on all bands, that the convention between General Sherman and General Johnston was not fit to be made, and that the Secretary of War, or rather the President, did right in setting it aside. The whole controversy is as to the manner of doing it.
It is claimed that the Secretary ought not to have published the order setting aside the convention or the reasons for doing so.
General Sherman is justified in publishing the convention, because it was necessary for the army to conform its action to the stipulations contained in that instrument.
Now, did it ever occur to you, or your correspondents, that the same necessity existed for the order revoking it, that the army might be again put in motion, and press, the enemy to final subjugation? If it be said that the publication of the order ought to have been left to General Sherman, the answer is that the suspension of hostilities was not confined to the army with him, and under his immediate command, but covered almost the entire field of active military operations east of the Mississippi. It was a matter of imperative necessity, therefore, that the order of revocation should reach the entire field of military operations at the earliest possible moment. General Sherman was in an isolated position in the interior of North Carolina, from which intelligence could not be speedily disseminated to all parts of the army under his command. The War Department had the most direct and immediate means of sending intelligence to every military post in the country. It is, therefore, not only proper, but absolutely necessary that the department should give the widest possible circulation to the order.
MR. STANTON JUSTIFIED.
But it is said that the Secretary ought not to have published his reasons for the revocation of the convention. Why not? It is the first time I have ever heard it claimed that any officer or public functionary may not give a reason for disapproving the acts of a subordinate, and lest he may take offence at them.
The convention was a matter of the utmost importance to the whole country. The army and the country may well be supposed to have been jubilant over the restoration of peace. It might well be supposed that a sudden return to a state of war crushing out the joyous anticipations of the army of a speedy return to the loved ones at home, and the expectations of the people of a speedy return of husbands, brothers and fathers, would create great dissatisfaction in the army, and with A large portion of the people. Add to this the well known fact that there has been A large element of semi-disloyalists in the loyal States, who have suffered no opportunity to embarrass the government to pass unimproved, and it will at once be seen how essential it was to accompany so important an act as this with reasons and explanations that would at least tend to satisfy the army and the people that it was proper and necessary.
And here again it is somewhat remarkable that no fault is found with the reasons themselves. It is not denied that they were sound and just. You say they were "stinging"-not that they were unjust or ill-founded. If truth and justice hurts or stings anybody, I had supposed the fault was not with the party who uttered it when he was required to speak, but that the party who has placed himself in a position to be hurt or stung by it must submit to it without complaint. I have heard much during the war about improper publications, that tended to embarrass military movements, but this is the first time that I have heard it claimed in this government, either in peace or in war, that the acts of a public functionary may not be criticised, lest his dignity be insulted or outraged.
It is undoubtedly true that this controversy is deeply to be deplored.
SHERMAN.
General Sherman-is a man of wonderful energy and capacity, for command. He has justly and firmly earned a reputation as a commanding general which certainly has not been surpassed, if it has been equalled, by any one of the splendid officers
<c06>
which this gigantic war has developed. And the error which it is confessed by his friends that he committed in this convention will not essentially impair his well-earned fame.
MR. STANTON'S ADMINISTRATION OF MILITARY AFFAIRS.
But has not the Secretary of War discharged his duties with equal fidelity and ability? It is true that his duties have been in the Cabinet, and not in the field. They do not come so prominently before the people at large, nor bring with them the same eclat that is acquired by a general on the battle field. But he has met the herculeanlabor of organizing and supplying our immense armies, and giving energy and vigor to their movements, with a self-sacrificing zeal and devotion that are worthy of all praise. With countless millions of public funds subject to his control, his integrity is above suspicion and beyond reproach.
The only exception that is made to his administration of the War Department has been that be is unpolished and abrupt in his manners, and in his intercourse with the public in the transaction of official business. Even this is not true. He is prompt and decided in the despatch of business. He acts upon his own judgment and conviction of right and duty. No official influence or weight of character can influence or control him. And this is really the origin of the charges of a want of courtesy that are so extensively made against him. He will "not crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning." Citizens in private life and in humble position approach him freely, are received with courtesy and kindness, and are satisfied with their reception.
But men in high position and in commanding official stations, who go to him for especial favors, and ask for things which he considers prejudicial to the public welfare, are very likely to be disappointed, and to leave him dissatisfied, and raise a bowl about his rudeness and want of courtesy in his official intercourse with the public.
In the darkest hour which the country has seen, when the President and Secretary of State were in the agonies of death, when the Vice President, Secretary of War and the lieutenant-General were tracked and hunted by assassins, it was the clear head and dauntles courage of Edwin M. Stanton that led us safely through the storm. It was be who placed a guard around the Vice President within the hour after the President had breathed his last breath.
The country cannot afford to surrender up such a man as this to appease the wounded vanity of any general in our armies, however brilliant may have been his services, or towering may be his fame.
The question of propriety or taste, as to the time or manner of publishing the order revoking the Sherman and Johnston convention, and the reasons for it, are too trifling and insignificant to be the subject of controversy. And this is not what troubles General Sherman. Without meaning to question the purity of his motives in entering into this convention with General Johnston, it is searely to be doubted that Sherman was stimulated with a desire to add to his brilliant fame as a soldier the reputation of having brought the war to a close by negotiating a final treaty of peace. The clamor which is now made, and the extraordinary conduct of General Sherman in exhibiting his rudeness, and chagrin, and mortification, in the face of the whole army and the nation, by refusing to the Secretary the common civilities of life, is merely a cry of rage and disappointed ambition.
THE PRESIDENT AND MR. STANTON.
If the Secretary of War is merely the President's clerk, as General Sherman claims, why does he obey his orders? The answer undoubtedly is that his orders are the President's orders. Then why does he not hold the President responsible for them? Is it claimed that the order revoking the Sherman and Johnston convention was made without the knowledge and consent of the President? We suppose not. Then why hold the President's clerk responsible for the act of the President? So of the reasons for the revocation of the convention. They purport to be reasons of the President, and doubtless are so. By what warrant does anybody charge them upon the Secretary of War? General Sherman is famous for flank movements. It would not be prudent to charge the President in front. The Secretary of War has some enemies. There is not a thief in the army, nor in the hordes outside who want to prey upon the public treasury, that does not want the Secretary of War out of the Cabinet.
This is, therefore, supposed to be the President's weak flank, and that he may be attacked here with better prospects of success than anywhere else. But, however it may be masked or concealed, it is an attack on the President and the Administration. It is so regarded by the opponents of the Administration. They approve of the Sherman and Johnston convention. They will, of course, join with General Sherman and his friends in denouncing the Secretary of War and the President for setting it aside.
But the solemn good sense of the loyal people of the country will frown down all attempts to make war upon the Administration, or the Secretary of War, on account of their action on this subject.-Correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial.

WANTED-A HERO.
Our democratic friends of the coppery persuasion are just now in want of a hero-a recipient of their fulsome adulations. Never was a party "worse put to it," as Mrs. Partington would say, for A leader. Byron wrote, long ago, "I want a hero-an uncommon want." And the want is no less uncommon now than in Byron's time. Japhet in search of a paternal parent was not in a more trying condition than this remnant of the late democratic party.
The chief actors in the last Presidential canvass made such a botch of it that it will be along time before the party will dare to let them take hold again. All their predictions, resolutions, hopes and expectations have been so signally brought to nought, that an "entire change of programme" is needed. McClellan, the pet hero "of an hour," has gone to Europe, that time may sooner draw the veil of for getfulness over his military and political career. Fernando Wood, the great engineer of the McClellan and Pendleton Peace fizzle, also found it necessary to take a tour to Europe, and with his great exemplar of the army, like the Jews of old, will "tarry at Jericho till his beard be grown."
Vallandigham is, to use a common phrase, "played out," and it will belong before the party will care to take him upon its shoulders again, though be will not banish himself, nor submit to be banished by the party, willingly.
In its extremity, the party has made several spasmodic efforts to appropriate President Johnson, but ho don't stay appropriated: and it is just now turning its attention to another victim. Gen. Sherman has been selected as a subject; and he is being beslimed with insincere praise, with the hope that the rejection of his treaty with Johnston by the administration may be made something of. Every copperhead sheet in the Country, has commenced its panegyrics on Sherman, which invariably end in a bitter philippic against the administration. Now, this is all well enough, if the insincerity and the base motive were not so apparent. When Gen. Sherman with his veteran army started from Atlanta for Savannah, on that great march that has made him so famous, and for days and weeks was lost in the bowels of the confederacy, these same papers saw nothing in his course to praise, but everything to denounce. In the first place, they knew that be and his army would be gobbled up entire, and they even went so far as to express their belief that it would serve him right. Then he was called a blood-thirsty and cruel monster, who was taking his army through the unprotected rural districts of the confederacy, murdering old men and children, ravishing women, and burning and destroying property. They copied these denunciatory articles from Southern papers with great gusto, as one argument to prove that we never could conquer "our Southern brethren" in such an unholy warfare as Gen. Sherman was waging.
We are glad to see that these copperhead sheets have changed their opinion of the gallant Sherman, and his manner of conducting the war. We shall be very much mistaken in the character of the man, if he allows himself to be made a political tool of by the copperhead clique of the late democratic party. No loyal man can afford to submit to the embrace of that party (or rather remnant of a party) that was so lately in sympathy, if not in league with traitors and rebels in arms against the Union and our free and popular government. Such an embrace is certain political death to the victim.-Kenosha Telegraph.
