THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO.1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1770.
<c01>
Selections.
LETTER FROM A CITY BESIEGED.
Let us glance anywhere throughout the insurrectionary States, and we shall see that retribution has everywhere followed on the footsteps of wrong,-and that in our own States, also, the same great lesson has been taught.
Our fathers, for the sake of forming a Union, of establishing freedom and of securing peace, in an unhallowed and unhappy hour consented to permit a great wrong to continue. Their Union is torn asunder; eight millions of whites are being slowly lifted up from under the crushing weight of the cruelest oppression; the whole land is in mourning because of the untimely blood by brothers shed. By the light of tens of thousands of once happy homes in flames, we see a desolated land and the graves of nearly a million of the victims of civil war, and read the stern lesson that though hand join in hand, however history may bless and posterity revere them, the decree of the Overruler, that punishment shall everywhere follow injustice, can neither be repealed nor evaded.
Missouri first led in the bloody strife between slavery and freedom. She sought the young child’s life. How is it with Missouri to-day? The child Kansas is a young giant now, and has severely punished her old enemy. Kansas, as soon as her arm had the strength to strike, broke asunder the chains of the Missouri slaves, depopulated her once formidable border region, scattered her sons like chaff before the wind, pillaged her barns and her homes, and laid waste her fertile farms. Never was retribution more poetical, more righteous, more speedy. It is the old fight of David and Goliath renewed between modern States. Again the young shepherd is the victor: again the vaunting champion of the enemy of God lies low. Again, too the chosen people begin to occupy the Promised Land. The Missouri of the future will be as different from the Missouri of the past as the land of Palestine was from the country of the old Canaanites.
Slaveholding Maryland shed the first blood in this civil war; and she has been the first to submit to the rule of the spirit whom she outraged.
Charleston was the first city to open fire on the emblem of a freedom that she hated; and she has been the first to fall a victim to its power. Day by day her ruins multiply. It seems almost a providential circumstance that she was not captured; for only by her obstinacy could she have been punished as she is now being punished, and as she so richly deserves.
Virginia-mother of slaves and slave-traders, whose prosperity was founded on the traffic in human flesh and blood, proud of her infamy, glorying in her shame-threw down the severed head of a saint as her gauntlet of defiance to the friends of equal and impartial justice, of human brotherhood, of Christian love and social progress. Hardly had the Northern hills wrapt the martyr’s hoary head in their ample mantles: hardly had the coffins of his followers been hidden from her fiercely malignant gaze; hardly had the echo of those immortal seventeen rifles died away among the mountains of Harper’s Ferry ere a stern John Brown was succeeded by an indignant North,-the seventeen white heroes by seventeen white States, treading with defiant and solemn purpose the bloody soil of Virginia, to execute the vengeance that she had provoked from Heaven by her cruelties to the slave and her murders of their friends. And John Brown’s five colored soldier,-how they have been avenged! From the five millions of their brethren a great army has been organized, who are destined to keep their former oppressors in subjection. Virginia is a blackened wilderness. Her most fertile valley has been laid waste. Her slaves are free. Her once wealthy men are chiefly paupers. Her first families have been almost exterminated. The home of her great slaveholding solider is a camp for emancipated slaves and a Northern soldiers’ cemetery. The house of her governor is a heap of ashes. Her capital is invested by an army, which will either capture or destroy it. Her churches are hospitals for our national troops. Never since the destruction of Jerusalem has there been ruin so complete. And her punishment is not yet full.
Only one district of Virginia was somewhat true to freedom during all her history since the colonial period: and that portion has separated itself from her and been admitted into the Union as a sovereign and independent State.
Georgia, at a critical hour, threw her sword into the trembling scales, and settled the destiny of the Gulf States. Had she stood true to her convictions, the rebellion would have soon been quelled. But slavery had corrupted her, and she cast her lot with Virginia, that other traitor whose decision settled the fate of the northern as hers did that of the southern section of the Confederacy, Their guilt was the same in kind, and so has been her punishment. Like Virginia, she has to mourn a desolated territory, for her richest region is devasted; many of her towns are depopulated and in ruins; her governor’s house is a heap of ashes; her domain has been the battle-ground of contending armies. Her granaries feed our invading forces, her slaves fight against her. Her pride has been utterly humbled. Her power has departed, or is rapidly passing into other hands.
The young Mississippi States can count their dead on every battle-field; for although new territory has been comparatively untouched, their sons have been forced to bite the dust wherever the flag of treason has flaunted.
The punishment of South Carolina appears to be reserved as the closing scene of the great tragedy. If our soldiers have their way, that penalty will be terrible indeed. The State will be made a howling wilderness, or divided exclusively between our colored soldiers and her former slaves. But she, too, in the persons of her sons, has shared in full measure the punishment inflicted on Virginia. Beneath a hundred battle-fields they lie, cold and stiff, where no sound can awake them to fury again. She sees, too, on her soil the first colored soldiers who were recruited in the slave States-and heard in their first battle-cry the warning voice which told that slavery was dead, dead, dead!
New Orleans, the most lawlessly insolent of the slaveholding cities, was whipped into quietness by an officer so stern and undaunted that she has been regarded since as a bully coward-not as a brave man defeated.
North Carolina, the best of all the slave States, where the anti-slavery spirit and the love of Union have been best preserved, has suffered least of all. None of her cities have been ruined, none of her fields devastated, none of her railroads or public works destroyed. To be sure, her sons have suffered seriously, but they were guilty, and deserved it. Had she resisted her temptation, she would have escaped all violence; for our armies would have occupied her territory, and protected it for the sake of dividing the domain of the rebellion.
<c02>
Shall we mention Delaware? The time has passed when laughter (one of the beat gifts of a good Father to His children) was regarded as either wicked or out of place even in a religious paper. So I will venture to say that if Delaware has escaped punishment, the fact may be accounted for, perhaps, by one of two little stories which are as pat (PAT,) (or what the French call a propos) as any of Mr. Lincoln’s choice collection.
“Why don’t you spank that baby, husband?” asked the nervous wife.
“Fact is,” was the fatherly response, “can’t find any place big enough.”
The theory to be drawn from this story is obvious. But the second is still better.
One Sabbath, somewhere out West, an anti-slavery lecturer was denouncing the sin of slaveholding, and showing the complicity of the North with respect to it. Suddenly the clouds lowered; the wind rose; the rain fell fast; a thunder storm came on. It was almost dark in the room, and the thunder drowned the speaker’s voice. A pro-slavery man arose, and said he regarded this storm as an indication of God’s wrath at the blasphemy of the speaker, and the violation of the Sabbath, and added that he trembled at being found in such company. Sojourner Truth (the “African Sybil” of Mrs. Stowe) was present, and got up to quiet him.
“Sit down, chile,” she said, “sit down; don’t be skeered; I ‘spects God’s never heern tell on you!”
But, really, could so small a State as Delaware endure a greater punishment, and yet live, than to be represented in this great era in the Senate of the United States by such a man as Mr. Saulsbury? Yet her days as a slaveholder are numbered also.
Kentucky and Tennessee, both disloyal States, have been punished by their own sons. The East Tennessee loyalists exterminate the Tennessee rebels wherever they capture them, without hesitation and without mercy, and avow their determination to permit no one of them to live in the country. One portion of the State seemed destined to escape its just dues-for the operations of the East Tennesseeans are confined chiefly to their own section. Rousseau, the general commanding Middle Tennessee, has been very tender toward traitors. But Hood, whose army now lies encamped within three miles of where I write, has come up like a scourge of God, to punish her, and reduce her to rags. When I looked at the fortifications and positions of his army last Sabbath morning, I could feel no hatred of him; for I knew he was plundering the slaveholders, whom we had protected far and near, and was accomplishing (Pharaoh or Judas like) a necessary task. I did not praise or excuse him; but I looked at his acts, and thanked God, and took courage. For I have seen that wherever, from motives of policy, we have tried to conciliate oppressors, we have failed, and been obliged to go over the ground and do the work again. And so, I felt no regret to see Hood near Nashville. If he enters Kentucky, he will do the same work there that he is doing here. The hearts of the slaveholders in that State are as hard yet as ever. This plague of the first born has taught them only to hate the prophets more-not to repent. The plague, therefore, must continue; and if they do not heed it, they must be drowned in the Red Sea of civil war. Meanwhile, guerillas rove at large throughout the length and breadth of the State, plundering and murdering with impunity.
But it is useless to trace out the lesson more minutely as regards individual cities or States, for the record may be summed up in a single sentence; slavery built a gallows for the Mordecai of freedom, and hangs on it herself, an unpitied culprit, writhing in the agonies of death.
Let us see how classes are punished-how the cup they give the slave to drink has been put to their own lips.
I have seen the children of once wealthy slaveholders clad in the coarse “negro cloth” which formerly was only used by slaves.
I know that once wealthy slaveholding families have often been forced to live for months on corn bread and a little bacon-formerly the diet of none but the slave.
I know that once wealthy slaveholding ladies are now obliged to work hard for a living; that they are forcibly separated from their husbands; that their children are wrested from them by conscript officers; that they are sometimes obliged to fly, and sometimes driven from their homes; that they are occasionally pressed by hunger to save their lives by begging and (God pity them!) by worse; that their little daughters can at some places be seen without shoes and stockings, while the negro children at their sides are comfortably clad; that their word is doubted and their petitions refused, when their former slaves are believed and protected; that they are compelled to endure without a word the insolence of blacks which, a few years ago, they would have punished by stripes till the blood ran down the culprit’s back in streams. I know that wealthy slaveholding ladies have been halted by soldiers once their own slaves, and obliged to show their passes! In truth, there is hardly any humiliation that the negro formerly endured, that the slaveholder and his parasites, “the poor white trash,” do not now undergo. A negro soldier telling how he had forced his old mistress to stop and show her pass said, “Halt is de sweetest word I ever spoke.”
The poor whites were the slave-hunters of the hard old times. They hunted the runaways with bloodhounds. They have been hunted with the same dogs by conscript officers. The fugitive slaves were compelled to hide in caves, and holes, and in the depths of forests and swamps. So have been the poor whites. The slaves were arrested wherever found, and flung into prison. So have been the poor whites. The slaves were whipped and shot for trying to escape. So have been the poor whites. The slaves were forced to fly from their homes and families. So have been the poor whites. The slaves were driven like sheep to the slaughter, into the deadly cane-brakes of Louisiana and other States. So have the poor whites been driven into the still deadlier trenches of Virginia and Georgia.
Truly, the Lord liveth, and heareth the cry of the poor, and avengeth those who call on Him in their distress! TWEED.
Nashville, Saturday night, Dec. 10.
AN INCIDENT BY THE WAY.
On my last trip toward Huntsville we found the track torn up, and the cross-ties still burning. Nearly half a mile was destroyed-for the iron had been heated till it was bent and useless. Guerrillas were seen at a distance. Pickets were thrown out, and the negroes and white laborers went to work. As it was getting dark, the fences were soon made into huge fires to enable the workmen to see. Suddenly a “butternut” laborer came running along the line.
“The rebels! The rebels!”
“How many?” asked the captain.
“Oh! the world is full of them!” he shouted, without stopping a second.
<c03>
“The situation” had quite a serious aspect-a small party of us, enclosed by woods, with thick undergrowth, great fires to show our position, and no knowledge of the whereabouts of Granger’s command. But “the rebels” proved to be our own men-an Indiana cavalry regiment that was hunting a mounted gang of guerrillas. One of their men had been tortured and then murdered a few days before, and these boys declared that their rule of action was death to all traitors, and to take no prisoners.
In a few hours-with really wonderful speed-the break was repaired, and we went slowly on our way. These rapid repairs have caused the Georgians to invent a new military maxim: “The Yankees carry their railroads with them.”
On these car tops one often hears tales of deeds of heroism by privates that somehow seldom get into print.
On my last trip down, I was speaking to an officer about the hospitals. A soldier who sat next to me said he had been a steward in one of them several months. I asked him if the soldiers, when they were sick, persisted in the continuous swearing which characterizes the army.
“No, sir,” he said, “they are like little children then; they return to their father’s house.”
I saw that I had come in contact with a man worth talking to, and had a long conversation with him. Only a few scraps of it can be given now:
“Oh,” he said, “they are so grateful for the smallest favors! I have heard them say so softly, ‘thank you. sir,’ for every little thing I did for them, that I was almost ashamed. I thought I had seen brave men in battle, but I never knew what bravery was till I went to the hospital. They often told me to fix them out.”
“What is that?”
“Well, they would see that the Doctor gave them up, and they would ask me about it. I would tell them the truth. I told one man that, and he asked how long? I said, not over twenty minutes. He did not show any fear-they never do. He put up his hand so, and closed his eyes with his own fingers, and then stretched himself out, and crossed his arms over his breast. ‘Now, fix me,’ he said. I pinned the toes of his stockings together; that was the way we laid corpses out; and he died in a few minutes. His face looked as pleasant as if he was asleep and smiling. Many’s the time the boys have fixed themselves that way before they died.”
I asked him another question:
“Yes,” he said, “the soldiers when they are dying almost always speak of some woman. When they are married men, it’s oftenest about their wives. If they are not married, it is mostly their mothers and sisters-oftenest a mother.”
I saw that the soldier had a Bible in his pocket.
“When I left my company,” he said, “I thought nothing of the swearing; but when I came back to it from the hospital, it seemed awful.”
Yet such is the power of the influence of association that my good friend-really and not sham pious friend-when I afterward spoke of the insurgents, got indignant at the contemplation of their conduct, and called them the d-d rebels!
BERWICK.
-Nashville (Miss.) corr. Of Boston Journal.
WHAT GEN. BUTLER IS DOING.
There are few of our Generals who are more fertile in expedients than Gen. Butler. He is always active, and appears to delight in doing what other men regard as beyond their line of duty. Last spring he conceived the idea of establishing vegetable gardens on the grounds adjoining the hospitals located about Fortress Monroe. These grounds had been lying waste from the breaking out of the rebellion, but under his management they have been made to bring forth succulent and nutritious vegetables for the tables of our invalid soldiers, in quantities which attest most emphatically the thoroughness of his culture. The official return of this produce, just made, shows the total money value to have been over $19,000, the aggregate including the following articles grown: 700 bushels snap beans, 100 bushels beets, 130 bushels carrots, 120 bushels lima beans, 470 bushels potatoes, 3,050 heads of cabbage, 28,930 ears of corn, 1,500 water melons, 2,500 musk melons.
Apart from any consideration of pecuniary gain, the amount of good accomplished by this vegetable garden, in furnishing proper food for the inmates of the hospitals, must have been inestimable. This plan of raising vegetables on the grounds adjoining the hospitals, it is said, is the only way in which a supply of fresh vegetables can be procured for our hospitals at the South; and it will no doubt be adopted elsewhere along the seaboard, now that its practicability is so successfully demonstrated. At Murfreesboro’ and Chattanooga, similar gardens are already cultivated.
Gen. Butler has also furnished recently another evidence of his prudence and wisdom as a commander. By an order issued a fortnight since, he has detailed one of his chaplains as Superintendent of Public Education, both of white and colored children, in the District of Eastern Virginia, wherever it is found necessary to establish schools; and at the same time has directed the Provost Marshal of Norfolk to cause all buildings heretofore appropriated to public schools to be put in order for the reception of school children, and to see to it that they are properly furnished and warmed in the most economical manner for that purpose. He will also cause all the white children in the cities of Norfolk and Portsmouth, between the ages of 5 and 16, to attend school at least thirty hours each week, holidays excepted. In any case where proper school-books cannot be furnished by the parents, for want of ability, he will cause such books to be purchased as are approved by the Superintendent of Public Education.
All white boys under the ages of ten years, and all white female children, will be placed under the instruction of female teachers, who will be nominated by the Superintendent of Public Education. A boy’s school for children above that age will be established in each city, under the direction of a male teacher. In his order on this subject, Gen. Butler says, that it being the duty of every parent and guardian to that children under their charge have instruction, it is not the less the duty of the Government to see that none of the children of its citizens grow up without proper education, which education only can be furnished and the means provided by the military authorities in the present disturbed state of society. It is therefore made obligatory upon every parent to cause every child to attend school regularly.
A school will be established at Fortress Monroe, and some suitable apartment will be provided for that purpose for the children of soldiers and employes of the Government who are residing there, or at Camp Hamilton, or Hampton. There is no provision made for colored children in this order, as they are already being educated through the humane benevolence of the charitable people of the North.
Gen. Butler has likewise just established at Nor-
<c04>
folk a Savings Bank for the benefit of the 75,000 freedmen in his department. Within a few weeks, over $24,000 had been placed on deposit for the benefit of colored people. The above amount was received before the bank was in full operation.-Newark Daily Advertiser.
STREET CARS AND THE RIGHTS OF CITIZENS.
The pro-slavery rule which still disgraces the government of the city railroads cannot long be maintained in opposition to the judgment of the public. Wholesale proscription of any class of citizens cannot be tamely endured, and the exclusion of colored people from the cars is a piece of unmitigated injustice. This rule makes no exceptions. Whatever may be the condition of colored men or women, they are rigorously excluded, solely because of their color. The intelligence, education, and courtesy of many of our colored citizens obtain them the ordinary consideration common in respectable society, but are not respected in the rules of the street cars. Age has no indulgence, loyalty no reward, sex no respect, in these rules; and, far worse than this, they are enforced in scorn of justice. While all colored men, women, and children are refused admittance to the cars, or expelled from the very platforms at the pleasure of the conductors, the worst classes of the whites may ride. It is a common thing in the cars to see the rules which forbid smoking violated with the full knowledge of the conductors; to hear men swearing and using improper language in the presence of ladies; to be annoyed by the disgusting behavior of intoxicated persons; to have women of the town take places by respectable ladies. These annoyances are as common in the street cars as in the streets; and yet the rules which exclude all colored persons are justified on the pretext that they protect the comfort of passengers.
The rights of colored persons in city cars recently received acknowledgment from Judge PRATT, of San Francisco, whose decision we print in another column. His answer to the argument, that railroad companies have a right to manage their own affairs, is excellent. That he admits, but shows that they have no right to manage the affairs of the general public, which is exactly what they attempt to do by the exclusion of colored people. Where will they find the right to make such distinctions between one and another on the ground of color? They are constituted common carriers by the law, and violate it daily in the enforcement of their rules. Judge PRATT well says that the only justification of the rules the railroad companies have adapted would be legislation authorizing the exclusion of colored people, and that, until such authority has been given, the color of a man’s skin is illegal reason for expelling him from a car. If the colored people of this city are in earnest, and would maintain their self-respect, they must not cease to urge their civil rights. Not only justice but law is upon their side in this dispute, and their cause will be warmly sustained by all who despise prejudice, and the petty, inconsistent tyranny of these anti-Republican rules. -Philadelphia Press.

THE R0MAN CATHOLIC CLERGY AND HUMAN LIBERTY.
We stated, a few weeks since, certain very obvious facts bearing upon the conduct of the Roman Catholic priesthood of this country with regard to slavery and the rebellion. Those facts seemed to us so important and significant as to challenge the gravest public attention. That they are facts, substantially, has not, so far as we have seen, been directly controverted in any of the strictures which our articles have provoked. Certain Catholic journals intimate that making such statements is on our part impolitic, which is quite possible, and that our party will suffer for them, which may or may not be so. Some impute to us proscriptive and sectarian impulses which we utterly disclaim. We have had ten articles arraigning the conduct regarding slavery of the Protestant ecclesiastics of this country, for every one that even alluded to their Catholic fellow-craftsmen. We have no shadow of desire to exalt one church at the expense of another, nor to excite prejudice against any. We call attention to the shortcomings of the Roman Catholic priesthood respecting liberty and slavery, in the hope of inciting to reform. We mean that European Catholics shall know the fact that their American brethren, to-day, form the chief bulwark of the Man-owning, Woman-selling “institution” in this country. We hope to evoke remonstrances and counteraction from the Montalemberts and Dupanloups of the Old World; at all events, we shall try, and can at the worst but fail. Let us call their attention to a few additional facts:
I. The State of Maryland was first lawfully settled by a Catholic colony, whose chief enjoys the high honor of having been the first to found a settlement in America on the proclaimed basis of perfect toleration for all forms of Christian faith and polity. Several of its lower counties are largely if not preponderantly peopled by native Catholics, and the Catholic is one of the strongest denominations in the State, not only in numbers but in wealth. That State has just shaken off the incubus of slavery, after an earnest, protracted struggle, wherein nine-tenths of her Catholic people (native as well as Irish-born.) and we believe all her Catholic clergy, have stood for slavery throughout.
Now it serves no end here to babble of “Democracy” and “standing by the Democratic party;” for the native Catholics of Maryland were mainly Federalists under Washington and Adams, anti-Jackson at a later day, and Whigs of the school of Clay and Taylor. All their instincts, traditions, leanings, are against partisan democracy; yet they have since 1860 gone solid for what is called the Democratic ticket, because, and only because, that is the side of slavery. They have no other affinity with what calls itself Democracy.
II. Missouri was likewise first settled under Catholic auspices, and slavery thus planted on its soil while it was still a dependency of Spain. She, too, has had a terrible struggle with the rebellious fiend, which she has very nearly exorcised, and which she will ere long have utterly cast out. But, throughout this struggle, the great body of her Catholics, and especially of their priests, have been, as they still are, on the side of slavery and its adjuncts, resisting Emancipation, and thus affording aid and comfort to the rebellion. Missouri will soon be a free State; but in spite of her Catholic priests, rather than by means of their exertions.
III. In all the wide reg. on controlled by the rebels, we have never yet heard of one Catholic priest who was not on their side, recognizing their functionaries as “the powers that be” who are “ordained of God.” The Archbishop of Charleston is now the Confederate envoy at tin Papal Court, where he has elicited the only plain recognition of Mr. Jefferson Davis as a chief magistrate that has been accorded by any European government. But when territory reverts from the rebels to the Union, (as in the case of New Orleans, which we have held uncontested for nearly three years,) we hear of no in-
<c05>
stance in which its Catholic priesthood considers our authorities as “the powers that be” whom they are religiously bound to respect and defer to; on the contrary, they generally remain bitterly, though not demonstratively, rebel. And, whereas all the Catholic clergy within the rebel lines are acting rebels, we know of scarcely one under the Union flag who is any more loyal than the law requires him to be. As a body, their influence discourages enlistments in our armies, and tends to enfeeble and paralyze the prosecution of the war.
Are these statements disputed? Is it denied that the Empire just established in Mexico, in defiance of the undisguised repugnance and the traditional policy of this country, is under special Papal blessing and guidance? that its Emperor visited Rome on purpose to obtain them, prior to setting foot on the soil of the New World? Does any one doubt that the crippling of the power of the United States, through the triumph of the slaveholders’ rebellion, is among the means whereby the success of that experiment is expected-at Rome as well as elsewhere -to be assured? -New York Tribune.

PRISON LIFE IN THE LAND OF CHIVALRY.
Captain A. R. Calhoun, of Kentucky, for nine months a prisoner in the South, delivered an address in Odd Fellows’ Hall, last Saturday evening, for the benefit of sick and wounded soldiers. Captain Calhoun was an officer in the 1st Kentucky Cavalry, and was wounded and taken prisoner while in the Army of the Cumberland. On being introduced, he expressed his thanks to the audience for responding and contributing to so worthy an object. He spoke of his situation when the war broke out, and his present feelings on the subject, and related the treatment he and his companions received at the hands of rebels while confined in Southern prisons. He spoke of the cost of loyalty in his State, and the sacrifices the people of Kentucky have made for the Union. His father’s house had been burned to the ground by the destroying hand of the guerilla, his mother and sisters sought protection in the North, his brother was slain by a rebel bullet, another had been severely wounded four different times, and himself wounded and taken prisoner. He said the people of the North ought to be loyal, for loyalty costs them nothing; yet, there were too many traitors in the North, and the people made treason respectable. There were men in the North who frowned when the Federal arms achieved a victory, and rejoiced when they met with a reverse. He belonged to no party, for parties had long since ceased to exist, and there were but two questions to be considered-treason and loyalty. He believed if the people of the North had stood firm, the rebellion would have been crushed long ago. Vallandigham could travel all over the North, uttering his treasonable language, but had never dared to put his foot on Kentucky soil, because the people of that State do not respect treason. In speaking of his treatment in the South, he said he had been wounded, and remained upon the field, and was taken up by the rebels, robbed of part of his clothing, his money taken from him, and amid the scoffs and jeers of the “chivalry” he and his companions commenced their journey to Richmond. As they passed through different towns of the South, fiends, in the shape of women, pelted them with stones, and jeered at their misfortune. They were confined in a room of Libby Prison, with scarcely space to lie down. The windows were barred, and a guard placed on the outside, with instructions to shoot them if they came within a certain distance. He saw two of his fellow-prisoners shot at the same time, as they were dragging their skeleton frames toward a ray of sunshine that shone through the barred windows of their prison to enjoy its warmth. Our government sent them four months’ rations, and clothing for every prisoner; but only part of the rations were received, and the clothing was appropriated for the use of the rebels, and the Confederate soldiers stood guard over them clad in the Federal uniform. After much hard labor, they succeeded in digging a tunnel under the main street, and one hundred and ten of them escaped. He and a companion started for the Federal lines, marching at night and hiding in daytime; but as they approached the lines of our army, were retaken, and sent back to Libby Prison to undergo the hardships they had so nearly succeeded in escaping from.
Capt. Calhoun’s address was of the most thrilling nature, and received the closest attention, his remarks being frequently applauded.-Norristown Free Press.

NEGROES IN THE HALLS OF CONGRESS.
The Washington correspondent of the Boston Advertiser, writing of the opening of Congress, has the following:
It was noticeable that there were in the Senate galleries about a dozen colored persons-sitting on the back seats, to be sure, but as well-behaved and properly dressed as any other persons in the gallery. This is the first time negroes were ever present on opening day, though, towards the close of the last session, it was no uncommon thing to see them in the galleries-more particularly in those of the Senate. Indeed, I believe they were first allowed in the Senate gallery. Three short years ago, negroes were not allowed in the Capitol at all, except in a menial capacity; and I saw a man and two women very unceremoniously hustled out of the rotunda one day during the extra session of 1861. The negro who then had dared to show himself at the door of one of the galleries would have been regarded as crazy. I well remember the first one who presented himself for admission to the Senate gallery. He came in the closing days of February, 1862-halting, timid, deprecating, half supplicating, and asked, “Boss, could you let a poor nig see Mass’r Sum’er?” He was not only allowed to look in and see “the great Massachusetts Abolitionist,” as he was then designated by the elite of aristocratic Washington, but was actually invited to walk in, and sit on one of the seats -to the great horror, of course, of all who believed in the physical, moral and intellectual superiority of Mr. Secesh and his family.
With the opening of the session two years ago came orders from the Sergeant-at-Arms, whose manhood and humanity were tried so long ago as the Alton-Lovejoy riots, and neither then nor since found wanting, to admit colored persons to the Senate galleries whenever they applied, without any other restrictions than those imposed upon white persons. They were admitted to the House galleries during the last term of Mr. Grow’s speakership; but I believe it was not till Mr. Colfax came into the chair that any definite orders were given for their free and unrestrained admission. Of course, the action of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate made comment-both in and out of the chamber. Such high-toned gentlemen as Senators Saulsbury and Garret Davis were exceedingly incensed, and the former has taken occasion to express his scorn and contempt for such an infringement of the rights of 
<c06>
white men and women on several occasions when these colored men and women were present. Various semi-secesh women of Washington were also excessively shocked at this alarming evidence of our national relapse into barbarism, and charged it all to “Sumner and the nasty abolitionists” -declaring, with flashing eyes and scornfully turned upper lip, that it was an insult to every body in the land to admit “niggers” into the gallery. The enormity of the offence is shown by the fact that, in the two years, perhaps as many as fifty different colored persons have visited the Senate gallery; some of whom have actually been there two or three times. This revolution, at least, will not go backward. Hereafter color will not be a qualification for admission to all parts of the Capitol. This morning I actually met, in one of the lower halls, four soldiers exploring the building together, two of whom were whites and two of whom were negroes. When whites and negroes meet on such terms of equality as that, what may we not expect next?

“HOG WINDER.”
When the sufferings of our poor fellows confined in the Libby Prison and on Belle Isle, near Richmond, became known, a cry of horror was raised here and in- Europe over the barbarity of the rebels. What then did Davis and the other rebel leaders do? Did they order the refitting of the Libby Prison? Did they court-martial and punish Winder and his subordinates, who perpetrated this long series of cruel outrages? Did they explain that these things occurred without their knowledge, and were disapproved by them? Not at all; but when the evidence grew too clear for them-when they found that, if these cruelties continued to be perpetrated under their eyes in and near Richmond, they, the rebel leaders, would be everywhere held responsible for them, they removed the prisoners. They sent them from Belle Isle and the Libby Prison to Andersonville-from a place where their cries could be heard and their sufferings known, to one so obscure, so remote, that no inhumanity practised there could be immediately known-a place where the prisoners were in a tenfold degree more at the mercy of their jailors.
And whom did they send to be the jailor? The same infamous wretch, Winder, whose cold-blooded and systematic cruelties had made the prisoners of Belle Isle and the Libby a scandal no longer endurable so near to Davis; the same who, known from his early youth at West Point as “Hog Winder,” notorious ever since in the old army for his meanness, his abominable cruelty, and shunned as the possessor of every shameful vice, completed his infamy by the systematic maltreatment of helpless prisoners of war in Richmond-this person was continued in his place, and was went by Davis, with his victims, to Andersonville.
Would this have been done had not the intention been to starve and every way ill-treat our men? Would not Davis have selected some other person to rule over the prison had he desired to alleviate the sufferings of the prisoners? Is not his selection of Winder proof positive that he and his confederates intentionally commit these atrocities?-New York Post.

DEATH OF MR. DAYTON.
Mr. Dayton, our Minister at the French Court, died on the 2d Dec., in Paris, of apoplexy. He was in his 58th year, as he was born on the 17th of February, 1807, at Baskinridge, in the State of New Jersey. He was of good origin, and was regularly educated for the legal profession, on the practice of which he entered at the age of twenty-three. He was sent to the Senate of New Jersey in 1837, being then a leading Whig; and was made a Justice of his State’s Supreme Court the next year, and held the office until the close of 1841. In 1842 he entered the United States Senate, and remained in that body until March, 1851, when the triumph of the New Jersey Democrats caused his Senatorial life to cease. He was a liberal man while in the Senate, and on the slavery question much in advance of most of our statesmen, which is the more remarkable because New Jersey is even now the most illiberal State in the Union, not only on the subject of slavery, but on everything else. She is far below the average of Southern States on every question, judging by the action of a large majority of her people; and her change from narrow whiggism to narrower democracy has wrought no beneficial change in her political course. Mr. Dayton was ahead of his State, and was, until Mr. Hale entered the Senate, the most determined supporter of anti-slavery opinions that sat among American Senators in the first half of the time during which the struggle against the slaveholding rule has been going on. His vote was given against the fugitive slave bill, and he supported the bill for the abolition of the slave trade in the District of Colombia. He was also an advocate of the admission of California into the Union as a free State. When President Taylor had his trouble with the ultra Southrons, who then contemplated secession quite as ardently as afterward in 1860, Mr. Dayton was one of his most trusted supporters. These things won for him a national reputation; and when the republican movement had assumed shape and consistency, in 1856, he was nominated for the Vice Presidency, Colonel Fremont heading the ticket; and he received 114 electoral votes, and a popular vote of more than 1,340,000. Appointed Attorney-General of New Jersey, in 1857, he held the office for several years; and he was selected for the important post of Minister to France, by President Lincoln, in 1861. At that time the secession movement had led to war, and it was necessary that the representative of the United States in Paris should be a first class man; and the whole course of Mr. Dayton while residing there has established the soundness of the President’s selection. He managed affairs with great skill, and to his tact, discernment and firmness the preservation of a good understanding between the two countries is largely due. His place was no sinecure, as the French Emperor, who hates us, and would injure us if he could find anything like a pretext for hostile action, has sought opportunity to do us ill-turns, and inspired his press organs constantly to assail us. Though residing near a Court so moved by enmity to his country, our Minister behaved on all occasions in such manner as to command respect and to extort confidence. His death at so critical a time as the present is much to be regretted, apart from personal reasons. A much abler new man than Mr. Dayton-and it would not be easy to find such a man-would be new on ground of the most delicate character: and it is by no means certain that his successor will be his equal in ability.
Mr. Dayton had good rank as a Senator, and his speeches are remembered, as they commanded attention at a time when the Senate was remarkable for the talents of its members. Among the eminent men with whom Mr. Dayton served were Mr. Webster, Mr. Clay, Mr. Calhoun, Gen. Cass, Mr.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority taken, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THIS REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being tree that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive managements of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER of the ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES…From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a way, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that Instant the war power of Concerns extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slaver, to a foreign power…It is a war power. I may it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to <illegible> all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
McDuffie, Silas Wright, Mr. Hale, and Mr. Douglas; and that he should have commanded attention, because of his standing, in a body thus composed, is no slight proof of his intellectual superiority.—Boston Traveller.
The following account of Mr. Dayton’s last days and death is from a private letter received by a gentleman in New York, and appears in the Evening Post:—
He and his family dined with me on Thanksgiving Day, and on Sunday last we drove and walked together.
Mr. Dayton was in his usual health yesterday, but after dinner thought exercise would do him good, and he walked out with his son to the Palais Royale. They there separated, and Mr. Dayton made a call on a gentleman at the Hotel du Louvre. Not finding him in, he called on a lady acquaintance residing at the same hotel.
He remarked that he did not feel quite well, and apologized for lying down on the sofa. Cologne was applied to his temple, and he seemed to fall asleep. However, physicians were sent for, but it was some time before one could be found. Finally, Dr. Beylard arrived, and on examination said that life was extinct, and that probably he had been dead for an hour or more without its being discovered.
By his genial manners, becoming modesty and undeviating patriotism, Mr. Dayton everywhere made strong friends, and his countrymen resident here had for him great attachment. They will all, while deploring their own and their country’s loss, sincerely sympathize with his afflicted family.

THE REBELLION ON ITS LAST LEGS.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The statement of paroled prisoners who last arrived here is very interesting and cheering to all having the cause of the Union at heart. They left Florence on the 7th inst., and arrived in Charleston, S. C., on the 8th. The treatment they received at the former place was the same as elsewhere, most brutal. Their daily ration during the early part of their confinement consisted of three spoonfuls of beans, three spoonfuls of meal and one gill of molasses, with a little salt every other day. The last part of their time, they received one pint of meal with the usual quantity of molasses. Men became emaciated and weak, staggering about like so many inebriates; the next day they would be found dead. Some forty to fifty died daily. James Barrett, of the 5th Georgia, was the most ignorant as well as brutal of any of the keepers placed over them. Seeing some of the prisoners smiling one day at an exhibition of his stupidity, he instantly discharged his revolver at them, luckily hitting no one.
The journey from Florence to Charleston was an unbroken testimony to the desolations of war. Sergt. Major Getting of the 21st Mass. remarked to me that he saw only the white man fit for a soldier. There were to be seen plenty of women and children. All along the route, many of the houses appeared to be deserted. Their crops were poor, potatoes excepted. Just outside the city of Charleston were seen some eighty box cars, occupied as dwellings by refugees from Georgia. There is great distrust of their money, the rate of exchange being forty dollars to one in greenbacks. A rebel Lieutenant remarked that it took one year’s pay to get a common suit of clothes. The pay of privates is eighteen dollars a month. Women of the first rank wear the common straw hat, with their dresses of homespun.
A new iron-clad is nearly finished in Charleston harbor, named the City of Charleston, mounting 8 guns. A great change has taken place among the rebels in their feelings toward our men, and their relations toward the Union. In the journey from Florence to Charleston, the prisons received the kindest treatment from the common people. They expressed their disgust of the Richmond tyranny, and even Captains and Lieutenants with them prayed for the coming of Sherman. They would welcome him as a deliverer. In South Carolina there are Union Leagues established. The Unionists, when pursued, take to the swamps of the Pedee and Santee. Pursurers on entering them are not long in discovering that they have got over the “dead line”—few get out again alive. The people wear a very subdued look, and are more humane in their expressions than ever before. In no instance were our men insulted with those epithets so freely bestowed in times past. Only the aristocracy adhere to the last ditch doctrine. They will be annihilated before they will “cave in.” They needn’t wait long. The women of Charleston, especially the Irish and Germans, bestowed upon our men the most generous aid and sympathy. One lady, formerly of New Hampshire, distributed one hundred and eighty dollars worth of bread among them. Rebel officers sought to prevent her, but did not succeed.
The common soldiers (rebel) watch every opportunity to escape. They pleaded with our officers to receive them on board of their “truce boats.” The garrison of Fort Sumter would have deserted in a body had there been a chance; as it was two escaped, a sailor and a soldier.
The guard who came with the paroled prisoners to Charleston sought to come on with them, but were watched too close, and did not succeed in their purpose. The evidence on all sides was overwhelming that the soberer hours of great sorrows had begun to tell upon the most irascible, and disloyal spirits in rebeldom, and they now wished to live under the same old flag and government that have protected and blessed them so much in other days.
I am indebted to the Sergeant alluded to, and others, for the information given.
A sad affair occurred at Camp Parole a few nights ago. One of the paroled prisoners was obliged to leave his barrack at a late hour, and some of his comrades, supposing he had money, followed him, and murdered him with clubs. The friends of each took sides, forming in line of battle, when a strong guard appearing, they dispersed to their barracks.
Annapolis, Dec. 17, 1864. W. F. B.

GENERAL DIX’S ORDER.
A very natural result of the refusal of the Canadian authorities to hand over the St. Albans’ raiders is the warlike order of General Dix. We cannot say that it strikes us as well judged, or as called for just at this time. On the contrary, it is in tone and style likely to do much more harm than good. As a matter of law, it seems to be very clear that the British authorities should do one of three things: first, hand these men over to us; second, if they will not do that, then punish them themselves, and so prevent violations of neutrality; and if they decline to do that either, then clearly they must accept the third and last position, namely, to assume the responsibility of the acts of the raiders. A hostile band of men comes into our territory from Canada, and after acts of war, plunder and rapine, retires into Canada, and remains there. We have a clear right to demand from England either the men or their punishment, or we must regard it all as a British act. For so far as we are concerned, we look upon the expedition as Canadian, and the only way in which it can cease to be Canadian, is by the British authorities disowning it, and declaring it to be a violation of their neutrality laws by the organized authority of a foreign government. In that case they must prove the declaration, if they have the men in their power, by convicting and punishing them.
The permission by a neutral power to one of two belligerents to pass armies over its neutral soil has been held to be good ground for a declaration of war. A hostile force from the Southern Confederacy, coming on our frontier through Canada, must either be acting with British permission, or violating British law. The first question has been, as we understand, disposed of, to wit, whether the raiders were authorized by the Southern Confederacy. It seems to be held in Canada that they were. Then it only remains to be seen whether they invaded our soil through Canada with or without British consent. It strikes us that General Dix’s summary method of declaring war is not necessary for the settlement of this point. The more proper course would be a formal application to the British Government, in due course of diplomatic correspondence, and a warning that any more raids permitted from Canada will be held by us to be a national offence. If the decision of a Canadian judge, which has just been made, had been a distinct refusal to punish the men, and, therefore, an admission of national responsibility, the case would have one aspect; but the discharge is only technical, on a flaw in a warrant, and his decision is of no importance whatever. The order of General Dix is very likely to lead some officer with a small party into Canada, in pursuit of raiders, and to bring us into actual war with England before we are quite ready. This is an imprudent proceeding. According to the report, these men were discharged on a flaw in the warrant. It needed a signature 
<c02>
which it did not have. Such things happen in our courts. We are always technical in the arrest and delivery of prisoners under our extradition treaties. We require the papers to be perfectly correct, or a writ of habeas corpus will set the prisoners free. It would be much more sensible to defend our borders, and wait for a dignified settlement of such questions with Great Britain.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT Of MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

DURATION AND NATURE OF THE STRUGGLE.
The commencement of the Liberator upon its THIRTY-FIFTH VOLUME is the evidence of the protracted nature of the struggle for the abolition of slavery throughout the United States; yet it does not cover the entire period of our anti-slavery labors, which goes back to the year 1828, when, as editor of the Journal of the Times at Bennington, Vermont, we wrote so frequently and with such zeal upon the subject as to induce that early pioneer, Benjamin Lundy, to make a pedestrian tour from Baltimore to the Green Mountains, in order to persuade us to remove to that city, and unite with him in editing the Genius of Universal Emancipation,—changing it from a monthly to a weekly publication. We accordingly made our arrangements to join him in 1829, and did so. It was in Baltimore, of that year, that we first hoisted the banner of immediate, unconditional, universal emancipation, abandoned the idea of engaging in any other pursuit or profession while a slave remained to clank his fetters, and consecrated whatever of intellect or moral power might be given to us in the service of bleeding humanity. Thirty-six years have elapsed, therefore, since we first heard the cries of the enslaved in our land, and began to plead for their deliverance. We are addressing another generation than that with which we commenced; nevertheless, as we were only twenty-three years of age at the start, we are not yet venerable in years, as some imagine us to be. When Parson Brownlow was introduced to us at the Baltimore Convention in June last, he remarked, “You are not as old a man as I supposed.” Secretary Stanton and President Lincoln both made the same declaration on our introduction to them at Washington. The mistake arising naturally from the supposition, that we were considerably more advanced in life at the beginning of our labors. But if length of days is to be measured by unremitted service and persevering effort—by discoveries made and changes wrought in the condition of the country—by personal experiences and eventful vicissitudes—by the triumph of a hated but righteous cause over the combined prejudices and passions of a mighty population—then we are entitled to a seat among the aged. For what of agitation, of discussion, of violence, of treachery, of fidelity, of moral grandeur, of radical progress, of conflict and of victory, has not been compressed within less than two score years in this torn and bleeding land! Torn and bleeding, not because we promulgated any false doctrines or resorted to any unjustifiable measures, but because it was in accordance with eternal justice that the foul demon of slavery, in being cast out, should rend the body politic, and seek in his fury to destroy it. “We would have healed Babylon, [the South,] but she is not healed; for her judgment reacheth unto the heaven. Her whole land shall be confounded, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her. Then the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein, shall sing for Babylon; for the spoilers shall come unto her from the north, saith the Lord.”
We are not unfrequently asked, whether we ever expected to live to see the marvellous revolution which has taken place in the views and feelings of the people, as to the duty and necessity of the prompt and utter extinction of slavery. Our reply is, that we were never much given to conjecture on the subject. It must be remembered that nothing, comparatively, had been revealed, at the outset, as to the spirit and purpose of the Slave Power, or the total subjugation of the North to its terrible will. As a student, an explorer, an “agitator,” we had almost everything to learn. We knew absolutely nothing of the ramifications of the slave system, east and west, north and south; nothing of its sorcery power over the literature and politics, the manufactures and commerce, the theology and religion of the falsely called non-slaveholding or free States; nothing of the strength and virulence of complexional caste, poisoning the blood and inspiring the action of all classes of the people, often to a murderous extent. Certainly, we did not seek or expect to take a conspicuous part in the struggle for its overthrow; and therefore we confidently looked, in our simplicity and trustfulness, to the leading men in Church and State,—especially in the church and among the clergy, whom we had been educated greatly to reverence,—to go forward, assume its responsibilities, meet its issues, and receive the laudation, “Well done, good and faithful servants! Enter ye into the joy of your Lord!” Of course, in this frame of mind and state of ignorance, we were somewhat sanguine that, though the conflict might be sharp, it would not in all probability be greatly extended. But it did not take us long to be undeceived in the matter. The painful revelation, day by day, hour by hour, made in regard to the utter corruption and abject subserviency of the Northern heart and mind, and their multifarious acts of complicity with slavery,—in addition to the fiendish manifestations towards all who denounced that system on the part of the Southern “brokers in the trade of blood,”—proved that the disease was deep-seated and desperate; so that it seemed more and more doubtful whether recovery was possible. No matter how tender the appeals in behalf of the oppressed; no matter how undeniable their claims to sympathy and relief; no matter  how fundamental and time-honored the principles enunciated in opposition to such a barbarous institution; no matter how exemplary their conduct, or humane and Christian the sentiments avowed by the anti slavery men and women of the day; these were all met with bitter denunciation, coarse ridicule, religious anathema, fiery persecution, mobocratic violence, and universal prescription. “Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us? Surely your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter’s clay.” And so, for a score of years before the present rebellion, we felt solemnly impelled to deal in the language of warning, impeachment, and hot rebuke, sparing neither sect nor party, neither priest nor politician, neither Constitution nor Union; and crying aloud, in prophetic language, in season and out of season, “Woe to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin; that walk to GO DOWN INTO EGYPT, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves IN THE STRENGTH OF PHARAOH, and to trust IN THE
<c03>
SHADOW OF EGYPT! Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.”
And how exactly applicable was this language to this whole nation, and especially to all the northern portion of it, in the idiotic reliance placed upon the pro-slavery compromises with the South as ensuring the perpetuity of a most unnatural and iniquitous Union! And how literally has the threatened “woe” been executed upon the land, in a civil war of unparalleled magnitude, the soil gory with human blood, the sky and sea lurid with the flames of retaliatory conflagration, the Union dashed in pieces as a potter’s vessel is broken! Where, now, is “the strength of Pharaoh”? and who but the vilely desperate or the incurably insane propose once more to “trust in the shadow of Egypt”? “Who is the wise man that may understand this? and who is he to whom the mouth of the Lord hath spoken, that he may declare it, for what the land perisheth and is burned up like a wilderness? Thus saith the Lord, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches; but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercise loving kindness, judgment and righteousness in the earth: for IN THESE THINGS I DELIGHT, saith the Lord.”
The precise manner of our national punishment was hidden from all eyes, but of its certainty and severity none who believed in the indissoluble connection of retribution with sin could doubt. It was solely with reference to slavery,—then comparatively insignificant, that Thomas Jefferson, at an early day, exclaimed—“I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep forever.” As that vast system of robbery and cruelty is the essential cause of this awful visitation, so its instant and total abolition will give the land rest, stop the effusion of blood, and procure for us, as a people, an enduring union based on liberty and justice for all, whereby our peace shall be like a river, and our prosperity as the waves of the sea.

LETTER FROM RICHARD D. WEBB.
DUBLIN, Dec. 7, 1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON: You will be sorry to hear that the Earl of Carlisle (better known in the United States as Lord Morpeth) died at his residence at Castle Howard, Yorkshire, on Monday, the 5th inst., in the 63d year of his age. He was attacked by a paralytic affection a few months since, while occupying the position of Irish Viceroy, and was obliged to go home to recruit his shattered health. I believe there never was a kinder-hearted or a sweeter spirited man. There certainly was not one of the English nobility so generally beloved and respected; and no Lord Lieutenant of Ireland ever labored more zealously and conscientiously to benefit the country, and to reconcile the factions by which this nation is disgraced and distracted. Schools, prisons, lunatic asylums, manufactures, agriculture, were indebted to his patronage and oversight. When the British Association for the Promotion of Science, and that for the Promotion of Social Science, held their meetings in Dublin, he attended their meetings, and extended his hospitality to their members of all ranks and classes in a way which evinced his kindly nature and no ordinary moral courage; for it was directly opposed to the habits and prejudices of the order to which he belonged. He was in favor of every good cause, of every good object, and no man was ever more hostile to the institution of slavery. He cordially welcomed many of the leading Abolitionists who visited Dublin during his viceroyalty; among them I particularly remember Samuel J. May and Parker Pillsbury. When Professor Cairnes delivered his celebrated lecture on the War in America, he was present on the platform, and at its conclusion he cordially shook the Professor by the hand, and paid him very marked attention several times afterwards. His mind was highly cultivated; he was an eloquent speaker; and his account of his voyage in “Greek and Turkish Waters” is a delightful book of travels, possessing far more than temporary interest. His last visit to London was in last April, at the time of Garibaldi’s stay in London; and when the General paid his visit to the opera, he was surrounded by some of the highest of the nobility. Lord Carlisle was among the number who paid this tribute of respect to the most illustrious Italian of modern times. I do not remember any one of his rank who has attracted so much respect and affection to himself by the kindliness of his demeanor, and the possession of so many amiable qualities, as Lord Carlisle.
I take this opportunity to say, that I hope the Liberator may not be discontinued till all the slaves in the United States have reached the promised land, and until you have witnessed this blessed consummation. In the hope that it is still time for me to assist in supporting the paper, I have sent, through my friend Rev. Samuel May, a contribution in addition to my usual subscription. Miss Estlin has also requested me to say, that any money received by Mr. May from the sale of the Life of John Brown may be handed in towards the same object, as a token of her good wishes to the Liberator, and her unabated interest in the Anti Slavery cause.
I am rejoiced to learn of the safety of Captain Brown’s family in California, after all the terrible reports which reached us of the risks they ran in their passage through the State of Missouri.
I am, yours truly,
RICHARD D. WEBB.
This fresh token of friendship and anti-slavery sympathy and co-operation, at this time, on the part of Mr. Webb and Miss Estlin, is particularly gratifying. Most warmly do we concur in the tribute paid to the character and memory of the Earl of Carlise-adding thereto with great pleasure the following from the New York Tribune:-
“The Earl of Carlisle was a firm and uncompromising friend of the American cause. Every instinct of his nature revolted at the purpose of building up a Southern Confederacy on the foundation of Slavery. His clear instinct at once detected the designs of the rebels, in spite of their audacious pretensions, and never for a moment did he withhold his sympathies from our gigantic struggle for national existence. Free from the prejudices of his order, free from the arrogance of the British national character, free from the paltry conceit and malignity which too often distinguish the manners of an inferior portion of his countrymen who share and abuse the privileges of American hospitality, he was noble by nature as well as by birth, a sincere, modest, high minded man, who presented other claims on our admiration and love than that he belonged to the aristocracy of England.”
CELEBRATION OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The second anniversary of the promulgation of the Emancipation Proclamation by President Lincoln, and of the abolition of slavery in the State of Maryland, was celebrated on Monday last by the colored population of Boston and vicinity, and others interested in the welfare of the African race. The celebration of the day was introduced by religious services held in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac street, at 10 12 o’clock. The afternoon and evening sessions were held in the Tremont Temple, and these were largely attended. Among the speakers were Rev. J. V. Himes, Messrs. Reed and Oliver, Dr. J. B. Smith, Rev. James Sims, Hon. Henry Wilson, Rev. A. A. Miner, D. D., Rev. Gilbert Haven, George Thompson, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Rev. Mr. White, and Robert Morris, Esq.
The Shaw Guards (14th Unattached Company of Infantry, M. V. M.), under the command of Capt. Lewis Gaul, paraded in honor of the day. They turned out with full ranks, accompanied by the Boston Cornet Band, and made a fine appearance.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS. We shall be reluctantly obliged to erase from our subscription list, on the 1st of March next, the names of such subscribers as shall at that time be indebted for the volume of the Liberator from Jan. 1, 1864, to Jan.1, 1865.
<c04>
ADDRESS TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
DEPUTATION TO THE AMERICAN MINISTER.
A numerous and influential deputation from the Emancipation Society waited upon the Hon. C. F. Adams, the American Minister, on Thursday afternoon, Dec. 15, at his residence in Portland-place, in London, to present to his excellency, for transmission to the United States, an address congratulating President Lincoln on his re-election. The deputation consisted of the following gentlemen: Mr. William Evans, (chairman of the society,) Sir Charles Lyell, Bart., M. P. A. Taylor, M. P., Mr. Thomas Hughes, (of Lincoln’s Inn,) Mr. S. Lucas, Mr. J. M. Ludlow, Professor F. W. Newman, the Rev. Dr. Brock, the Hon. and Rev. Baptist W. Noel, M.A., Mr. B. Scott, (chamberlain of London.) M. Victor Schoelcher, (formerly Under Minister of Marine in the French Provisional Government,) Mr. James M’Henry, Mr. Cunningham Borthwick, the Revs. J. W. Massie, D.D, J. Burns, D. D. J. W, Bayley, D.D., J. S. Jones, incumbent of Christ church, Liverpool; W. D.Corkren, (Brentford.) J. C. Gallaway, M. A., T. Jones, (Blackheath,) and Dawson Burns, Dr. Frederick Tomkins, (Temple.) Mr. W. T. Malleson, Treasurer, and Mr. F. W. Chesson, hon. secretary of the society; Mr. H. J. Slack, F.G.S., Alderman Towle, (Oxford,) Mr. J. Cunnington, (Brentford,) and Messrs. J. A. Nicholay, John Gorrie, Mason Jones, C. H. Elt, W. Johnson, (Cambridge,) R. Hill (Bedford,) George Newman, T. Cooke (Leicester,) G. J. Holyoake, F. M. Edge, R. Hannah, E.Wainewright, G. Dornbusch, R. W. Biggs, (Devizes,) John Moore, W. Farmer, J. A. Horner, John Frost, F. Wright, W. E. Dawes, T. Hattersley, and many others.
Mr. WILLIAM EVANS, addressing Mr. Adams, said:
Sir, I have the honor, as chairman of the Emancipation Society, to request you to do us the favor of transmitting to President Lincoln an address which has been unanimously agreed to by the society, congratulating him on his election a second time as President of the United States. Perhaps it would not be proper for us ordinarily to interfere in a matter which has reference to the internal affairs of the United States, but there is a significance in Mr. Lincoln’s election which takes it out of the category of ordinary events.
You are all aware that we have taken a zealous, active, and important part in the emancipation of the negro. By example, by enormous sacrifices, by diplomacy, and by every other means in our power, we have endeavored to rouse the sentiment of the world to the horrors of slavery. We believe that the example of this country has been the means of inducing in your own countrymen what we consider a sound and wise view of this question, and has awakened the conscience of the North on this subject. The awakened feeling of the North on the subject has driven the slaveholders to rebellion, and that is really the whole cause of the war. (Hear, hear.) The election of Mr. Lincoln, under such circumstances, we regard as an endorsement by the people of the United States of that policy which we conceive to be so important. We have seen, with the greatest satisfaction, the reelection of Mr. Lincoln; we feel that it is a great step in the right direction. We sympathize deeply with the sufferings of the people of the United States. They are undergoing great trials, which we believe to be in the world’s cause; but we feel confident that success will crown all their efforts. We have much pleasure in asking that their address may be transmitted through you, than whom a better friend to the two countries does not exist. (Cheers.)
Mr. F. W. CHESSON, the hon. secretary, then read the following address, adopted by the Emancipation Society for presentation to Mr. Lincoln:
“To His Excellency ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States of America:
SIR,-We, the President and Members of the Emancipation Society, with profound respect for your person and for your office, congratulate you upon your re-election as President of the United States of America.
Your first election marked you out as the freely chosen leader of the people, for the express and avowed purpose of resisting the encroachments of the Slave Power; and we rejoice that, after four years’ experience, your countrymen have again determined that you shall act as their chief magistrate for another term of office, in order that the hateful institution of slavery may be entirely abolished.
We agree with those who elected you, in their deductions that ‘slavery was the cause of the rebellion’ it is your duty to quell; that it ‘must be hostile to the principles of Republican Government; and that both ‘justice and national safety demand its extirpation’; and we at the same time feel confident that whilst vigorously conducting the remaining operations of the war, so as to accomplish this high purpose, your administration will be guided, as it has hitherto been, by an earnest desire to mitigate the sufferings inseparable from a condition of strife. We have noticed with peculiar satisfaction the sanction and aid given by your Government to the voluntary efforts of the Sanitary Commission, whose agents have not confined their beneficent action to their own party in the struggle; but have bestowed the greatest care and attention upon the sick and wounded rebels who have fallen into your hands.
We deplore the loss of valuable life in the protracted conflict which the slaveholders have forced upon your country; but it is an honor to you and to your fellow-citizens, that no prisoners have been put to death for the mere fact of being taken in arms against your Government; and we have faith that you will continue to show all possible mercy and forbearance to the enemies of your republic, and thus leave to your contemporaries and to posterity the grateful task of placing your moderation in noble contrast with the deplorable and sanguinary ferocity exhibited by European despots towards those whom their cruelty has driven torevolt.
That your exertions may shorten the duration of the war, and that your country, thoroughly purged and purified from the crime and curse of slavery, and with every citizen, without regard to race or color, standing in perfect equality before the law, may enjoy internal happiness, and exert a useful and wide-spread influence for the advancement of liberty and the general good of mankind, is the wish and prayer of your sincere friends.
(Signed,) WILLIAM EVANS, Chairman.
P. A. TAYLOR, Treasurers.
W. T. MALLESON, Treasurers.
F. W. CHESSON, Hon. Secretary.
London, December, 1864.”
Mr. P. A. TAYLOR, M.P., the treasurer of the society, then said:
I am glad to be allowed to add one word in addition to the address to President Lincoln, and to the observations of the chairman. We are certainly here today under somewhat exceptional circumstances. Under ordinary circumstances, if we took the course of presenting such an address to the President, we might be open to the criticism of taking an unusual if not an impertinent step; and we might almost as well expect to hear the merchants of New York meeting, and waiting upon Lord Lyons to congratulate him upon the success or failure of one of our great parties—of Lord Derby or Lord Palmerston. But we take it that these are no ordinary circumstances, and that it is no ordinary crisis through which America has been passing. A struggle of so tremendous a nature, that modern history does not afford its parallel, cannot be carried on without causing a wave of sadness and distress all over the world. We think we are in harmony with large numbers of our own countrymen, and with the best and truest of your countrymen, in rejoicing over the re-election of President Lincoln. We think we see in that re-election, first, a forecast of the entire reconstitution of the great republic; secondly, the promotion of the abolition of that system of slavery which has been the spot of disgrace upon your countrymen; and, thirdly, and as arising out of these two, we think we see in the future relations of England and America, based as those relations will be on ties of mutual esteem and respect, and on the natural sympathies of two nations looking back to a common origin and animated by common aspirations, a state of things which will tend towards the realization of peace, progress, and civilization. (Cheers.)
The Hon. and Rev. BAPTIST NOEL said:
I am very glad to express the feeling of great gratification with which I, in common with the gentlemen here, heard of the reelection of Mr. Lincoln as a tribute from the American nation to his wisdom, to his
<c05>
patriotism, to his honesty, and to his firmness. (Cheers.) It also, I think, expressed their thorough conviction that, while they were putting into his hands the powers that were necessary to bring the great rebellion to a close, they were quite confident that their domestic liberties were safe in his hands. (Hear, hear.) Their choice seems to me to be as creditable to the intelligence of the nation as it was to his virtue. It must surely exercise a powerful influence upon the counsels of the South, because the nation has taught those who are in rebellion—the leaders of that rebellion—that it is as firm and resolute to maintain its own rights as they are ardent to secure the triumph of their lawlessness. That being the case, the leaders of the rebellion—especially if the magnanimous, generous, and Christian like proposal of General Butler to include them in the amnesty, from which they would have excluded him, were adopted—would have no further grounds to sustain this struggle, except the resolute determination to commit two crimes—the crime of causeless rebellion and the crime of cruel slaveholding. I cannot but hope that the leaders themselves, when they see the equal firmness and generosity of the North, may yield to wiser feelings; and, at any rate, it is satisfactory to observe repeated and growing evidence that the non-slaveholding population of the South is not so reluctant to return to the Union, where they may enjoy liberty, fraternity, and equality, under the folds of the old flag. (Hear, hear.) Whatever may be the case in the South, it appears to us here that, by the result of that election, the nation has expressed its determination, unmoved by any advice from any quarter, by the weight of taxation and debt, by the miseries and horrors which war may engender, by any temporary military reverse, not to abandon their resolution to extinguish the rebellion—the only source by which, as it seems to many others, the cruelties of the slaveholding system can be brought to an end, and your nation secure a permanent and honorable peace to itself. (Cheers.)
Sir CHARLES LYELL, Bart.:
I did not expect to be called upon to-make any remark; but I may say that, having visited the United States several times, I feel thoroughly convinced that this is a struggle between a higher and lower civilization. (Cheers.) I have felt intense interest in the contest, and, although I have been greatly surprised at the amount of the resistance which the South has been able to show, I have never felt a doubt of the issue. Much as I deplore the suffering, the loss of life, and the blood shed caused by the war, I feel satisfied that had the North been able more readily and immediately to put down that rebellion, we should not have attained that result which this society so earnestly desires—the emancipation of the negroes in the South. I believe that result would not have been so effectively brought about as it will be in consequence of the great resistance which the South has been able to make. (Cheers.)
Rev. Dr. MASSIE next spoke, and said he had much pleasure in giving expression to a sentiment which had grown in his mind since his visit to America as the deputation of the Anti-Slavery Conference, which adopted and sent an address to the ministers of all denominations in the United States. That sentiment was, that the English and Americans were one people, though two nations. Their sympathies, their literature, their religion, and most of their laws have the same origin and the same tendency, and their union as one people, though two nations, would be of advantage to liberty not only in their own countries, but all over the world. (Hear, hear.) He was sorry to say that, from certain very ostentatious displays of literary advocacy and the sympathy which had been given to the South, there was danger of an unkindly feeling being engendered in the minds of their friends across the Atlantic; but those parties and the people who followed them did not represent the middle and working classes, the back-bone and sinew of the nation. (Hear, hear.) He had lately visited the leading towns in the North of England and in Scotland, as a deputation from the Freedmen’s Aid Society, and he had found in all the meetings which he had held that the sympathies of the people were unanimously with the North. They had hailed the re-election of Mr. Lincoln with cordial, unanimous, and indeed, enthusiastic feelings as a great blessing not only to America, but to the world. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. THOMAS HUGHES:
I am delighted to take this opportunity, or any other, of testifying my deep and intense sympathy with the cause of law, of freedom, and of righteousness, which I believe to be the cause of the North. I have also great pleasure in taking this and any other occasion of testifying my hearty admiration of the noble simplicity and grand steadfastness of purpose of President Lincoln.
Rev. Dr. BROCK said that the moral spectacle presented by the election of Mr. Lincoln would be for admiration throughout all generations. When they recollected the prognostications that he would certainly be beaten—when they saw the efforts that were made to defeat him—his triumph was significant and complete; and when they recollected that everything was done in a peaceful and constitutional manner, and that upon Mr. Lincoln’s election there did not rest a blot such as there did upon some elections with which they were familiar—(hear, hear)—they had reason to thank God, and take courage. (Hear, hear.)
Dr. FREDERICK TOMKINS said he had accompanied Dr. Massie as the deputation of the Freedman’s Aid Society, and he could bear out his statement as to the universal sympathy of the working classes, in the places they had visited, with the cause of the North and abolition.
Rev. Mr. JONES, who represented the Liverpool Emancipation Society, said that that society had to fight one of the hardest battles and moral campaigns in which they had ever been engaged in this country, and the result of which he ventured to say was highly satisfactory. He believed that nowhere more than in Liverpool would the election of Mr. Lincoln have a marvellous effect. He believed that Liverpool society was rapidly developing into two classes—those who had always had a latent sympathy with slavery, and with whom morally they had nothing to do; and those who had always had a latent sympathy with freedom, of whom the great majority, if not the whole, will soon be convinced that the cause of freedom was identified with the cause of union. (Cheers.) Mr. Lincoln’s re-election had exercised a powerful effect on the public mind; and in the future relations of Liverpool and the United States it would be found that nowhere more than there was the conviction rooted that the cause of freedom and the cause of union were one.
Mr. MASON JONES said he could confirm the observations of preceding speakers as to the feelings of the working classes on this question. He had addressed meetings in Manchester, Liverpool, and other towns, and he had found without exception that the working classes were in favor of the North. He regretted to say, however, that while the hearts were generally on the side of the North, the pockets were generally on the side of the South; the men with the fustian jackets were in favor of liberty, and those with black coats were generally in favor of slavery (A laugh.) He hoped that, in the further construction of the Union, there would be no compromise with the Slave Power; that the Conservative party in the North would not be allowed to dictate to Mr. Lincoln; that slavery would not only be abolished, but that the negro would be invested with full political freedom; and that there would be throughout the Union one indivisible liberty for all, of whatever race and color.
Dr. BURNS wished to point out that the President had been elected under different circumstances this time to what he was formerly. Then he was elected to be chief magistrate to both North and South, but this time he was not tied by political bonds to act otherwise than as his noble head and his large heart might direct him.
<c06>
MR. J. A. NICHOLAY, as one largely familiar with the opinions of large masses of the working classes, wished to add his testimony to their universal feeling in favor of the cause of union and emancipation. He expressed his belief that the expression of public feeling, which was inaugurated by the great Exeter Hall meeting and followed by the St. James’s Hall and other meetings, had had a very powerful effect, and had preserved the country from serious complications.
His Excellency Mr. Adams made the following reply:
Mr. Chairman and gentlemen,—I receive the address which you are pleased to commit to my care with great satisfaction. Coming as it does from an association of such respectability in this kingdom, it cannot fail to be regarded in America as a strong proof of the friendly interest taken by a considerable portion of the English people in the welfare of the United States, whilst passing through her great perils. This will do great good. For I cannot disguise from myself or from you the fact, that an opposite disposition has been manifested here in very influential circles, and that the knowledge of this has given rise to a general impression among my countrymen that the whole British nation really desires the disruption and consequent downfall of the power of the United States. Hence has sprung up a corresponding degree of ill will which bids fair, if not counteracted, only to increase with time. If such passions be permitted a full indulgence between two nations, it needs little sagacity to foretell that, in the long run, the end is war. Very fortunately or us all in the present case, the demonstrations already made by yourselves, and many other associations whose friendly communications from various portions of the kingdom I am now continually receiving for transmission to America, will enable those who value the blessings of peace and international amity to prove that, whatever may be the hostility of some, it is by no means shared by the greater number of the British people, and ought not to be presumed to be a national impression. (Cheers.) Permit me, gentlemen, further to observe that the election to which you refer in your address has drawn out as full and general an expression of the opinion of the whole people of the region in which it has taken place as has ever been the case in the most peaceful times. Never was a canvass more perfectly free, nor more latitude taken in the discussion of public questions and of the character of public men. Under these circumstances, it is needless to point out to you how mistaken have been the ideas of some, that any essential variations has taken place in the general operation of free institutions in all that portion of the United States (constituting much the greatest part) not immediately the theatre of the war. (Cheers.) I would further beg leave to call your attention to two points which the history of the late election appears clearly to establish. The first is the practical impossibility of making any effective separation of the personal and political interests of the two sections of America now involved in this deplorable struggle. This is indubitably shown by the fact, that at no time in our history has so direct and persistent an effort at interference to control the event of the election of President been made by the people of the insurgent States as upon this last occasion, whilst-they profess—and doubtless honestly—their desire to separate themselves wholly from it. The notorious projects devised by some of their agents at Niagara Falls in the autumn, followed as they were by the nomination at Chicago of a candidate for the Presidency committed to a policy dictated by that portion of the people well known to be in sympathy, if not in absolute communication with them, furnish evidence enough of this truth, if the same were not confirmed by the regrets unequivocally expressed by certain prominent leaders in the Southern States, at the failure of their expectations from that nomination. This shows that whatever might be the sincerity with which either portion of the country might act, in the supposition that it should consent to pledge itself to a complete separation, the fact that the political interests of the two are inextricably intertwined will, under every possible circumstance, render all such promises in practice futile and void. The second point to which I would advert is naturally suggested by the first. It is this—that the only real question of difference between the two parties in the election was that which directly involved the interests of the slaveholding insurgents much more than those of the loyal states. (Cheers) The nomination at Chicago rested on an implied, if not express engagement, to protect domestic slavery so far as not to make it a question in any plan of pacification and restoration of the Union. (Hear, hear) The policy of the Government, on the other hand, was well understood to be a restoration of the Union as a primary object, but the settlement of the slave question as a necessary preliminary to a durable re-establishment of peace. If this be a correct statement of the issue, it can be no cause of surprise to find the insurgents straining every nerve to bring about a result favorable to their interests. It was, then, the fate of slavery that made the turning point in the great decision to be made by the people of the United States on this occasion. If this be so, the result is one in which we may be permitted all to rejoice in common. It has continued a Government which has already done much towards emancipation in the progress of the war, and might be depended upon to go on doing still more, in proportion as matters should approach more nearly the great end of its perfect work. (Hear, hear.) I will conclude, then, with the expression of a hope that, without regard to national distinction, all good men may have cause to rejoice in the termination of this melancholy struggle, if that end be at once the confirmation of a free government in America, and the eradication of the most formidable evil with which its progress has been heretofore cursed. (Loud cheers)
The following letter was received from Mr. Karl Blind:—
“London, Dec, 15.
“Dear Sir,-Though unable to take part in the presentation to which your honoring letter invites me, I am with all my sympathies on the side of the Union and Emancipation cause.
Had the secret favorers of the South carried the election, the onward course of the Republican armies would have been checked by treacherous intrigue; and the result would probably have been a renewed compromise with principles which, from their very nature, ought forever to be placed out of the pale of humanity.
The sound sense and energetic will of the American people have nipped the intrigue in the bud. All true freemen throughout Europe rejoice that free Government, free popular education, free labor have carried the day. The representatives of millions of Germans in the United States have voted in this sense. A hundred thousand Germans have fought for the same cause on the Transatlantic battle fields. Our native country at this moment rings with joy at the triumph of civilization and liberty over barbarism and aristocratic assumption. It trusts that the victory of the American Republic will prove an auspicious event for the emancipation of European nations.
Let us hope that the powerful decision of November 8th will imbue the American leaders with a resolution not to cease in their exertions until the very base of Southern Society be changed by free colonization; and “States rights,” that last line of defence of the oligarchs, be replaced by the superior rights of humanity.
Yours faithfully, KARL BLIND.
“F. W Chesson, Esq., Hon. Secretary to the Emancipation Society.”
Joseph and Ruth Dugdale, from Iowa, are now making a religious visit to the prisons and freed people in Maryland, and sometimes holding meetings for children, which are largely attended. A very interesting letter from our beloved friend Dugdale, in reference to what he has already seen and heard during this visit, may be found in another column. We hope to hear from him again.
MERCANTILE LIBRARY ASSOCIATION. Rev. E. H. CHAPIN, D. D. will deliver the next lecture before this Association, on Wednesday evening, Jan. 11th, at Music Hall. Before the lecture, there will be given an organ concert by W. Eugene Thayer. Concert at 7 o’clock—lecture at 73/4 o’clock.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTER FROM JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
Near BALTIMORE, (Free) Maryland, 
12mo. 24th, 1864.
BELOVED FRIEND, WM. L. GARRISON–It was the privilege of my dear wife and self to be in Maryland when the proclamation of freedom was made. The roar of cannon, because of its association with the destruction of human life, was always distasteful to me. On this occasion its reverberations, mingled with the chime of bells, were grateful to my ears, because they were heralds of liberty to the slave.
On the morning of the proclamation, it was our privilege to be seated at the breakfast table of our venerable friend JOHN NEEDLES, with his wife and several of his children, and other guests. It was an occasion, like the blooming of the Ceres, to be long remembered. Our dear friend seemed to us like a second Simeon; and as we sat around the table, the voice of thanksgiving to the God of the oppressed mingled with our tears of gratitude. Our visit to this State was from an impression of religious duty. Among the series of meetings we have held, several have been for the freed people.
Our meetings among the colored people, both in Baltimore and Washington, were largely attended. We were delighted to find them receiving the boon of freedom for themselves, and their people, in such a beautiful, calm, Christian spirit. They certainly possess a large religious nature, and have more of the forgiving temper of Christ than the Anglo-Saxon race.
Our dear friends, John and Mary Needles, accompanied us to one of the meetings at the Sharp Street Church. The services were opened by a few impressive remarks from him. The house is large and tasteful; but, what was better than all, the auditory was one of the most respectable in appearance that we had seen.
The currents of air–that we breathe here-seem freighted with freedom now.
Our friend, J. N., related to us an anecdote of a lordly slaveholder, who, some years ago, went North; and while there, his chattel breathed air that gave him some new ideas, and his first lesson in astronomy was to follow the North Star. The discomfited claimant came home minus of the man, and indignantly exclaimed, “It is abominable to think of it! A man, made in the image of God, to be deprived of his servants, and have to wait on himself!”
At the Bethel, on Saratoga street, we found their place of worship much larger, and everything about it in most excellent taste––-even the seats cushioned, from the platform to the door. The minister, an interesting man, stated to us that the edifice would seat 1500 persons. If these people, under the despotic slave code of Maryland, could secure such places as these temples of worship, what may they not accomplish under the new dispensation of liberty?
This day was foreseen by seers in olden time. Among them was John Woolman, who, on the first of the 4th month, 1740, at five o’clock in the morning, wrote in his journal-“ I have seen in the light of the Lord, that the day is approaching when the man that is the most wise in human policy shall be the greatest fool, and the arm that is mighty to support injustice shall be broken to pieces. The enemies of righteousness shall make a terrible rattle, and shall mightily torment one another; for He that is Omnipotent is rising up to judgment, and will plead the cause of the oppressed; and He commanded me to open the vision.”
At the close of a large meeting in their meeting-house in Washington city, a fine-looking young man desired to speak briefly. He was a brother of our gifted friend Anna. E. Dickinson, and offered his services to teach evening schools among the freed people. Our mission is not only to these people, but to penitentiaries and prisons, meetings for children, houses of refuge, orphan asylums, homes for the friend less, the blind, &c., all of which we have visited.
While in the Gun Powder settlement, where we had an interesting meeting in the Friends’ meeting-house for the freed people, the spacious residence of Gorsuch was pointed out to us. We are glad to learn that his son voted for the free Constitution. The world moves.
In the Sandy Spring settlement, after we had concluded our services in a crowded meeting, a colored man bowed in prayer; and I never heard such fervor, such pathos and devotion of spirit, such meekness and forgiveness of injuries, compressed into so few words, in all my life before.
When we were in the penitentiary, in solemn meeting with the prisoners, I could not forget that among them were thirteen men, incarcerated for sheltering fugitives from slavery. If the law could have grasped us, we should have shared a similar fate. We remembered the martyr Torrey, who, within these walls, was suffered to wear the stripes of a felony for obeying the precepts of our Redeemer.
To our meeting in the jail-which, by the way, is a new and artistic edifice-we were accompanied by several persons; among them Nathan Tyson, the son of Elisha Tyson, the great-hearted abolitionist of olden. time. He pointed to the place where the old jail once stood, in which a young man was locked up, who took for his motto the incendiary words, “My country is the world, my countrymen all mankind.”
We have just heard of the translation of THOMAS WHITSON. He was a dear friend of ours, and we had hoped, ere we returned to our home in the prairies, to have grasped his hand, and broken bread at his table. He was a man of wonderful natural genius; without scholastic education; could floor any antagonist that ventured to grapple with him; and yet was gentle as a little child, and deeply imbued with faith in the power of love to save the world. Peace to his memory! He did not live to see slavery dead; but, thanks be to God, he saw its back broken.
Our interview with Abraham Lincoln was one to be remembered by us. We were indebted to the gentlemanly politeness of Isaac Newton, the Commissioner of Agriculture, for it, unsought for on our part. The President moves slowly, but the interview confirmed our convictions that he is an honest man, possessed of a religious spirit, and feels the tremendous responsibilities of his position. The closing words of his message has the true ring. Let us all work and pray until slavery is utterly destroyed.
We did not see our old friend, Sojourner Truth. This we regretted.
It would seem a state of things similar to that existing in our country was seen in the visions of the prophet Daniel-“And the king of the South shall be moved with choler, and shall come forth, and fight with him, even the king of the North; and he shall set forth a great multitude, but the multitude shall be given into his hand. For the king of the North shall return, and shall set forth a multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come, after certain years, with a great army, and with much riches* * * *and the army of the South shall not withstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any strength to withstand. And at the time of the end shall the king of the South push at him; and the king of the North shall come against him like a whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow, and pass over. And I heard, but I understood not: and then said I, O Lord, what shall be the end of these things? And he said, Go thy way, Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed until the time of the end.” [11th and 12th chapters of Daniel.]
Our beloved friends in this blessed cause of freedom are, one by one, passing away. I do rejoice that thou hast been permitted to live until this day, to see the desire of thy soul so near being satisfied. May the work of reformation go on, and may slavery be exterminated utterly! May we have a free and undivided country, and may peace at last spread its wings over us, is the desire of
Thy affectionate friend,
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
Rebel papers say that Mosby is seriously if not fatally wounded, having been twice shot through the abdomen.
<c02>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK NO XXIV.
NEW YORK, Dec. 29,1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
On the 19th of this month, the House of Representatives adopted, by a vote of 118 to 8, the following resolution offered by Henry Winter Davis:-
Resolved, That Congress has a Constitutional right to an authoritative voice in declaring and prescribing the foreign policy of the United States, as well as in the recognition of new powers, and other things; and is the Constitutional duty of the Executive department to respect that policy, not less in diplomatic negotiations than in the use of the national force when authorized by law.”
The almost unanimous support thus given to so explicit a proposition implies much greater clearness than I apprehend pertains to the case in hand; and not without reason did Mr. Boutwell of your State choose to abide with the minority, rather than commit himself to a very doubtful assertion. The question is not whether Congress ought, in a proper ordination of the Republic, to have an authoritative voice in its foreign policy, but whether it has actually the right of dictation conferred upon it by the Constitution; for such is the qualified phraseology of the resolution. Now, this right is nowhere affirmed in the Constitution, and must be derived, if at all, from one or more of these powers: “to regulate commerce with foreign nations; to declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and water”: the only dealings with other nations to which Congress-that is, both Houses-is admitted. The Executive, on his part, is empowered, “by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur”; in the same way, “to nominate and appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls”; and lastly, “to receive ambassadors and other public ministers.” From this enumeration it is evident that the Executive alone is directly concerned with foreign nations; that he controls the country’s representatives abroad, by appointment and instruction, that he cannot affect trade, nor declare war; but that he initiates treaties, which are a sort of permanent foreign policy. His authority, compared with that of Congress, seems more extensive, and, what is especially note worthy, more constant. It must be independent, too, of any session of that body, in order to meet the current contingencies of international intercourse; and it is, at all events, co-ordinate if not superior.
Mr. Davis is notoriously a leading champion of the Monroe Doctrine, and engineered at the last session the resolution concerning Mexico, for which Mr. Seward apologized to the French Government. This action of the Secretary of State inspired the present resolution. But what is the history of the Monroe Doctrine? It is partly written on its face. Mr. Monroe was its author-the Executive, not Congress. Mr. Rush, minister to England in 1823, sought in advance to commend this doctrine to Mr. Canning. The President enunciated it in his message of December 2d, in the same year. The people sustained him-following, not having dictated, as is shown by the nomenclature which has lasted to this day. Here was the declaration of a policy the most important and far-reaching that ever emanated from this nation, and yet it originated with the Executive, was never questioned as transcending his powers, and is now insisted by Winter Davis to be the authoritative voice of the Republic! Mr. Webster, speaking in 1826, said that “this declaration of Mr. Monroe was wise, reasonable, and patriotic,” and that he had understood that “it was considered, weighed, and distinctly approved by every one of the President’s advisers at that period. It met with the entire concurrence and hearty approbation of the country.” Mark the terms of sequence-concurrence, approbation. Mr. Edward Livingston called it “a pledge to the world.” Jefferson, comparing it with the Declaration of Independence, said: “That [the latter] made us a nation; this sets our compass, and points the course which we are to steer through the ocean of time.” What an expression of the extent to which the Executive had mortgaged the purpose and honor of the nation!
Next of the recognition of new powers. In the case of the South American republics, in 1822, the House of Representatives passed a resolution, January 30, calling for information in regard to them. Mr. Clay argued in favor of recognition during February. Before the close of the session, the House adopted a declaration of interest in the cause of South American independence, and pledged its support of the President in his measures. In his Message of the 8th of March, the President announced his own persuasion that the time for acknowledgment had arrived, and “could no longer be withheld.” Then the House made the necessary appropriations. Here we witness, in the midst of the strongest desires and the most decided convictions, no imperious assumption of authority by either branch of Congress, but a simple expression of earnest preference, and a confession of subordination in the promise to sustain the proceedings of the Executive.
The second part of Mr. Davis’s resolution was to this effect:
“And the propriety of any declaration of any foreign policy by Congress Is sufficiently proved by the vote which pronounces it; and such proposition, while pending and undetermined, is not a fit topic for diplomatic explanation with any foreign power.”
Every Copperhead member, save two, voted for this declaration-from a very intelligible motive. There were 58 union votes against, to 21 union votes for it. There is no need, therefore, to discuss this as I did the foregoing.
Gen. Sherman made of Savannah a Christmas gift to the President. It is confidently expected that Congress, immediately on reassembling, will make a surpassing New Year’s gift to Mr. Lincoln and the nation. Nothing less than the Amendment of the Constitution.
The World argues that slavery has become a dead issue for the Democratic party-their hope of spoils lies in fresh grounds of difference, which they ought to be discovering. Yet it advises the Democratic members of Congress to vote against the amendment. The gentlemen thus addressed have reached the conclusion of the World, but, balancing between their record in the past and their chances in the future, they will dodge if convenient the call of ayes and noes upon the doom of slavery. So the opposition will be light. Some timid souls are troubled lest the three- fourths of the loyal states, being fewer than three-fourths of the Union as it was, cannot give sanction to any Constitutional amendment. Let them inquire by what tenure, then, Mr. Lincoln holds his office for a second term, when not a revolted state participated in the late election. The loyalty of the nation is ever a quorum.
Reconstruction, too, is close at hand. To the best of my information, Louisiana will be recognized as a restored State in statu quo-on condition that every other returning State shall be erected on a basis which ignores color. Remembering that the exclusion of the colored man from suffrage in Louisiana was not enacted without provision for his admission hereafter, if public sentiment demands the change, we may be grateful enough for this prospect. It is true, these anomalous exceptions are unjust, undemocratic, foolish. Mr. Phillips, speaking here on Tuesday at Cooper Institute, made us insensible of the lapse of time in pointing out the danger of imperfect liberty permitted in a single community. I should be more alarmed on this score, if I did not reflect that Louisiana, will not be behind Illinois in its legislation for the blacks; and that when the days of slavery are fairly numbered, the prejudices which it engendered will perish in quick succession, and the dawn of human brotherhood begin.
I write in the Old Year, but yon will print me in the New. The twelvemonth just expiring has been a remarkable period, and will be forever conspicuous in the annals of the war and of the States. To it belong: in legislation-the repeal of the fugitive slave acts, the abolition of the coast-wise slave-trade, the admission of colored testimony in the United States
<c03>
courts, and the equal payment of colored troops; in battle-such achievements as are summed up in the words Atlanta, Richmond, Savannah, Mobile, Nashville, the Shenandoah, the “Alabama,” the “Florida,” and the “Georgia”; in politics-the reelection of Mr. Lincoln; in social revolutions-the conversion of Maryland from a slave State to a free. It will be difficult for 1865 to eclipse its predecessor, which, even now, has two more days in which to extend the above brilliant list. Yet we shall expect of the New Year greater edicts from the Capitol, more conclusive victories in the field, and vaster changes in the social systems of half the Union. Presidential elections of course come only at stated intervals, and accident distinguishes the years upon which they fall. Have we not reason for believing the rebellion is withering to a speedy end, and that, a January hence, the war concluded, we shall see
-“universal peace,
Lie like a shaft of light across the land,
And like a lane of beams athwart the sea,
Through all the circle of the golden year”?
To this vision I trust it is destined that the Liberator will be preserved. I know this to be the Pisgah’s height of its ambition.
M. DU PAYS.

LETTER FROM CHAPLAIN J. H. FOWLER.
HILTON HEAD, Dec. 24, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
Waiting for transportation in the crowded “Port Royal House,” I know not how I can better spend an evening hour than in writing to you.
These are stirring times here. Sherman’s successful expedition; the arrival here of many of his officers and men, whose time has more than expired; also, of forty-seven officers, escaped with three hundred others lately from Columbia, S. C.; the “Pocotaligo” expedition; the arrival of boats with news of Thomas’s glorious successes; these are facts of exciting interest. Out of them I propose to cull a few incidents, which, as an abolitionist, you will be most interested to know, and may not readily obtain through the ordinary channels.
Sherman’s Expedition, which has brought up in Savannah, has greatly reduced the almost exhausted resources of the South. It has destroyed railroads, mules, horses, provisions,-carried along thousands of able-bodied, productive men, “demoralizing” tens of thousands of others, and convincing the rebels that the gathered up militia from the remains of a many times conscripted people can make no successful resistance to such an army of veterans as Sherman has, and that no town in the Confederacy can hold out long against the combined efforts of our forces thus purposed to devastate, besiege, and storm. The army of Sherman, by virtue of its long series of successes, its excellent health and veteran experience, as well as its influence on the rebels, may be considered invincible against any possible force the rebels can concentrate this side of Richmond. And Grant spoke not only from his own conviction, but from the universal belief, North and South, when, in reply to the question, “Where are you going next, General Sherman?” he said, “Where I’m of a mind to.” Yes, he will go where he chooses. The whole South is open to him; and his soldiers are as ready for a start to Charleston or Augusta to-morrow, as they were on the 12th of last month for Savannah. They are more eager for it. At Augusta, and Georgia is ours-the gunboats holding the river. At Charleston and Columbia, the whole State is laid waste; for he himself is said to admit that his boys can never be controlled in South Carolina. Then, when united with Butler from Wilmington, where is Lee? Shut up completely by our combined forces, or coming out of Richmond demoralized by the fact of Grant behind him, Sheridan and Butler on his flanks, and Sherman in his front. A splendid little Spring campaign job!
But I must not speculate, when you have enough civilians at home to do it so well. The facts for an abolitionist are what I purposed to state. It is uncertain, as yet, how many colored people Gen. Sherman has permitted to come along with him. Some say twenty, some fifteen, some ten thousand. He has a large number, but perhaps one quarter of those who desired to come. It is well known that he and many of his officers do not favor collecting them largely into the army. They were not encouraged; they were rather, as a general thing, discouraged, and often forcibly prevented coming along with his army. Several times the pontoons were taken up before they could get over them, leaving those who could not find means of their own to cross to go back, or fall victims to the brutal raid of the rebel forces as they came up full of cowardly rage. “Damn you,” said the guards many times to the black men captured with me, “you are just such fellows as I like to kill.” Unarmed negroes, negro women and children, who have followed the train of their supposed deliverers to the brink of a deep river which they are not permitted to pass, are just such people as the rebels like to kill. They slaughtered hundreds of them on the Weldon railroad, where Wheeler’s raid ended. Whenever they come up with the fleeing or the returning negroes, they shoot them down as wild beasts. Negroes are “not worth” to them now; they have “no use for them” when they run away to the Yankees. And when it comes to this, they want to kill them. “Well,” said the Sergeant, who conducted me to Richmond, “if these niggers are set free, we’ll just turn in, and kill’ em all.” “Kill’em all” is the final argument for the free negro. “Kill ’‘em all” is what they seek to do with those unarmed fugitives from bondage that fall again into their hands. They would have done this to the armed, as they declared at first, had they dared; but they have backed down from this; and I believe, after a year’s imprisonment and careful inquiry, they have not even had the courage to put a single captured soldier into the slavery of his former master. But we do not claim protection for the recaptured men, women and children, declared to be citizens of the United States. They may enslave or kill them with impunity, if they are outside of the army. Hence the cowardly creatures go at it with a relish peculiar to themselves.
No cruelty can be greater than to allow these people to follow the trains of our army, and then take up a pontoon between us and them, leaving them to fall into the hands of pursuing rebels, as did some of the officers of Sherman’s army.
Such incidents are best appreciated when narrated at the same time with facts in the experience of our returned prisoners, who were almost entirely dependent upon the negroes in rebeldom for guidance, food and shelter, which they have never yet in a single instance withheld, but have often cheerfully granted at the greatest risk of their own lives. Said one of them, today, “No man who has escaped from a rebel prison can help being an abolitionist.” No matter what may be a prisoner’s views of the negro, or of his rights; there is not a man in rebel hands, who, if escaped, would not instinctively go to the negro, and shun the white man. He knows that the former is his friend, and will help him. He expects not help but betrayal from the other. Sometimes disappointed in the latter, he is never in the former.
“The negroes throughout the South understand this whole thing better than we do,” said one of the escaped prisoners to-day, using the exact words I heard from ex-Governor Hamilton, of Texas, and expressing a fact which it requires but little contact with them to establish. “They understood it at the beginning better than I did,” said Gen. Hamilton. “Every negro in rebeldom makes our cause his cause, and the cause of God. They think the war is for them; and, of course, they will do all they can for an escaped Union prisoner.” Said one just in from Columbia, speaking of the negroes with Sherman, “Last night, I said, you officers of Sherman’s army do not believe much in the negro.” “Don’t we? We have more faith in them and have better negro troops than any of you here. They are better, and do better fighting, than any of your eastern negroes,” replied a western captain. “We do not believe in putting them in to
<c04>
fill up state quotas. We believe those ought to be filled with the people of the several states at home, and leave them for the United States. But as to useing them, we believe in it. They will stand longer in a fort than any other class of troops.” And then he instanced several cases where they were surrendered by officers against their urgent desires. The negro will never surrender. He will sometimes break and run; so will veteran whites.
In this department there are more negro soldiers than whites, and they mingle together without any apparent prejudice. I have seen squads drill together, parties playing, conversing, eating, working, worshiping, doing everything men do, black and white, as equals. How different two years ago, when we were mobbed for attempting to recruit the 1st Rg’t S. C. Vols. at Hilton Head!
Last Sunday evening, I preached to the colored people in a fine church they have built at Mitchelville, a perfectly free village of 3,000 colored people in South Carolina. What remarkable changes in their whole condition! Two years ago, they were dressed in dirty, ragged clothes; now they are cleanly, neatly, handsomely dressed. Then they were housed in huts and poor barracks; now each family has its own comfortable house and garden well fenced, many of which are owned by them-all of them having land outside the town to cultivate, and plenty of work for the Government. “What will they do when the war is over?” Rev. Mr. Murchison, colored preacher and mayor, replied, “Go out into the land, and make their homes there, as many are doing now.” They can buy 20 acres of land now for $50. This is what should be: once settled on his 20 acres, and no one can oppress the negro hereafter. But without land, all the teaching, all the philanthropy, all the Christianity of the world cannot save him from the oppression of his selfish neighbor, who holds the means of bread in his own hands.
Truly yours, J. H. FOWLER.

THE THIRTY-FIRST NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY was organized for the immediate and total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted, “without compromise and without concealment,” for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvellous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States, and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS’ REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation everywhere should the American Anti Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long-desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time-Let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the “self-evident truths” enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence!
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Maria Child,
Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May,
Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Henrietta Sargent,
Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison
Elizabeth von Arnim
Sarah Shaw Russell,
Abby H. Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May,
Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene,
Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw,
Sarah H. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer,
Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker,
Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam,
Abby Francis,
Mattie Griffith,
Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson,
Katharine Earle Farnum,
Evelina A. Smith,
Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford,
Ellen Wright Garrison.
Caroline M. Severance.
As Mrs. Child’s post office address is at Way-land, she requests that contributions to the approaching Anti-Slavery Anniversary, sent previous to the day of meeting, may be directed to one of the ladies residing in Boston, or to the Treasurer, (Mr. BOW-DITCH,) as above.
The presidential vote of 1864 will reach in the aggregate about four millions. The actual returns up to this time amount to 3,957,702, which are divided as follows:
Abraham Lincoln,
2,182,502
George Briton McClellan
1,775,200
Majority for Lincoln,
407,302
The majority for President Lincoln in all the States entitled to vote may be stated with truth at four hundred and fifty thousand.
The complete returns from twenty-one States in the last Presidential election, as compared with the vote of 1860, show an increase of 291,643 votes. If there be added to this the number of soldiers from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois and California, who, while away from their homes, were prevented by the laws of their States from exercising the right of voting, and also the increase in the number of voters in the organized Territories, the aggregate increase would certainly be no less than four hundred thousand. This is a remarkable proof of the steady progress of the North in population, notwithstanding the ravages of a great war.
<c05>
THE GRAND BATTLE AT WILMINGTON.
We do not admit the repulse at Wilmington at a defeat, for we believe that the attack on Fort Fisher, the monstrous earthwork that defends the city, is not abandoned. But it is well to concede the truth to our foes, and confess that, if they did not win a victory, they have prevented one. Wilmington remains the great rebel port of entry, but it is no longer safe to the blockade runner, for the siege has begun. It is a national disappointment that it was not reduced at once by the mighty navy that a few days since sailed from Hampton Roads, after months of preparation. The plan was excellent It was known that the garrison was not large, but that the immense strength of the fortifications multiplied the numerical force tenfold. The concentrated fire of six hundred and sixty seven guns from the fleet, it was thought, would crush the defence, and enable four or five thousand men to storm the works with comparative ease. And the supposition was sound. On Tuesday, the 20th inst. Fort Fisher was garrisoned by two companies of local troops. On the evening of the 24th, two divisions from Lee’s army were poured into the works. This reinforcement saved the city. The great torpedo boat exploded; it shook the heavens and sea; the earth trembled, but the walls of the fort were not broken. The fleet, splendidly and bravely manceuvred, silenced the rebel guns with an overwhelming weight of iron, but the fort still defied us. The troops behaved gallantly. They were filled with enthusiasm. A braver assault was never made, and the rebel colors were torn from the parapet. But they could not take the take, garrisoned with a small army. Admiral Porter seems to have believed that with more energy in the land assault the entire attack might been successful. But of this it is now impossible to judge. It is enough that our land forces and the fleet did not co operate effectively, and it is yet to be decided whether the fault, if there was one, existed in the failure of the fleet to begin the attack on the 18th, or the failure of the army to push the battle on the 25th. We have yet to learn why the attack was not made-before the reinforcements from Richmond reached Wilmington; the railroad communication was severed, and the troops of Lee were four days in making the journey. The plan could not have been better, and the Navy Department is not responsible for the failure. That its execution was imperfect is evident, but the delays were very likely not the fault of any officer, but unavoidable accidents. In any case, the army and navy have won new glory. Weitzel’s troops (but one regiment of colored troops taking part in the fight) wanted nothing so much as to fight, and, when they were withdrawn from the shore, reluctantly retired to the ships. The announcement that they departed in transports seems an ironic comment on the downfall of hopes so high. Butler drew off his sullen and disappointed men, but Porter remained to renew the bombardment, and the fleet is still before the fort. Alone it can do vast harm.
The golden opportunity is past. Wilmington cannot now be taken by storm. It must be reduced by the slow process of a siege. Hardee, with his fifteen thousand men, will reinforce that city and Charleston, and Lee may be able to spare the two divisions he was compelled to send. But the weakness of the rebellion is confessed even in this success. One city was sacrificed to save another: to defend Savannah and Wilmington simultaneously was impossible. And the end is not yet. The fleet can neither be driven away nor combatted. Under its guns we may at any time land an army, and the army is at hand. Sherman’s legions are liberated by the capture of Savannah, and it is certain will move northward, and take every city that opposes them. We have won so much, triumphed so far beyond our wildest hopes, that we can endure this disappointment with patience, and tranquilly await a victory that has only been postponed.-Philadelphia Press.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NUMBER THREE, FOR JANUARY.
CONTENTS.
Timid Tom and Old Gurdy. By Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNE.
With Dedication to Rev. H. W. Beecher.
Out and In, (Poetry.) By BELLE BUSH.
Progress in Literature. By Mrs. ELIZA W. FARNHAM.
Interest on Money and Rents.
Bassie Grey, (Poetry.) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
Sanctification by the Truth. By Rev. O. B. FROTHINGHAM.
The Kinder-Garten. (No. 2.) By Mrs. Louise POLLOCK.
The Moral Police Fraternity.
Carmia, (Poetry.) By ALICE CARY.
The Conflict of Creeds.
Minor Topics. Our Library.
Single copies, 20 cents. $2 per year.
To be procured of all news-dealers.
The three numbers sent, postpaid, for 50 cents.
Address C. M. PLUMB & CO.,
274 Canal St., New York.
A PICTORIAL DOUBLE NUMBER-THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL and LIFE ILLUSTRATED, for January, appears with 32 quarto pages, and a beautiful illustrated cover. It contains Portraits of Tennyson, Silliman, Sheridan, Cobb, Phillips, Susanna Wesley-mother of John- an Indian Chief, Franz Muller, Miss Muggins, Miss Fury, the Princess of Wales, Florence Nightingale, A Group of Warriors-Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Pizarro, Cromwell, Charles XII., Frederick the Great, Scott, Wellington and Napoleon, with ETHNOLOGY, PHRENOLOGY, PHYSIOGNOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, and PSYCHOLOGY. No. 1, Vol. 41st. Published at 20 cents a Number, or $2.00 a year, by Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York.
WORCESTER COUNTY SOUTH DIVISION ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held at WORCESTER, on Sunday, Jan. 15th, commencing at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M., and continuing, probably, afternoon and evening.
The members of the Society are notified, and all are invited to attend.
WENDELL PHILLIPS and ANDREW T. FOSS are among the speakers expected on the occasion.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.
DIED-In East Lexington, Dec. 13th, Mrs. HANNAH S. ROBBINS, wife of the late Eli Robbing, Esq., aged 78 years. She was ever a true friend to the slave. She will be remembered by many laborers in the Anti-Slavery cause for her kind co-operation and hospitality.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
So
wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an alterative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT. SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Jan. 6. 2m.
WANTED,
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; one who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no me of intoxicating drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such an one may have a good situation by corresponding with THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, Mass., Jan. 4 3w
55th MARCH,
WITH lithographic likeness of Col. A. S. Hartwell, 55th Mass. Vols., who was severely wounded while commanding a brigade at the battle of Honey Hill, S. C. The likeness is pronounced by the friends of Col. Hartwell to be a perfect success. Published and for sale only by the author,
J. S. JACOBUS,
No. 8 Dix Place, Boston.
Extract of a letter to E. W. Kinsley, 37 Franklin St., Boston, introducing Mr. Jacobs:-
“Mr. Jacobs was formerly leader of the Band of the 24th Mass. Regt., and has been ONE Month with the 55th as teacher of the Band, &c. Mr. Jacobs has done the good thing by us, and when better times come, we hope to have him here again. 
A. S. HARTWELL.
Col. 55th Mass. Comm’ng.
Hilton Head, S.C, June, 1863.”
<c06>
CARPENTER’S
Great National Picture.
THE
Emancipation Proclamation
BEFORE THE CABINET.
PAINTED on canvass, measuring 14 1-2 by 9 feet, and, containing full-length life-size Portraits of President. LINCOLN Secretaries SEWARD, CHASE, STANTON, WELLS, SMITH Postmaster General BLAIR, and Attorney–General BATES, together with a faithful representation of the
Old Cabinet Council Chamber in the White House.
NOW ON EXHIBITION AT
WILLIAMS & EVERETT’S,
234 WASHINGTON STREET.
ADMISSION, 25 CENTS.
MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
This portrait is deemed by Mr. GARRISONGARRISON, and by his family and most intimate friends, as the most accurate and satisfactory of any yet taken of him. One who has long been personally acquainted with him, and whose judgment is very critical, writes as follows:-“I have obtained a copy of your picture of Mr. GARRISON from life, and it suits my notion of ‘the eternal fitness of things.’”” A lady in New Hampshire writes:-“The picture gives us great pleasure. We all pronounce it as nearly perfect as any picture of Mr. GARRISON can be.”
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.
Boston, Dec. 20, 1864.

LUCIFER MATCHES.
THE philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorus and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is Necrosis, the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of those cases, mostly young women, have been treated in the New York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?
Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous cases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,-
This Child was Burned to Death
BY LUCIFER MATCHES.
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE.
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of dollars.
	FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry sticks together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned
TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils,) scientific chemists have, for more than a quarter of a century, been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,-
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors.
Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs to a
SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST,
who has produced, to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the meed of a world’s gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combinations, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?
A MATCH INODOROUS AND SAFE,
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.
NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHORUS
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building.
In order that the
PEOPLE OF AMERICA
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent here, and an association formed under the name of
The Universal Safety Match Co.,
who now offer to the citizens of the United States
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE,
and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or Wind-Defier.
which neither wind nor rain can extinguish.
A fair trial will verify the truth of our statements.
JOHN P. JEWETT.
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company,
NO. 18 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
P. S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to wax compositions. Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest nd most perfect wax tapers ever produced.
Dec. 9. -4wis.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the States. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences or either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation, is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, farm utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
SEA-SHORE.
BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
I heard or seemed to hear the chiding Sea
Say, Pilgrim, why so late or slow to come?
Am I not always here, thy Summer home?
Is not my voice thy music, morn and eve?
My breath thy healthful climate in the heats?
My touch thy antidote? my bay thy bath?
Was ever building like my terraces?
Was ever couch magnificent as mine?
Lie on the warm rock-ledges, and there learn
A little hut suffices like a town.
I make your sculptured architecture vain-
Vain beside mine:-
Lo! here is Rome, and Nineveh, and Thebes,
Karnak, and Pyramid, and Giant’s Stairs,
Half-piled or prostrate; and thy newest slab
Older than all thy race.
Behold the Sea,
The opaline, the plentiful and strong, 
Yet beautiful as is the rose in June,
Fresh as the trickling rainbow of July
Sea full of food, the nourisher of kinds,
Purger of earth, and medicine of men;
Creating a sweet climate by my breath,
And, in my mathematic ebb and flow,
Giving a hint of that which changes not.
Rich are the Sea-gods;-who give gifts but they?
They grope the sea for pearls, but more than pearls;
They pluck Force thence, and give it to the wise.
For every wave is wealth to Daedalus,-
Wealth to the cunning artist who can work
This matchless strength. Where shall he find, O wave!
A load your Atlas shoulders cannot lift?
I with my hammer pounding evermore
The rocky coast, smite Andes into dust,
Strewing my bed, and, in another age,
Rebuild a continent of better men.
Then I unbar the doors: I disperse
Men to all shores that front the hoary main.
I too have arts and sorceries;
Illusion dwells forever with the wave.
I know what shells are laid. Leave me to deal
With credulous, imaginative man.
For though he scoop my water in his palm,
A few rods off he deems it gems and clouds.
Planting strange fruits and sunshine on the shore,
I make some coast alluring, some lone isle,
To distant men who must go there, or die.

THE VANISHERS.
Sweetest of all child-like dreams
In the simple Indian lore,
Still to me the legend seems
Of the elves who flit before.
Flitting, passing, seen and gone,
Never reached nor found at rest,
Baffling search, but beckoning on
To the Sunset of the Blest.
From the clefts of mountain rocks
Through the dark of lowland firs,
Flash the eyes and flow the locks
Of the mystic Vanishers!
And the fisher in his skiff,
And the hunter on the moss,
Hear their call from cape and cliff,
See their hands the birch-leaves toss.
Wishful, longing, through the green
Twilight of the clustered pines,
In their faces rarely seen
Beauty more than mortal shines.
Fringed with gold, their mantles flow
On the slopes of westering knolls:
In the wind they whisper low
Of the Sunset Land of Souls.
Doubt who may, O friend of mine!
Thou and I have seen them too;
On before with beck and sign
Still they glide, and we pursue.
More than clouds of purple trail
In the gold of setting day;
More than gleams of wing or sail
Beckon from the sea-mist gray.
Glimpses of immortal youth,
Gleams and glories seen and lost,
Far-heard voices sweet with truth,
As the tongues of Pentecost-
Beauty that eludes our grasp,
Sweetness that transcends our taste
Loving hands we may not clasp,
Shining feet that mock our haste-
Gentle eyes we closed below,
Tender voices heard once more,
Smile and call us as they go
On and onward, still before.
Guided thus, O friend of mine!
Let us walk our little way,
Knowing by each beckoning sign
That we are not quite astray.
Chase we still, with baffled feet,
Smiling eye and waving hand;
Sought and seeker soon shall meet
Lost and found, in Sunset Land!
-John G. Whittier, in Atlantic Monthly.

LINCOLN.
Lincoln, of thee the bards will sing 
When my poor muse may chant no more;
Some little flower I too would bring,
A fit and lasting offering
To drop at Virtue’s door.
No wordly gain will tempt aside
Thy footsteps from the path of right;
While honest truth thy acts shall guide,
We will in steadfast hope abide
The issue of the fight.
Whatever cares on thee descend, 
While sitting at the head of State,
The cause of Freedom still defend,
And Fame’s proud laurels in the end
Thy honest toils await.
This simple tribute let me pay,
Now clouds obscure thy rising sun;
God’s hand will sweep those clouds away,
And friend and foe will one day say,
Thy truth the victory won.
W. MARSH, U. S. Consul, Altona.
N. Y. Evening Post.

BARBARISM.
Written after reading the Report of the Commission of Inquiry appointed by the U. S. Sanitary Commission, 1864.
O sickening record! most pathetic page,
That fills the blood-stained volume of our years!
E’en Love itself is fired with holy rage
By scenes that bathe a Nation’s heart in tears!
Reading, what woeful visions fill my eyes
Of loathsome prisons crammed with starving men,
And baleful swamps, where, ’‘neath the open skies,
The brave, like beasts, are herded in their pen!
I see their crouching forms, their vacant stare,
The hopeless look of eyes that cannot weep,
The wan, pinched faces that were once so fair,
Of heroes gnawing their foul rags in sleep.
I see their bony fingers spread in vain
For one sweet morsel-spread in vain to take
The dear home letter-or to still retain 
The trinkets sacred for love’s tender sake.
I hear the keeper’s oath-the idiot wail, 
Breathing the key-note of a voiceless woe-
The brutal scoffs that broken hearts assail,
The murderous shot that lays the captive low.
There, coiled in ditches through the wintry night,
To shield each other from the cold they strive;
Or, pacing foetid chambers, pray for light;
Or, prone on blistering sands, creep just alive.
<c02>
These are thy fruits, O thou barbaric curse!
This Slavery is the crown that decks thy brow;
This is the Christian spirit thou dost nurse-
These the kind deeds thy charities allow!
O, dark the hour that saw thy shameful birth,
And dark and blighting all thy guilty reign!-
Rouse, freemen! smite the monster from the earth,
And on the nation God shall smile again!

The Liberator.
THE NEW YORK OBSERVER AND THE REV. LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
MR. EDITOR: DEAR SIR-I beg leave to commend to the attention of your renders the following notice from the New York Observer, with some reminiscences and remarks:
A NEW SECT PROPOSED. Mr. Leicester A. Sawyer, in the Boston Liberator, makes an appeal to the Rationalists of the United States, in the several religious denominations to which they now belong, to come out and be a sect by themselves. He says:
“ Finally, let us have a Rationalist association and convention, and come together from our different denominations of Christians, during the next anniversary week in Boston, shake hands together, compare views, consider questions of policy, truth and duty, and address ourselves to saving [at last] the world; the true end and object of the mission of Jesus, and of all true Christianity.”
We second the motion. By all means come out from your present associations with all those who take the Bible to be their rule of faith, and form yourselves into a sect as soon as possible. 
Mr. Sawyer says in this same letter: “We know the Bible miracles to be fictitious by the same rules by which we know anything, and with the same certainty.” We admit the right of Mr. Sawyer to say this for himself, and of him it may be true. But he must not affirm it of other people, who do know something, and know the Bible miracles to be genuine by the same rules by which they know anything else. 
Some twenty years ago, or more, a Presbyterian minister sent us a work of his own on moral philosophy. We thought it radically unsound, and said so. Its author complained grievously, but we saw no reason to change our opinion. We knew it to be a false system by the same rules by which we know any, thing else to be false. The author has been going from one spot to another in the downhill progress of opinion, till at last he appears in Garrison’s Liberator, proposing a new sect to be composed of RATIONALISTS, whose reason is more to them than the Bible, in the doctrine of God. This is Sawyer’s philosophy gone to seed. This is Leicester A. Sawyer.
Some twenty years ago Mr. Sawyer investigated, with much care, the principal questions of mental and moral science, in connection with the ancient languages and the early history of the human race. These sciences had been favorite objects of study with him from his earliest years. At this time they were forced upon his more particular attention by his Biblical and theological studies, and he felt it necessary to ascertain what was known, and, as far as might be, what could be known, at this stage of the world’s progress, respecting them. An accurate knowledge of them seemed to him to be necessary to a correct judgment and appreciation of the sacred books, and to their correct interpretation. To get this knowledge, he investigated first the philosophy of the mind as it is treated by the leading German, French, English, Scotch and American thinkers, and by the ancients; and then as it appears from the mind itself and its phenomena, as far as he was able to observe them. His first object was to determine the relation of the mind to its phenomena, then to define and classify its phenomena on the principle of separating all that differ, and grouping together all that are alike; and lastly to determine the specific characters and relations of each class of mental phenomena, and its divinely appointed objects and uses.
He was particularly concerned to know the precise nature of knowledge and faith, together with the faculties by which we obtain them, and the laws and fields of their legitimate exercise. After gaining what satisfaction he could, on the nature of the mind and its operations, he proceeded to the examination of moral actions, with a view to determine their nature and objects, and the possibilities of good and evil connected with them. He found moral science to be entirely within the field of mental; mental science relating to the mind and all its phenomena; and moral, to that class of its phenomena called moral actions.
In both these departments of inquiry, he found the fields large and productive, and reached some new and many valuable results. Some of these he published in works both on mental and moral philosophy, and on the latter subject was pretended to be criticised by the “New York Observer. The notice, however, was not criticism, but a denunciation, more in the style of a rough than of a calm, kind, humble, considerate, gentle and benevolent Christian scholar.
The author had a personal acquaintance with the editor of the Observer, belonged to the same ecclesiastical body, and regarded him as a kind and generous Christian brother, and, to some extent, a personal friend. It will be difficult for you to imagine the surprise and astonishment with which his denunciation was received. The friend was of a sudden an enemy of the most violent character, the gentleness of the lamb giving place to the fierceness of the tiger; the humble, thoughtful, indulgent and charitable Christian, as he supposed, appeared to the author suddenly dismantled of those Christian graces, and quite another figure rose frowning on his view.
This was the end of personal acquaintance and fraternal intercourse between Mr. Sawyer and the New York Observer. The present article, after the lapse of twenty years, is a forcible reminder of the past, and is to Mr. Sawyer the occasion of solemn and interesting reflections. It has no special violence of denunciation or detraction, but its tone is not quite amiable. It is not that in which we speak of the loved and lost even, but rather that in which we speak of the detested and despised. The thought with which the article concludes might have been expressed more kindly.
According to the New York Observer “ Mr. Sawyer has been going from one spot to another, in the downward progress of opinion, till he at last appears in Garrison’s Liberator, proposing a new sect to be composed of Rationalists whose reason is more to them than the Bible, in the doctrine of God.” When Mr. Sawyer published views on moral science that offended the New York Observer, he had started on the road of inquiry, and to some extent of discovery. He had begun the investigation of facts and principles pertaining to religion and morality, and the exploration of fields of inquiry in which all past ages have been at work, and which will equally employ all ages to come. The materials of science are inexhaustible, and its paths strike out into infinity. Superstitions may be fixed and stationary, till they die and are put out of sight, but science is naturally progressive. Its possibilities are co-ordinate with the Supreme, in whom the perfect and absolute dwell alone. God’s knowledge is supposed to be subject to no variation; his works are subject to variations analogous to those of man’s works, and these are extended through indefinite periods.
As Mr. Sawyer has been going from one point to another for the last twenty years, is it quite certain that his progress has been downward? Is the Observer a competent authority to pronounce on that progress? And if he is, has he examined the subject with sufficient care to be qualified for such a pronouncement? In other sciences, study is apt to lead learners onward and upward. Other sciences are naturally progressive by means of study. Study led Ptolemy to his conclusions respecting the structure of the heavens; later and longer study led Copernicus to his, and has converted Christendom to Copernicus. Study led Democritus and the old philosophers to their conclusions in respect to the material world; and longer and later study led Sir Isaac Newton to his, and has converted Christendom to Sir Isaac Newton. The early studies of the Greeks and Romans led them to Polytheism later and longer studies converted them
<c03>
to the religion of Jesus, and still later and longer studies have developed the theories of Christianity embraced and advocated by Mr. Sawyer. The Copernican astronomy and Newtonian philosophy had their day of conflict and trial previous to being generally admitted, and both have been denounced as progressions downward by as high authorities as the New York Observer. May not time, the great revolutionist, and the progress of opinion yet vindicate Mr. Sawyer as a true progressive, and condemn the Observer as an enemy of progress?
The honest and determined search for truth, persisted in for more than twenty years, is not apt to be entirely unproductive. It does not ordinarily sink men, it generally raises them. There are men who are always learning, and unable to come to a knowledge of the truth; but the search for truth has its laws, prescribed and maintained by the great Father, which, if duly observed, conduct as certainly to beneficial results as any other of the divine laws of order and happiness. The scholar that observes them does not run with uncertainty in respect to the validity of his conclusions, nor the soldier of science fight as one who beats the air.
There is much that is noble and god-like among professing Christians, many tender charities, many generous affections, many exalted virtues; but intolerance, arrogance and superciliousness are great faults, and uncharitable judgments have in all ages been a public scandal to the Christian cause. They appeared in the earliest times, and are still persisted in by many. The enemies of Christianity suppose them to be an incurable evil, otherwise than by the rejection of the Christian system. Christian Rational is to do not think so, and intend to demonstrate the contrary.
It was a beautiful conception of Jesus to announce the divine law of love, as requiring us to do to others as we would have others do to us. Christians should conform to this rule; and not to do it is to be guilty of great inconsistency. It is god-like to love; it is fiend-like to pursue our fellow-men with despite and scorn. The god-like is virtuous and ennobling; the fiend-like vicious and degrading,. Rationalism puts a high estimate on knowledge and correct faith, but regards them as chiefly valuable on account of their ministrations to the higher virtues. It adopts the doctrine of Jesus in favor of love, kindness, and mutual well-doing, and insists much on the injunction attributed to Jesus, “ Be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.” It proposes to run the Christian race as a struggle for knowledge and holiness. If the other schools of Christendom fancy that they are ahead of their Rationalist brothers, and in some cases refuse to acknowledge the fraternal relation, it will make no difference with us; we shall run still, for the same glorious objects, and endeavor not to be wanting in obedience to God, or any good faith or kind charities due to men.
There is one expression in the Observer’s article which shows that he does not exactly apprehend the principles of Christian Rationalism, and is denouncing those who profess them at least under one mistake. He describes Rationalists as persons “ whose reason is more to them than the Bible in the doctrine of God.” Rationalists accept the Bible as a collection of sacred books, and study its text, history and interpretation, to elicit from it all the information and instruction it has to give. They do not oppose reason to the Bible, but exercise it on the Bible as they do on other books and things. The Bible to them is a source of information, and, as such, they accept it gladly, and prize it highly. It is not, however, the only book in the world, nor the only good book; and all the books in the world taken together are not sources of all possible information, or repositories of all possible knowledge. To limit our studies to books is a great folly. The book scholar, if he is at the same time an observer and student of things, derives invaluable benefits from books; but the exclusive student of books is little better than a book-worm. Things are the necessary guides to the interpretation of books, and must be profoundly studied if we would become truly wise.
Reason is the faculty of interpreting both books and other things; it is the window of the soul, through which all light is admitted. The Bible is one of the sources of light, of which God is the sole central sun, and all his glorious works reflecters.
Rationalists accept the Bible for all that it is. Reason is its interpreter, not its rival or competitor. No conceivable exaltation of reason conflicts with the legitimate claims of the Bible. The intellect of an angel would not make the Bible teach less, but more; AS it teaches more to the intelligent than it does to the unintelligent. The more reason is exalted, the more the Bible will be exalted in all its legitimate offices. To animals, the Bible is a sealed book, and teaches nothing; to men of little intellect, it teaches little; to those of greater capacity, it teaches more, just according to their capacity, other things being equal.
Reason, according to Rationalists, comes in no competition with the Bible. It belongs to a different class of objects altogether. The Bible is a book, a source of information to be studied, judged and interpreted; reason is the faculty of judging and knowing. The question between Christian Rationalists and others is not concerning reason or the Bible as a rule of faith. Christian Rationalists no more make reason a rule of faith than others. The real question is, concerning reason on the Bible, judging what it is, and what it teaches; and this must be decided by evidence; it cannot be settled by assumption or authority.
It is not to be wondered at that the adherents of traditionary faiths should be harsh and uncharitable to innovators, and imagine that opinions which have braved the storms of nearly twenty centuries will maintain their ground forever. Precedent and approved practice are strongly in their favor; but science is developing improvements in religious opinions which will not long brook resistance. Men may clear the track and make way for them, or see them sweep by and pass over them, if they prefer. God is not dead nor asleep, neither is his vast scheme to be arrested, nor his arm stayed. It is the aim of Christian Rationalists to put ourselves right, first, with God, and then with all his subordinates in their order, but especially with men our neighbors and brothers, and most especially with good men, whom we intend to compel to be our friends and co-workers, and to come with us to God’s marriage-feast of reason. Perhaps we shall yet gain the New York Observer. We conquer to exalt and bless, and no man will enter our fields without rejoicing in a brighter sunlight than ever shone elsewhere.
Yours, most truly,
LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
Boston, Dec. 26, 1864.
THE INAUGURATION OF MR. CHASE. The ceremony was impressive, in that Mr. Chase swore himself into office-reading the oath in a solemn, forceful, nervous, and impressive manner, and then raising aloft his right hand, and concluding, “ So help me God!” In the clause, “ Equal and exact justice to the poor as well as to the rich,” he gave involuntary emphasis to the word poor, which sent a quick pulse of gladness through the hearts of many who stood before him, and touched his voice with richer intonation. It was as though he had directly said he knew what all the people expected- of him-that he should specially remember the poor and humble, and those of low degree; and in his nervous emphasis there was assurance of the future.-Corr. of Boston Daily Advertiser 
CHAPLAINCY OF THE SENATE. Rev. Leonard A. Grimes, a colored Baptist minister of Boston, is a candidate for the chaplaincy of the Massachusetts Senate. As he is acknowledged by all to be competent for the post, we earnestly hope he will be elected. The opportunity is again presented Massachusetts to lead in the great cause of humanity. We desire Mr. Grimes’s election because it will be a recognition of the right of the black man to the elevation to Important offices. We trust Mr. Manning, and all other true friends of freedom, will join in this good work. We therefore hope to be able next week to record the election of the Rev. Mr. Grimes.-Christian Register.
<c04>
GAIL HAMILTON UPON WOMAN.
WOMAN’S WORK.
Women are accounted the weaker sex; but there is no comparison to be made between the labor of the weaker and the stronger. Of fathers of families and mothers of families, the real wear and tear of life comes on the latter. If there is anxiety as to the sufficiency of support, the mother shares it equally with the father, and feels it none the less for not being able to contribute directly to the supply of the deficiency. Forced, passive endurance of an evil is quite as difficult a virtue as unsuccessful struggle against it. If there is no anxiety in that direction, the occupations of men can scarcely give them any hint of the peculiar, perplexing, depressing, irritating nature of a woman’s ordinary house-hold duties. Pamphleteers exhort women to hush? up the discords, drive away the clouds, and have only smiles and sunshine for the husband coming home wearied with his day’s labor. They would be employing themselves to much better advantage, if they would enjoin him to bring home smiles and sunshine for his wife. She is the one that pre-eminently needs strength, and soothing and consolation. She needs a warm heart to lean on, a strong arm and a steady hand to lift her out of the sloughs in which she is ready to sink, and set her on the high places where birds sing, and flowers bloom, and breezes blow. The husband’s work may be absorbing and exhaustive, but a fundamental difference lies in the simple fact, that a man has constant and certain change of scene, and a woman has not. A man goes out to his work, and comes in to his meals. Two or three times a day, sometimes all the evening, always at night and on Sunday, he is away from his business and his place of business. The day may be long or short, but there is an end to it. A woman is on the spot all the time, and her cares never cease. She eats and drinks, she goes out and comes in, she lies down and rises up, tethered to one stone. It does not seem to amount to much, that a man closes his shop and goes home; that he unyokes his oxen, ties up his cows, and sits down on the door-step; but let the merchant, year after year, eat and sleep in his counting-room, the schoolmaster in his schoolroom, the shoemaker over his lap-stone, the blacksmith by his anvil, the minister in his study, the lawyer in his chambers, with only as frequent variations as a housekeeper’s visitings and tea-drinkings give her, and I think he would presently learn that he needs not to possess powers acute enough to divide a hair ’‘twixt north and northwest side, in order to distinguish the difference. A distance of half a mile, or even a quarter of a mile, breaks off all the little cords that have been compressing a man’s veins, and lets the blood rush through them with force and freedom. It is change of scene, change of persons, change of atmosphere, and a consequent change of a man’s own self. He is made over new.
But his wife toils on in the same place; dark care sits behind her at breakfast and dinner and supper. The walls are festooned with her cares. The floors are covered with them as thick as the dust in the Interpreter’s house. He shakes off the dust from his feet, and goes home; her home is in the dust. What wonder that it strangles and suffocates her? 
Moreover, a man’s occupation has uniformity, or rather unity. His path lies in one line; sometimes he has only to walk mechanically along it. Rather stupid, but not wearing work; for generally, if he had been a man upon whom it would have worm, he would have done something else: always he has power to bring everything to bear on his business, If it is mental labor, he has the opportunity of solitude, or only such association as assists. His helpers, and all with whom he is concerned, are mature, intelligent, trained, and often ambitious, and self-respectful and courteous. He can set his fulcrum close to the weight, and all he has to do is to bear down on the lever.
The wife’s assistants, if she has any, are unspeakably in the rough, and little children make all her schemes “ gang a-gley.” The incautious slam of a door will shatter the best-laid plans, and the stubbing of a chubby toe sinks her morning into the mid-day. Children are to a man amusement, delight, juveniscence, a truthful rendering of the old myth, that wicked kings were wont to derive a ghoul-like strength by transfusion of the blood of infants. The father has them for a little while. He frolics with them. He rejoices over them. They are beautiful and charming. He is new to them, and they are new to him, and by the time the novelty is over it is the hour for them to go to bed. He feels rested and refreshed for his contact with them. They present strong contrasts to the world he deals with all day. Their transparency shines sweetly against its opacity. Even their little wants and vanities and bickerings are to him only interesting developments of human nature. His power is pleased with their dependence; his pride flatters itself with their future; his tenderness softens to their clinging; his earthliness cleaves away before their innocence, and he thinks his quiver can never be too full of them.
This is the poetry, and he reads it with great delight; but there is a prose department, and that comes to the mother. She has had the cherubs all day, and she know that the trail of the serpent is over them all. She sees the angel in their souls as well as he, often better: but she sees, too, the mark of the beast on their forehead,, -which he seldom discovers. His playthings are her stumbling-blocks. The constancy of her presence forbids novelty, and throws her upon her inventive powers for resources. All their weariness and fretfulness and aches are poured into her lap. She has no division of labor, no concentration of forces; no five or ten hours devoted to household work, and two or three to her children, taking them into her heart to do good like a medicine. They patter through every hour to stay her from doing with her might any of the many things which her hands find to do. Nothing keeps limits; everything laps over. God has given her a love so inexhaustible, that, notwithstanding the washings and watchings, the sewing and dressing which children necessitate, notwithstanding the care, the check, the pull-back, the weariness, the heart sickness, which they occasion, the “little hindering things” are-my pen is not wont to be timid, but it shrinks from attempting to say what little ones are to a mother. But divine arrangement does not prevent human drawback; and looking not at inward solace, but outward business, it remains true that the business of providing for the wants of a family is not of that smooth, un-creaking nature to the mother that it is to the father. Let a man take two or three little children- two or three? Let him take one!-of one, two, three years of age to his shop, or stall, or office, and take care of him all the time for a week, and he will see what I mean.
A WOMAN’S CHOICE.
There is not one woman in a million who would not be married, if-I borrow a phrase from the popular, pestilent patois, but I transfigure it with its highest meaning-if she could get a chance. How do I know? Just as I know the stars are now shining in the sky, though it is high noon. I never saw a star at mid-day, but I know it is the nature of stars to shine in the sky, and of the sky to hold stars. Genius or fool, rich or poor, beauty or the beast, if marriage were what it should be, what God meant it to be, what even with the world’s present possibilities it might be, it would be the Elysium, the sole complete Elysium of woman: yes, and of man. Greatness, glory, usefulness, happiness, await her other where; but here alone, all her powers, all her being can find full play. No condition, no character even, can quite hide the gleam of the sacred fire; but on the household hearth it joins the warmth of earth to the hues of heaven. Brilliant, dazzling, vivid, a beacon and a blessing, her light may be, but only a happy home blends the prismatic rays into a soft, serene whiteness, that floods the world with a divine illumination. Without wifely and motherly love, a part of her nature must remain unclosed-a spring shut up, fountain sealed; but a thousand times better that it should remain closed than that it should be rudely rent open, or opened only to be defiled. A thousand times better that the vestal fire should I burn forever on the inner shrine, than that it should be brought out to boil in the pot. But the pot must boil, you say, and so it must; but with oak-wood and shavings, not with beaten olive oil.
WIVES AND COOKS.
Cooking is the cook’s profession; she ought to attain skill, and her employer has a right to require it, and as great a variety and profusion of dishes as he can furnish material for. But if he is not able to hire a cook, and must depend entirely upon his wife, the case is different. Cooking is not her profession. It is only one of the duties incident to her station. It is incumbent upon her to spread a plentiful and wholesome table. It is culpable inefficiency to do less than this. It is palpable immorality to do more. No matter how fond of cooking; or how skillful or alert a woman may be; she has only twenty-four hours in her day, and only two hands for her work; and one woman who has the sole care of a family,
<c05>
cannot, if she has any rational and Christian idea of life, of personal, household and social duties, have any more time and strength than is sufficient for their simple discharge. Over-doing in one direction must be compensated by under-doing in another, She cannot pamper Peter without pinching Paul. Much that you laud as a virtue, I lament as a vice. You revel in the cakes and the dainties, and boast the skill of the housewife; and indeed her marvels, are featly wrought, sweet to the taste, and to be desired if honestly come by; but if there has been plunder and extortion, if it is a soul that flakes the pastry, if it is a heart that is embrowned in the gravies, if leisure and freshness and breadth of sympathy and keen enjoyment have been frittered away on the fritters, and simmered away in the sweetmeats, and battered away in the puddings, give me, I pray you, a dinner of herbs. Johnnycake was royal fare in Weldon woods, when a king prepared the banquet and presided at the board. Peacock’s tongues are but common meat to peacocks.
The pate de foie gras is a monstrous dish. A goose, is kept in some warm, confined place, that precludes any extended motion, and fed with fattening food, so that his liver enlarges through disease till it is considered fit to be made into a pie,-a luxury to epicures, but a horror to any healthful person. Just such a goose is many a woman, confined by custom and her consenting will in a warm, narrow kitchen; only instead of her liver, it is her life which she herself makes up into pies; but the pastry which you find so delicious seems to me disease. The ancients buried in urns the ashes of their bodies; we deposit in urns the ashes of our souls, and pass them around at the tea-table.
WIVES THAT ARE STRANGERS.
Husbands do not talk with their wives. If a neighbor is married, they tell of it. If a battle is fought, or a village burnt down, they communicate the fact; but for any interchange of thought or sentiment or emotion, for any conversation that is invigorating, inspiring, that causes a thrill or leaves a glow, how often does such a thing occur between husband and wife? What intellectual meeting is there, -what shock of electricities? When a definite domestic question is to be decided, the wife’s judgment may be sought, and that, is better than a solitary stumbling on, regardless of her views or feelings; but this sort of bread-and-butter discussion of ways and means is not the gentle, animated play of conversation, not that pleasant sparkle which enlivens the hours, that trustful confidence which lightens the heart, that wielding of weapons which strengthens the arm, that sweet, instinctive, half-unveiling which increases respect, deepens love, and fills the heart with inexpressible tenderness. Yet there is nobody in the world with whom it is so important for a man to be intimately acquainted as his own wife, while such intimate acquaintance is the exception rather than the rule. Every one sees them going on each in his own path, each with his own inner world of opinions and hopes and, memories, one in name, miserably two in all else, Men often have too much confidence in their measuring-lines. They fancy they have fathomed a soul’s depths when they have but sounded its shallows. They think they have circumnavigated the globe when they have only paddled in a cove. They trim their sails for other seas, leaving the priceless gems of their own undiscovered. To many a man no voyage of exploration would bring such rich returns as a persevering and affectionate search into the resources of the heart which he calls his own. Many and many a man would be amazed at learning that in the tame, household drudge, in the meek, timid, apologetic recipient of his caprices, in the worn and fretful invalid, in the common-place, insipid, domestic weakling, he scorns an angel unawares. Many a wife is wearied and neglected into moral shabbiness, who, rightly entreated, would have walked sister and wife of the gods. Human nature, in certain directions, is as infinite as the Divine nature; and when a man turns away from his wife, under the impression that he has exhausted her capabilities, and must seek elsewhere the sympathy and companionship he craves, or go without it altogether, let him reflect that the chances are at least even that he has but exhausted himself, and that the soil which seems to him fallow might, in other hands, or with a wiser culture, yield most plentiful harvests.

PENNSYLVANIA AMONG THE FREEDMEN.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., 12th mo. 7, 1864.
J. Miller McKim, Cor. Sec’y Penn. F. R. Association-Dear Friend-Your letter of 3d inst. is received. We breathe a little more freely this evening, as it is reported that Hood is off. For five days we have heard the cannonading, sometimes for hours in succession. Our work, however, has gone on. The camp school-house is going up, and we hope to occupy it by the time this reaches you. We shall need all our force, including the two from Huntsville, to conduct the work here. Nevertheless, Messrs. Shippen and Chute will return to Huntsville as soon as they can do so with safety. From Murfreesboro’ we hear nothing, but have no doubt of the safety of the teachers at that point. We only hear from Walton that he petitioned the commander of the post at Stevenson to allow him to hold school for the white refugees in the forenoon, and for the colored in the afternoon, which was granted.
For several days, several of the ladies and myself have been distributing clothing at the camp, now crowded with colored refugees. To distribute with safety, all the families were first visited, and tickets given to such as were most needy. These were then presented at the shed in which our goods were stored, and the articles given in return for them. This work has been exceedingly interesting, During one day when we were thus occupied, the cannonading was incessant, and from the door of the store-room we could see the smoke of battle. The colored people were not afraid, but turned out in goodly numbers. Aged women and young children were abundant. One poor insane woman came for supplies. She had been stripped of her children, one after another, until, as she parted with the last, a girl of twelve, her reason gave way. While Miss Plummer was fitting her with clothing, she talked of her; children as though they were still with her, now and then naming the price at which they had been sold. Sometimes she spoke of them as being at the depot, told what good children they were, and again she would speak to them as though they were present in the house. In the course of my missionary labor in Philadelphia, I often saw suffering,: but, strong man as I am, I was moved to tears at this woman’s condition. I dare say her owner was a Southern gentleman of fine manners and great hospitality! The lady who furnished her with clothing wept aloud. Blessings on those who sent this clothing! The blessing of those ready to perish is theirs this evening. Old gray-haired women were there for “kivers,” and children almost naked. Poor consumptives were there, who told us that in the barracks they found it “hard to get near the fire, there were so many in the house.” Women, with infant children in their arms, shivering in the chilly winds of this cold day, and older children, who cried for fear of the white man, were also there. These nine boxes sent by the Friends of Philadelphia came in the right time; they were filled with the right goods; and by the exertions of one lady teacher, they have been faithfully dispensed. Near our camp, the 2000 negroes from Pulaski are hutted for the present.” But few of them need clothing, they having been free a year. But what is to be done now? More goods are on the way. I wish some one would send us second-hand bedding. Two hundred have none to-night, and it is very cold.
Twelfth Month, 8, 1864. -”Mr. Hood,” as he is facetiously called, is not so near us as he was a day or two since. One of the. effects of his raid into Tennessee is the driving in of the Pulaski freed-men. I wrote you a day or two since that they were here, and not in want. To-day I visited their camp. They occupy the “ Sherman Barracks;” good shelter,! but 1200 of them are in five rooms, and all without fire. The camp was this morning in a suffering condition. No stoves, no money to buy them with, and government doing nothing. Colonel Barnard, of our camp, has stoves, but I suspect is not willing to let them go. I left word for the two lieutenants to call on me this afternoon at the lodge. They called, and confessed that they did not know what to do. I told them that I would see that they had stoves, and would meet them at the camp to-morrow. If Barnard does not supply stoves at my request, we shall have to, as the poor children are shivering with cold, getting- ill, &c. In less than ten days, unless something is done, half of them will die. I shall have to spend more money. I shall have to draw on you for $500 more.
Very truly yours,
W. F. MITCHELL.
<c06>
THE EXECUTION OF A SLAVE.
Mr. George M. Arnold, in a private letter written from Dutch Gap, Va., August 13th, to a friend in this city, thus describes a scene which occurred while he was sojourning in the Capital of the South:-
“Margaret Ann Ritter, a slave girl aged seventeen years, the property of a wealthy merchant of Richmond, Va., suffered death by hanging, on the 10th day of February, 1863. The crime was murder of an infant,-an infant which she had nursed from the day of its birth. The facts of the case are these. One Sunday afternoon, while the members of the family of Mr. Ayers, Margaret’s master, were sitting quietly in the parlor, they were suddenly alarmed by screams of murder, coming apparently from the family cook. On rushing to the spot from whence the cry arose, they espied Betsy, the Cook, carrying in her arms the lifeless body of the infant which Margaret was accustomed to nurse. It seems that this woman, the cook, disliked poor Margaret, for no other reason than that Margaret was a devoted Christian, and an honest, upright and virtuous girl;: and she would often strike Margaret, call her mean names, and put“ stumbling-blocks” in her way. On the afternoon above mentioned, Margaret was, as usual, on the back porch nursing, when Betsy came by and said to her ”Why don’t you go into the house? What are you standing here for?” With this she gave the child such a push, that the sweet infant fell from Margaret’s arms to the ground, a distance of thirty feet. The guilty woman ran down, seized the bleeding infant, and began to scream; so that with a semblance of sorrow she might save herself from suspicion, and consequent punishment. The deceit worked well. The murder was laid to Margaret, and in an hour after she was an inmate of the county jail. After remaining in jail three months, each day receiving twenty stripes with the “raw hide,” she was at last granted a trial. But what could she expect from those who were her judges? For what could she ask? If for anything in the shape of justice, it was refused. Her sister was whipped simply for asking permission to visit her, her brother was stuck with a club for the same reason, while her mother was far, far away, and the poor girl could not have seen her, even if she were not! Margaret begged hard to see her parents, but with no success.
The Court sentenced her to be hung, and on February 10th, 1863, the sentence was carried into effect, near the county jail. Ten thousand persons were there to see the innocent suffer. A regiment of cavalry and Governor’s guard were present to preserve order. Margaret left the prison-yard at half-past seven A. M., in a wagon, containing her coffin, on which she was seated:; her spiritual adviser seated on the seat with the driver, and the jailor in the rear with the rope by which poor Margaret was to hang, in his hand. She arrived at the gallows at half-past eight A. M. Although I had known her nearly two years, and had frequently met her at the old Baptist Church, and at: her home, I never saw her look so beautiful as on that day. Her hair, long, black and curly, fell carelessly over her shoulders, while her dark and sparkling eye and her constant smile made her countenance unusually radiant. She stepped lightly up the gallows’ ladder just as I had often seen her before when entering the old Baptist Church on Broad Street. She was followed by the minister, the city sergeant, and the jailor. The sergeant read to her for the first time the sentence. With her usual modest: bow she gave assent. The sergeant who was quite a humane man for such a place as Richmond, then shook her by the hand, telling her she was at liberty to speak, and say anything she wished. She thanked him for the very good treatment he had exhibited to her during her confinement, and then spoke as follows:
“Dear brethren and sisters and kind friends: you have come to see the last of Margaret Ritter, your late associate and companion as well as believer in the Lord who judgeth for as all. I must be hung, though God knows I am innocent of the crime. I am prepared to go where I will see Jesus. I will meet him to-morrow morning-little Winnie (meaning the infant) will be there, and together we will sit by the side of Jesus, and forgive Governor Letcher, who refused me twenty-four hour’s respite that mother might imprint the last kiss on her child. I forgive the witnesses one and all, who have worked hard to see me suffer. I forgive Aunt Betsy, the murderer; I forgive the stern judge who sentenced me; I forgive the man who took such delight in striking me with the strap and raw hide each and every day while I was confined in the jail; and may God forgive them. Kind friends, do not weep for me, but prepare to be ready, as I am ready, to meet Jesus. I am sorry indeed, friends, that I have not some token to give you. My dear brother, I am sorry that I cannot shake you by the hand, or kiss you farewell. Tell sister how happy I am to-day; tell mother I go to glory. Tell Alexis (meaning the man to whom she was engaged to be married) that he must try and meet me in heaven.; I regret very much that I am not permitted to die in mourning. I think the authorities do very wrong to refuse me a change of clothing; but such is the case. I am to suffer death in the dress I wore the day the child was dashed from my arms. This is not your fault, and you must not think I blame you (speaking to her brother). Dear brother, give this ring (taking a ring from her finger) to our mother when she arrives: this pin to sister, (taking a pin from her bosom) this lock of hair keep yourself. Farewell! Farewell! May God bless and protect you all is the prayer of Margaret Ritter.”
The minister offered a fervent prayer, after which she was tied, the cap adjusted, and in five minutes the drop fell; and Margaret Ritter was no more. As every one supposed the girl was innocent, their suppositions were realized. In five weeks after Margaret’s death, Betsy was seized with a severe case of fever, and died: but not until she acknowledged having committed the murder.-Oberlin, Ohw, News.

EMANCIPATION OF SLAVES AND SERFS.
It is a remarkable historical coincidence that slavery or serfdom, which was introduced about the same time into this Continent and into Russia, should simultaneously have received its death-blow in the spring of 1861. The first shot fired by the Southern traitors at Fort Sumter sounded the knell of slavery in this country, and precisely at the same time the news reached us that, on March 17th, 1861, the Czar had issued his now celebrated proclamation, emancipating the serfs in Russia. We need not here give details respecting the annihilation of slavery here. Enough, that events have accumulated since the rebellion broke out which have rendered the further existence, even the toleration of slavery impossible in any place over which “the stars and stripes” wave now, or will ever wave by right of possession.
The present Czar, as soon as ever the war in the Crimea was over, seriously applied his energies to the emancipation of the serfs. The whole population of the Russian empire is about 74,000,000, in which there were 22,000,000 of serfs. The nobility, after the manner of the boasted “Southern Chivalry” of our own South, obstinately opposed the liberation of the serfs. The Czar resolved to carry out his plan, allowed two years for bringing its details into working order, and at last we can report what has been done, so far. Up to last August, nearly all the regulating charters were completed, (111,568, out of 111,576.) and these referred to estates on which resided 10,001,220 serfs. As many as 4,521,878 of these are now completely liberated from their former masters, and of these nearly one-half, (2,133,043,) or nearly a tenth of the whole body of Russian serfs, have come into complete possession of the plats of land allotted them, to change them into small proprietary farmers, and 430,702 of these have required no assistance from the State. All the country people in the nine western provinces, without a single exception, have become proprietors of the rest of Russian. The province of Kharkof ranks highest in emancipation, for 72 per cent, of its former serfs are entirely freed, and are in possession of their grants of land. The percentage varies from 73 in Kharkof to 19 at Smolensk, and 15 in a few remote provinces. In the governments of St. Petersburg and Moscow, where there are a great many nobles, the number of serfs who have become absolute landed proprietors is between 10 and 11 per cent. It was expected that Russia serfdom would be extinct in twelve years from the Czar’s proclamation of March, 1861, but if the emancipation proceeds at anything like the ratio which is here reported, there will not be one serf in Russia three years from this time. Alexander II., whose greatness is shown by his goodness, is as much in advance of the other sovereigns of Europe in liberal views as the city of Philadelphia is ahead, in civilization, of the miserable capital of Sonora-Philadelphia Press 
