LHE LIBERATOR
–IS PUBLISHED–
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
321 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 32. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 8, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1644.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
FRAUDS OF THE RADICALS.
The doctrine of the radical man always is that a good end justifies any means, however wicked. The freedom of a slave they claim to be so high an object, that to accomplish it they would destroy the owner’s property in the slave, take the owner’s life, murder women and children, overthrow the government itself. We state nothing but plain and well known truths. No abolitionist paper or individual will say that any of these wrong are so great as to stand in the way of freedom. But it is not alone great crimes that radicalism justifies. It descends to the petty vices, and practises frauds in the name of liberty, which would be only contemptible if they were not dangerous to the community. It is a sad truth that few radical men have any regard to personal honor or probity, in their political dealings or in propagating their sentiments. Frauds are constantly perpetrated by them, for the purpose of furthering their ends, and men who have the reputation of honesty in ordinary matters are guilty of the grossest dishonesty in their political or what they call their ”moral” work. Thus it occurs that the country is flooded with falsehoods in the interest of radicalism. We could note a hundred which have received direct contradiction, but which have not discouraged the manufacturers, or taught wisdom to the circulators. All remember the falsehoods about Governor Stanley, subsequently acknowledged by their author, who is as high as ever in the abolition church, and whose retraction has not yet elicited the apology which decency requires from those who abused ”Scorpion Stanley” with their slanderous pens. Countless falsehoods have been put in circulation about the President, with a view to coerce him into making them true. He has been annoyed, and in some instances grievously embarrassed, by these inventions of the enemy. Who ever heard of a radical paper correcting one of these, stories? They were told about the Lane and Jennison expeditions in Kansas, about the Fremont proclamation, about the Hunter order, about the Stanley affair, and recently, for two weeks, the country has been filled with the grossest misrepresentations of the President, in the form of reported conversations in which he said he was going to do just what he never dreamed of doing. The same general policy of falsehood and deceit is exhibited in misrepresentations of public sentiment and action. The grossest perversions of fact found circulation in the radical papers, with regard to the late Union Square meeting in this city, and that magnificent demonstration of conservative men, pledging themselves to the, cause of their country, was diverted from its purpose, and published to the world, and urged on the President, as a radical pow-wow of negro lovers, although the very fact of the organization of the Fremont meeting in the corner of the square was an evidence against which it was impossible to contend, that the men who sympathized with radical measures were far less than one-fifth of the great assembly. Another style of radical false hood consists in laying traps for less sharp and wily men, of good reputation and position, whereby they are induced to adopt resolutions which seem to be loyal, and honest, but which are subsequently paraded with great glee as radical opinions endorsed by conservative men. Yet another style consists in packing committees of conservative bodies, who never dream of the trickery, till they find that an adroitly packed committee is made up of members of the Emancipation League and men of like ways of thinking, and the world is told that the committee correctly represents the body which appointed it. Another style consists in claiming as abolitionists and radical men, those who have repeatedly disavowed the alliance, and perhaps the best illustration of this on record is found in the Tribune of Friday last, which quotes our assertion that the ”Abolitionists have remained at home,” and denies it, saying, ”on the contrary, we are well assured that a majority of those who have volunteered for this war voted to make Abraham Lincoln President.” The coolness of the statement that a majority of our soldiers are Republicans, when the whole country knows, by votes and counts innumerable, that four-fifths of them are Democrats, is only equalled by the by the sublime assumption that all who voted for Abraham Lincoln for President are abolitionists!
We might go on with an endless account of the dishonesty of radicalism. It demoralizes the man who adopts it. It leads orators and newspapers to indulge in the most debased and debased and debasing style of rhetoric, substituting the language of the pot house for the arguments of sensible men, and overwhelming their opponents with that style of oratory which makes an English fish-market famous. It has well-nigh ruined our country. It can no more be trusted to-day in its professions of loyalty than in its representations of fact, and the present distracted state of the country is due to the loud and long wails of radicalism, which have rung through the land from men who are openly on war committees or at least professing to encourage the enlistment of soldiers, but who at heart sympathize with the excuses of cowardice,
President decrees emancipation,” “I will not enlist until the President calls negroes to enlist with me.”–N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

THE DEMOCRACY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
The Democracy of Pennsylvania met in convention, at Harrisburgh, July 4th,–when all parts of the State seemed to be fully represented. The Committee on Resolutions submitted the following, which were unanimously and cheerfully adopted:- 
That the partly of fanaticism or crime, whichever it may be called, that seeks to turn the slaves of the Southern States loose, to overrun the North and enter into competition with the white laboring masses, thus degrading and insulting their manhood by placing them on an equality with negroes in their occupations, is insulting to our race, and merits our most emphatic and unqualified condemnation.
 That the Democracy of Pennsylvania is equally opposed to all sectional legislation and geographical parties which base their hopes for continued partisan success on the agrarianism of emancipation and hypocritical philanthropy, abolition, because neither is known to the Constitution, and both are intended to aid disunion and subvert the Constitution, and to prevent the restoration of unity and peace among the States and the people.
That the Constitution and the laws are sufficient for any emergency, and that the suppression, of the freedom of speech and of the press, and the unlawful arrest of citizens and the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, in violation of the Constitution, in States where the civil authorities are unimpeded, is most dangerous to civil liberty, and should be resisted at the ballot-box by every freeman in the land. 
 That this is a government of white men, and was established exclusively for the white race: that the negro race are not entitled to and ought not to be
<c02>
admitted to political or social equality with the white race, but that it is our duty to treat them with kindness and consideration as an inferior but dependent race; that the right of the several States to determine the position and duty of the several races is a sovereign right, and the pledges of the Constitution require us as loyal citizens <illegible>0 interfere therewith.
 That Congress has no power to deprive any person of his property for any criminal offence, unless that person has first been duly convicted of the offence by the verdict of a jury, and that all acts of Congress like those lately passed by the House of Representatives, which assume to forfeit or confiscate the estates of men for offences of which they have not been convicted by due trial by jury, are unconstitutional and lead to oppression and tyranny. It is no justification for such acts that the crimes committed in the prosecution of the rebellion are of unexampled atrocity, nor is there any such justification as State necessity known to our Government or laws.

HOW IT WORKS.
 And what is the serious effect of all this anti-Christian preaching-of the ”abolition of Union” meetings by clergymen? It is to keep good Christian citizens and also their families from attending those churches-the pseudo Orthodox of self-opinion! As proof, look at the financial condition of the said edifices. Aye, there’s the rub! ”The Temple Church” has occasionally been let for rope dancing and comic singing. “Theodore Parker’s Church,” where Wendell Phillips and Garrison hold forth, has heretofore been let for a Rarey show in horse taming. The ”Park Street Church” has let a part of its basement story for the retail of a refreshment of the body; and over the door, in black letters, is a sign-not of the cross and the appropriate words “In hoc signo vince”-but the words, ”Philadelphia Ice Cream Depot.” O! Shade of Constantine! The Winter Street Church has also let its basement, and to a worthy and fashionable milliner, and as a depot-not of ice cream-but for crinoline; and the sign there is as follows, with an index hand pointing to the vestry-door:- “Entrance to Hoop Skirt, Corset and Dressmaking Department.” This exceeds those churches, in the pulpits of which clergymen preach against even ”wine mixed with water,” according to St. Paul, or wine at a marriage feast, as by the example of the Saviour; and yet, Oh! Pharisees! actually receive a rent for the storage of rum, brandy and gin in the basement of their churches! Well may the Episcopalian churches receive additional members and attendance; for there the harrassed mind is edified on Sunday, and not’ disgusted by the preaching of Abolition, Massacre and Disunion!-Corr. of Boston Courier.

THE GOLDEN HOUR..”
 THE GOLDEN HOUR. By Moncure D. Conway, author of”The Rejected Stone.” Impera pasendo Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
The author of this work, a Unitarian clergyman, though a genius, is an ultraist and an unsafe guide to follow. The great question of American Slavery constitutes the main theme of his present book, and the Golden Hour is the present hour, for now, in the estimation of Mr. Conway, the shackles of the slave can be unriveted by a word from the President, the war ended, and the Union restored. We don’t believe in such nonsense. How can the ”word.” of President Lincoln reach to the centre of South Carolina or any other of the Cotton States, and with authority sufficient to free the slaves? Why, it has, had no effect, and can have no effect to liberate even the white Union men in the Slave States who are held in bondage, and pressed into the army of the Southern Confederacy. The slaves can be liberated no further than we gain military occupation; in other words, no further than our arms liberate them. ”The present hour offers us a peaceful victory through emancipation,” says our author. Why don’t men who talk in this way offer some practical thought on the subject? Why don’t they tell us how, ”emancipation” can be effected? and how, if ”emancipation” is effected, it will afford us A ”peaceful victory?” These are times for the utterance of plain common sense, and not fustian.—Boston Trumpet and Freeman.

THE SUBLIME OF IMPUDENCE.
The ”policy” which Mr. Phillips demands as the condition of support to the government is the abolition of slavery. Now, whom does this man represent when he makes this demand? He represents the Garrison Abolitionists, who take no part in the government and give it no voluntary support, and have not for years, because they think that by so doing they should become responsible for slavery. Nobody expects these men to give a dollar or to enlist in the army. They would not be accepted, for there is not one of them who would take the oath of allegiance. They call the Constitution a ”compact with death and an agreement with hell,” and believe no man can be loyal to it without committing mortal sin. And these are the men who are most loud-mouthed and arrogant in dictating a war-policy to the administration, and saying what it must or, must not do in order to secure their support. Out upon such impudence! Let Wendell Phillips speak for himself and his little clique, and not for the people. Nobody expects him or his adherents to enlist, or to help the country in any way, or to do anything but abuse and insult those who are laboring and dying in its defence. The true way to silence these malignants is to present to them the oath of; allegiance. They won’t take it. They will deny that they are citizens of the United States. They merely live on the soil, but are voluntary aliens to the government. And yet these repudiators of the Constitution undertake to dictate to patriotic men how the Constitution is to be defended. Shame on them!—Springfield Republican,

THE REBELLION.
The rebellion, in its progress, but for the fanatic zeal of those who aided in precipitating it, would have indicated the means by which it could have been and should be crashed. Slavery, by its madness, would have brought about its own destruction. But in anticipating and in attempting to force” events.” instead of awaiting their development, the best hopes and highest prospects of the Union have been thwarted. The more than incendiary, the scarcely less than infernal spirit represented by Mr. Sumner in the Senate, Wendell Phillips in the Forum, and the Tribunes of the Press, has united the Southern people, and now threatens to divide the North. The speeches, lectures and fulminations from these sources have been used by secession leaders and journals to aggravate and intensify Southern hostility. The real character of the rebellion, in the eyes of its victims, has thus been changed.-Albany Evening Journal.
<c03>
Selections.
THE WHITE MAN’S WAR.
A fire broke out on Lake street last night about 11 o'clock. The wind was blowing a gale. The steam engines, from long disuse, were inefficient. The firemen, from the same cause, were blundering in their operations, and the orders issued by the captains of the different machines were contradictory and damaging. The flames, unchecked, roared and leaped like so many demons of destruction, and as they swept eastward toward the lake, westward toward the South branch, and northward over Water street, and among the shipping at the docks, laid anything low that they embraced. The banks, the splendid temples of commerce which the industry and taste of our merchants had reared, the dwellings of the rich and the humbler tenements of the poor, the shops of the artisans and the offices of the professional men, numberless hotels, a theatre, lecture room and lyceum, were taken up by the lurid heat and dissipated in flame and smoke. The ruin was immense; but the destruction of human life was appalling. The falling of every roof was an announcement that a company of gallant firemen, and hundreds of citizens who had volunteered to assist in stifling the destroyer, had been killed. The scene was terrific. Mothers went up and down the lurid streets seeking their sons. Fathers in agony assisted in bearing loved ones to homes that they were to honor no more. A wail filled the city from end to end, and thousands, not of women only, but strong men, prayed as if their last day had come. But neither work nor prayers stayed the destruction, and by and by the ranks of the helpers grew thin. The dead and maimed could work no more, and the others grew tired with the superhuman toil. Just before day, hardly an hour before we went to press, a thousand black men, living in the South Division, roused by the clangor of the bells, the cries of the wounded and the roar of the elements, came and offered their aid in beating back and subduing the conflagration. They had lived long in the city; they knew it well; they were fresh, healthy and accustomed to toil; they were eager to help;: and everybody knew that they were earnest in their offers. But higher than the conflict of fire and water, above the din of machinery, the groans of the wounded, the shrieks of women and the deep groans of men, rose the contention over the offer that the black men made. ”D–n the niggers," cried out the men who were more than suspected of being the incendiaries: ”Let them go home and do their tasks-—this is a white man’s fire!” At this point, while the fire is still burning, and the clamor in progress, we are obliged to go to press. God grant that our next issue may bring to our readers the settlement of the question on the side of public safety and humanity. A rumor comes that it is likely the blacks may be allowed to work to the leeward with house-pails. An elderly gentleman named Browning opposes even this. The fire is still making good headway as we close—Chicago Tribune. 
 
NECESSITY OF AN IMMEDIATE ALLIANCE WITH THE SLAVES OF THE REBELS.
SEVEN PINES, Va., June; 1862. 
 To whatever of reason and justice sensible men have to justify this alliance, I unhesitatingly add the testimony of a quarter of a year’s experience in our Peninsula war, that it is utterly impossible for us to subdue the rebels, without an alliance with their slaves.
 We demonstrated before Manassas that we needed the aid of the slaves. The history of war does not present an example of such chronic ignorance of the enemy’s strength and movements as we camped stolid under for six months, within ten miles of the foe. When they began to evacuate a cornfield, which only our thick ignorance had converted into a Sevastopol, we knew nothing of it. They marched away with cannon, wagons, food, baggage, everything-not leaving a dollar’s worth of property behind-making a faultless retreat. We knew nothing of it. A peddler from a New England State, driving a horse of the barebones breed, was the first man to enter the evacuated Manassas, and as he stood up in his wagon-front, gripping his clothes-line reins, was the first man to wonder at the puerile character of the school-yard dirt-works before which an army of over 200,000 men had been kept at bay. Nay, not kept at bay by the children’s dirt-works, but by the consequences of an ignorance, which could not possibly have been nursed and maintained, had the right hand of brotherhood been stretched out to the negroes in Richmond, and had the President or Commander-in-Chief said: ”Tell us what your War Department does; where the rebel forces are; how many they are; and tell us this daily, and you shall forever be free.” Wells, Butterfield & Co. never ran a surer express between Buffalo and Albany than the underground military express that would have been run between Richmond and Washington on this initial alliance between the white Union men of the North and the black Union men of the South. Initial alliance! Why, we have everywhere been helpless without these blacks, or exposed to hap-hazard. Landed at Fortress Monroe, and floundered through, the main road up to Hampton and above it-where were we? Without maps, without guides. The country was a wilderness. We had not a scrap of survey as big as the hand, that showed the courses of the innumerable wood-roads that wound through it. The old coast survey chart of the soundings of the York and James Rivers, with the turnpike to Yorktown, Williamsburg and Richmond, was the guide over which generals, compass in hand, guessed where this road led to-on what that debouched-where this would strike the Warwick River-and if that would give firm bottom to artillery. Where are the enemy? No one knew. It was safe to conclude that they were behind their line of defences which stretched across the Peninsula. Where are their defences? No one knew, save that when we got to Yorktown, we would find a part of them. The rest it was proposed to butt on to. Forward! Oh, how must the Genius of Rebellion have grinned from her outlook, at the unguided wandering, in an unmapped wilderness, of an army of invasion! Maps! Useless works of the engineering art, when negroes, live maps, that could see, and walk, and talk, and point with the index finger-crowds of them- stood expectant within reach of our army, and hungered and thirsted to be employed to conduct us to the enemy by the driest and best paths-maps capable of leading us, with unerring certainty, through the woods, to the lowest and weakest parts of the line of intrenchments the rebels had thrown up between the York and the James Rivers-aged maps, sold from plantation to plantation, through the Peninsula, and familiar from ancient coon-hunting, and still persistent night wandering, with every road and swamp in it, who, turning their backs upon those accursed cords of shovels; and pickaxes docked at Fortress Monroe, and walk-
<c04>
ing away from them with salvation speed, would have led our army right up to the places of weakness, and halting us in the wood, said to the commander, ”Dis am de place, Massa, where de army of de Lord and freedom can burst fru, just as fru a garden fence. Gib’em de bayonet, and leave de rest wid de Lord!” I knew 108,000 men in April last, who, under such guidance and such God-speed, would have stormed the gates of hell.
How self-evident it is that this alliance with the slaves would have saved the precious, time-wasting preparations to besiege Yorktown-have avoided the lazar-house curse of existence and toil on the Warwick River, and averted that slaughter of the innocents of the Vermont regiments at Lee’s Mills, whom Ayer’s steel-gauntletted hands stretched over, and dripping with flames and shooting shot and shell, could scarcely pluck from the bloody ruin upon which imbecility had hung them. You, whose crape and tears date from the sacrificial day of Williamsburg, will it comfort you to know that our attack there in front was unnecessary-that roads circled the enemy’s position-that slaves could have conducted us through them, and that by flank attacks we could have bagged or crushed the entire enemy we were pursuing? There is no doubt whatever about this. Unfortunately, there is just as little doubt that we had refused alliance to the slave. The retribution of our military error was terrible. Was it not just?—Correspondence of the New York Tribune. 

THE BLACK MAN IN THE ARMY.
Were we, in the course of our travels, to be caught in a quagmire, we should accept with alacrity the hand of any man who was willing to help us out, even though the hand were black. It is for this reason that we are in favor of employing the slaves in this war, in any way in which they are disposed to be useful. The nation is in the quagmire of Secession, and the negro happens to have a footing amid the bog, where he can ”lend us a lift” to get out. We say, welcome to the aid. Let him come and act with us as spy, scout, picket, trencher, garrison man, or otherwise. He is good, at ditching, as McClellan has shown. Let him have plenty of that work. Hunter says he yields easily to military discipline. Let him be tried on garrison, duty. For ourselves, we have not much faith in the fighting qualities of the negro. His nature seems to be too kindly and mellow for such work. And if he possessed the fighting qualities, would not the black race have hoisted long ago, with success, the banner of ”liberty or death?” But yet, Toussaint was a negro, and it was a black army which, in Hayti, routed and destroyed in field fights and in regular sieges, the best legions of France, fresh from the most famous fields of Europe. So, too, at the battle of New Orleans, the negroes fought with such courage and discretion as to elicit from Gen. Jackson a public proclamation of thanks. And in the Revolution, the same race lent such effective aid to the American cause as to draw forth special praise, in repeated instances, from the leaders of our arms. So the negro may make a fine soldier after all. The experiment is certainly worth trying, for if it succeeds, the Union cause will be greatly and speedily promoted. We have no doubt of the capacity of black regiments to perform garrison service-as well as any body. A black battalion might be raised in Massachusetts which could take care of Fort Warren and its rebellious contents, and allow our volunteer militia to return to their homes or to go South to the theatre of hostilities. Other garrisons might be similarly relieved. Black soldiers might well be employed in the Indian war which is now upon our hands on the Western Plains, and save the necessity of sending white troops there, when they are needed to crush the rebellion-Salem Observer.

WHY SHOULD THE NEGRO FIGHT?
There is no reason for the alarm expressed by conservatives about arming the negro. He is not likely to prove a valuable auxiliary on either side. If he is a rational being, he must certainly see that he has nothing to gain by becoming a partisan to the war. If he fights for the South, he but forges the fetter that perpetuates his servitude. If for the North, he but exchanges absolute serfdom for penned freedom, without civil or political rights. The iron band of prejudice in the Northern States is as circumscribing and unyielding upon him as the manacles that fetter his rebellious limbs, and hold him fast to the rice or cotton plantation, and it is difficult to say whether there are not compensations that make his hard lot in the South nearly as endurable as his condition in the North. If he is a slave, he is relieved, to some extent, of care, and at least has assured to him a hard livelihood. If he is free, he seeks subsistence in the face of innumerable obstacles, and under circumstances that make it precarious and often impossible. In the South, all legislaltion is directed to the sole object of holding him down; in the North, it is shaped so as to keep him from rising, and social prejudice runs with the drift of this legislation-often demanding more rigorous measures than are adopted. Not only is he excluded from political and social privileges to a great extent; in many of the States he is absolutely denied a residence, and an attempt to make them a place of habitation is declared to be a statutory crime.
 There are exceptions to these facts. Some negroes do, in the Northern States, in spite of the obstacles thrown in their way, accumulate property, educate their children, and obtain a limited respectability; but it is not by reason of any encouragement they receive from the community at large. In the South, exceptional cases exist, and they are frequently cited by advocates of the institution, as evidence of the benign workings of the system, though in fact they are not the result of it at all. Slavery is always cruel, and the modification of its cruelties grows out of circumstances independent of the system itself. So is that condition of freedom cruel, which tantalizes with the name, but denies its practical advantages.
 We repeat, then, that the negro, if rational, has no direct motive to induce him to take sides in the present war, but may have a vague hope that he may escape the statutory slavery of the South, and the virtual bondage to which he is subjected in the North, and be sent beyond the reach of both, to some land where he can start in the race of life with the chances of success equalized. When the war first broke out, many predictions of insurrections were indulged; but they were not realized. What were they to gain by making war on their masters? Perhaps a few of the lucky ones would have been paraded at the annual gatherings of the radical Abolitionists, to rehearse the story of their misfortunes, and draw out the fierce invectives and phillippies of the LLOYD GARRISONS and WENDELL PHILLIPSES of the humanitarian school. To be gazed at, talked about, and patted on the head, like other nine days' wonders, would have been most of the advantages flowing from their efforts to achieve, that freedom which endows a human being with all the attributes of manhood. And what else? If they consented
<c05>
to remain hoot-blacks, barbers, and hotel servants, they might be tolerated, or in their own circles might become teachers and pulpit oracles; but any attempt to enter lucrative professions and trades, or even engage to any extent in profitable employments, would be the signal for persecutions, insults, and hindrances, ending in a repression of such daring ambition, and the sudden extinguishment of the most illusive hopes. 
Now, these are facts, deny it who will. The negro has little to hope from Northern sympathy or legislation. Any attempt to engraft upon the organic law of the States provisions extending to the colored man political privileges is overwhelmingly defeated by the people. It makes no difference that here is a pen, and there a voice, raised in his behalf; the general verdict is against him, and its repetition in any case where it is demanded shows that it is inexorable. We talk a great deal about the vice of slavery, and the cruelty of denying to our fellow-men their personal freedom and a due reward of labor; but we are very careful not to concede the corollary, that the sin of withholding that freedom is not vastly greater than withholding the rights to which he who enjoys it is entitled.—Chicago Tribune. 

THE NEGRO REGIMENT AT PORT ROYAL.
The New York Times's correspondent writes as follows of the appearance and proficiency of Gen. Hunter’s negro regiment:- 
 “In the afternoon, in company with Rev. Mr. Gubby, Chaplain of the Third Rhode Island Artillery, now detailed as Chaplain to the General Hospital, I visited Camp Drayton, situated at the rebel General’s plantation, where the only loyal regiment furnished by the State of South Carolina is now in quarters. On the steps in rear of the rebel General’s house, and under the shade of the stately live-oaks covering the green sward stretching from the mansion down to the silver beach of Port Royal Bay, I found groups of naval and military officers, attracted by the curiosity of the spectacle about to be presented-no less than a regiment of free loyal blacks, with arms in their hands, ready to defend the liberty given them by the crime of their fugitive masters, and to uphold the Constitution and the laws, which, for the first time, are converted for them into the promise of blessing. Conspicuous among the naval officers present towered the tall form and bristled gray moustache of Commander Dupont, his crossed anchors and double stars glistening in the sunlight, and his manner manifesting the most eager interest in the scene. Around him were grouped a brilliant staff of Lieutenants, masters and midshipmen, all commenting diversely upon the experiment inaugurated by the Organization of this colored regiment. Presently from amid the white tents pitched in streets under the liveoak trees, eight companies of rescued bondsmen, in the uniform of the United States, with bayonets glistening, ’redeemed, regenerated, disenthralled,’ marched steadily out to the parade-ground, and formed in double line of review,. Having been accustomed during the last fifteen months to witness the evolutions of regiments in every stage of drill and discipline, from the raw three months’ men, who started for Annapolis in the end of April a year ago, to the soldierly quickness and precision of the cohorts organized during the long period of inactivity on the Potomac, I must say for myself-and in saying so, I am only echoing the opinion of every naval and military officer, without exception, who was present at the review in question- that the first South Carolina Volunteers, contraband of war though they be, and lately subject to the rigors of the Dred Scott decision, presented an efficiency in the manual of arms and the evolutions of parade such as I have never seen surpassed by any regiment of an equal time under tuition. The imitative tendency of the negro makes him acquire with great natural rapidity the motions of the drill-master, while his strong musical taste and perfect ear for time enables him to march with the harmony and unanimity of veteran regulars.
“When the review was presented by the Adjutant to Capt. Fessenden, of Gen. Hunter’s staff, commanding the regiment, a straighter line of bayonets or steadier body of men has seldom been seen. To every order given the response was quick and simultaneous-the regiment changing front, wheeling by column of company, forming line, dressing ranks, and going through all portions of a thorough review with a silent obedience and accuracy hardly to be surpassed by any white regiment now at Hilton Head. Commodore Dupont expressed himself to the effect and almost in the words I have used. He arrived in the South a thorough believer in the hopelessness of elevating the negro race, but like Paul on his journey to Damascus, he has seen a great light. His honest and capacious mind has been opened to the convictions of, evidence, and judging from such portions of his conversation as I had the honor of hearing during the review, and the subsequent church service, I believe he will excuse me for stating that he, for one, is not ashamed to confess a total revolution of opinion in regard to the negro question since be has been brought face to face with its realities, and that he is, to-day, an honest and sincere upholder of and believer in both the success and honesty of the experiment inaugurated by Gen. Hunter in arming the blacks."
WHY NOT EMPLOY THE BLACKS?
The Toronto Globe is the leading Liberal journal in the Canadas, and by far the most widely circulated of any British American sheet. The following is its comment on our recent battles:- 
“We look upon the events of the last few days as certain to cause a prolongation of the war for some months. The South will have increased courage to resist; the North will need a greater number of men, who cannot be drilled in a day, nor a month. Thousands of lives must be sacrificed, because the Washington authorities did not appreciate the situation. It is the old mistake of civilians directing military operations at a distance. Can it be wondered, as the prospect of the end of the rebellion becomes more remote, as it becomes clearer, that more and still more Northern men will perish ere the great fight against slavery can be successfully concluded, that the American people turn with greater liking to a trenchant weapon which they have within their reach, but hitherto have not used? It is one of the most extraordinary proofs of the force of an idea, that the Northern people have not long ere this insisted on the slaves being enlisted in their cause. They have been told so long that the realm of slavery is sacred soil, not to be profaned by Northern foot, that they cannot rid themselves of the idea, even when they are at deadly war with those who inculcated it. The North could enroll one hundred thousand colored men to work and fight for them, men who know the country, who can endure the climate better than the Southern, white, who would fight with desperation, feeling that victory would bring freedom and defeat death. Yet they are not enrolled. The North has not yet forgotten the crack of the
<c06>
slaveholder's whip in Congress. Supposing England engaged in a life and death struggle with the United States, how long would she neglect the opportunity of securing the co-operation of the slaves? Not an hour. She would hold that military policy and humanitarian motives combined to make such a
a movement advisable. Why should not the North adopt it? We deny altogether that it would lead to rapine. We believe that the blacks would be submissive and docile to their officers, and not so likely to ravage and murder as white soldiers. Let the Generals in command of the various armies along the shores of the gulf proclaim liberty to all slaves who will join the standard: let them be drilled and armed, and used along with white troops, so that they may be under control until discipline is fully established. At the close of the war, a large
large portion of the able-bodied men would be free, and the slavery question would have received its solution. Already, Gen. Hunter has taken one thousand colored men into his army, and has drilled them. His action has been approved of by the House of Representatives, after long debate, and his policy will probably be adopted on a larger scale at no distant day. Emancipation advances with every month’s resistance of the slave power. If Mr. Davis holds out another year, there will not be a slave left in the States at the end of 1863.

TERRIBLE REVELATIONS FROM THE SOUTH.
ANARCHY AND BARBARISM IN TEXAS - SLAVES
BURNED IN LOUISIANA-TESTIMONY OF A EUROPEAN
SAVANT.
The Independence Belge of July 6,1862, (says the New York Evening Post,) contains two very curious letters, written in April and May last by M. Honzeau, a savant of Belgium, who had been staying some time in Texas, but who recently tried to escape the horrors of civil war by seeking refuge in Mexico. ”We have received two of his letters,",” says L' Independence, ”and if they did not emanate from one of our countrymen whose good name and character are known to all, we would hesitate to publish statements which seem too horrible for credence. But we cannot doubt their truth, and print them to show the kind of men and the cause that the European partizans of American Secessionists would defend.".” We translate those letters, which are so well authenticated:-
“MATAMORAS, Mexico, April 27,1862.”
“You probably have conjectured that the blockade has kept me in Texas as in a besieged city, depriving me of all an communication with Europe. The government of planters here have increased this isolation by suspending the mailing of newspapers, and by suppressing most of the mail routes, whence results a state of isolation very favorable to ignorance and tyranny.
What I have seen about me, and what I have heard from the mouths of sufferers and witnesses, forms a frightful tale. I have forwarded a few pages to the Revue Trimestrielle since my arrival in Mexico. I could have increased the catalogue of atrocities which the slaveholders are accumulating to their eternal shame. I only wish to speak of facts which I can prove, but will add a few others which I believe to be perfectly veritable.
A pregnant woman being indisposed, her master had her whipped; to make her go to work. She dragged herself to the field, and fell upon the ground in the pangs of childbirth. Another punishment was here administered. The lash was applied, and brought off strips flesh which of the miserable women, who were so thick that one could actually see the lungs of the miserable woman, who, during this torture, gave birth to a still-born child, and a few minutes after died herself.
Another fugitive was hung hang up by the hands, and in that position perished of hunger; his master even had the cruelty to place near him a plate of smoking warm meat, which was renewed at each, meal time. One of the comrades of this martyr told me that his last words, in a low, dying voice, were,' ’Let me eat-—eat.'
I have seen free negroes banished, and freed slaves, when free papers were not preserved or in due form, sent back into slavery. When I say negroes, I wish to avoid the phrase' ‘persons of color,'’ for it is not so easy to find a purely black negro. The colored population, especially that portion of it which is free, is crossed in the first, second or third degree. There are among them persons whiter than you or I, and they suggest a pretty question in genealogy.
I have seen a German, who was for a time a slave in one of the territories, where the slavery of poor whites is freely defended. An odious attempt has been made to reestablish slavery in this part of Mexico. Civil war has been provoked here, and sustained by the subsidies, arms and ammunition furnished by the planters. Matamoras, where I now am, is in ruins after a three ‘months’ war, proportionately more murderous than the wars of Europe. Yet, notwithstanding the American cannon, the heroic population of this city, which has Indian blood in its veins, has repulsed the brigands who have assailed it from Texas.
What could I do in such scenes of confusion! My humble possessions were seized by these men. I had seen several of my neighbors killed in their fields, and a few of them scalped. Others had fallen beneath the axes of the furious Rangers, because they were Unionists. I had seen Bole Augustin cut up with knives before the Justice of Peace of San Antonio. I had seen another pursued by a man firing a revolver at him, till he fell, bleeding Wanting and dying in the market place. What should I do? What could I do? The path of duty seemed to be effaced. I was at once forced to leave my house, and leave, to the terrible Vigilance Committee four bare walls, and the ashes of my burned papers.
I only retained a memorial of the Unionists of San Antonio for the Cabinet at Washington, a document which, if found on my person, would hare been bean enough to have hanged me ten times over, as a spy or correspondent, or a Unionist. I rolled it up and hid it in the barrel of my rifle, and the American consul at Matamoras, an energetic citizen of New England,; to whom I transferred it on my arrival here, has forwarded it to Mr. Lincoln, who, by this time, must have received it.
I cannot express to you my satisfaction on finding myself free on this side of the Rio Grande. Would that my voice could be heard all over Europe. The Southern States are witnesses of a criminal attempt which rivals the most bloody and abhorred cruelties of the Inquisition. To this sanguinary tyranny is added a throng of terrible passions-–all of those passions which are engendered by the possession of man (or woman) by man., There are no longer limits, no longer, restraint, no longer modesty. Near to Seguin (Texas) a master was recently struck by a slave for having in his presence attempted to violate the honor of his negro wife. Of course, the negro husband was hanged.
In this pretended political movement of the South, there is a return, to barbarism, which the customs of the times, the spirit of our country, and our ideas of humanity and religion cannot permit. This impious
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES; but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN DE INTERFREED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAME.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and heathenish attempt, which openly adopts as its motto, ‘The extension and perpetuity of slavery' -this criminal attempt cannot succeed. The question of the liberation of the slaves assumes every day a more practical form.”
LETTER NO. 2.
“MATAMORAS, Mexico, May 13. 
“I am lucky, after having lost all my property, in saving myself from hanging as an Abolitionist. I have had a hard journey hither from San Antonio, and have found here a true friend in the American consul.
I have lost, all my goods, and was forced to burn all my papers, including all my notes on the condition of society in the South, which, though very moderate, were tinged with an Abolitionism (or rather with equity) out of place there. I had also too much delicacy to leave these papers in the charge of any of my friends, thus exposing them to danger. 
Our position as regards Texas is deplorable; the postal communication with Brownsville, and between Texas and Mexico, Mexico, is quite broken off. 
Ah, my dear S-, with what satisfaction have I escaped from that region of tyranny and oppression! The history of this impious war, for ‘the extension and perpetuity of slavery, will never be fully written. No one can tell it all. What blind rage and hate! New Orleans is taken. Well, you who live far away cannot comprehend the delirium this has raised. Before surrendering it, the planters burned their cotton, their sugar, their steam cotton-presses and their refineries. They preferred this to confiscation, and the thought that their goods would enrich their enemies. But-shame and crime unparalleled-they also burned their slaves. Think of the degree of insane fury to which they were carried! They preferred to burn their slaves rather than to see them emancipated. Those who committed this atrocity-unparalleled in history particularly, because it did not hurt their enemies-those who did this deed called their inoffensive blacks together, and sent them into five work-shops, and locked the doors; the fire was lighted, and quickly did its work, while the masters waited outside to shoot with their rifles the child, the old man, the woman, or any who might leap from the window or roof, to escape the dreadful flames. 
I do not speak of the banks from which the deposits have been seized for the army. They amounted to one hundred millions of francs; but what are a hundred millions of francs to the hecatombs of the servants who by the sweat of their brow supported their infamous masters? The sacrifice of life and property in this terrible war is absolutely incalculable. People have fought with courage, with heroism and fanaticism for causes, if not perfectly righteous, at least justifiable. I could have understood the planter fighting to assure himself of indemnity in case of abolition, or to obtain a gradual emancipation spreading over twenty or fifty years. But I cannot comprehend an obstinacy earned to fury to establish and impose that which is unjust, impossible, inhuman, absurd, condemned by every religion, philosophy, system, and nation-I mean the claim for ‘slavery, universal and perpetual.” 
This revolution will in time be regarded as the great feature of modern history, not only because it hastens the freeing of American slaves, but because it furnishes the most wonderful example of social monomania-a furious monomania contracted under a long influence of the very spirit of despotism and pride.”
REBEL BARBARISM Among the many acts of barbarism which the rebels have practised upon our troops, the following deserves a prominent place. One of Commodore Porter's mortar boatmen fell into the hands of a regiment of Arkansas troops day before yesterday. He made no resistance whatever, but finding himself a prisoner, yielded a quiet submission to his fate. His captors, instead of treating him as a prisoner of war, marched him into the woods about half a mile distant, tied him with his hands behind his back to a tree, and deliberately cut his bowels open with a dirk knife. They then cut his heart out, and hung it upon a tree The unfortunate victim's agonizing cries for mercy were drowned in the unearthly yells of the Southern fiends, as they cried, “Cut his heart out,” “Tear the abolition heart out of him,” etc. Let those who speak of conciliation think of this-and it is a fact which cannot be gainsayed, as I learn it from men who witnessed it, and who have little sympathy for the cause of Unionism. A deserter who came into our lines yesterday confirms every word of it, and says that General Van Dorn intends to give no quarter to any of our men, who may fall into his hands- Vicksburg Correspondence of the Cincinnati Commercial. 

AN UNTIMELY JOKE. 
The most unfortunate reputation a man can have, next to that of being a positive liar, is that of the habitual and inevitable joker. The straighter he keeps his face, and the more solemn and earnest he appears, after he has acquired the character of the joker, the more people will believe he is poking fun at them. And no matter about the occasion, no matter if there is a corpse in the house, the reputed joker cannot put his handkerchief to his eyes, but every one will be laughing at him. For this he is mostly to blame himself, yet it must be acknowledged that as a general thing he willingly accepts his position, endures its penalties, and for the love of being known as “the order of misrule,” sinks his finer feelings and integrity for the indulgences of the buffoon. Our President, Abraham Lincoln, has the fatal repute of being a joker; and however much it is to be deprecated in the private citizen, it is most deplorable when it crops out on the most serious occasions in the outgoings of the chief magistrate of a great nation. In order, professedly, to break the back of this most heinous and wicked rebellion, the Congress of the United States has toiled throughout the entire session toward the framing of'” an Emancipation and Confiscation bill.” We have thought and stated a year ago that all the necessary power for prosecuting war against enemies of the country was vested in the Commander-in-chief; but did not object to Congress sharing in some degree the responsibilities incident to such a momentous occasion. Congress having trained the gun, loaded, primed it-and having put a match in the hand of the President that he might touch it off, when the people are breathless with excitement and expectation, at the very crisis of our existence as a nation, this most unfortunate habit of joking takes the mastery of Mr. Lincoln, and so, in accordance with his infirmity, he issues a proclamation in relation to the employment of negroes “as laborers within, and from said States, giving reasonable wages for their labor.” 
Then comes thirdly-“That as to both property and persons of African descent.” Did these Africans descend with property other than their dusky hides to this country?” “In quantities and amounts, and from whom both property and such persons shall have-come, as a basis upon which compensation can be made in proper cases.” Such is the manner in which the President treats the grave matter of taking the initiative towards giving freedom to some four millions of bondsmen, and enlisting their sympathies and energies in favor of our glorious cause. That we need their help in this fearful crisis, the whitening bones of the patriots on the Peninsula, the victims of the trenches, too plainly tell. We have been admonished again and again of our utter dependence, in this war, upon the negro race; and yet, as if God in his wisdom, for some great purpose, had stricken our rulers with fatuus blindness, they have persisted in not regarding the warning. 
But we cannot treat this aberration of the President seriously. He will have his joke, and knowing this, it would be doing him an injustice to suppose that he means what his unfortunate Executive order would make him appear to mean. He is only making a sly poke at the people who are on tip-toe to hear his words, that will burn and fire the brains of the African bondsmen with new aspirations and love for liberty, such as will bind them forever in bonds of love and gratitude to the Union and laws, which first thrilled them with the awakening dawn of freedom. Instead of this, we find the inevitable joker talking of the "“quantities and amount of property and persons of African descent,” with a dim foreshadowing that restitution will be made, either in kind or cash, for “such” property and persons of African descent.” Verily, if this don't inspire Sambo with patriotic enthusiasm, there is no strength in language nor governmental assurance. Why should he hesitate, after being so feelingly appealed to? Why should he not throw down the shovel and hoe at once? A proper “account” will be given of him “in amounts and quantities,” and if he tells the truth about it, his fugacious master (from whom his “person shall have come,” or his master went, as the case may be, we suppose) will have the darkey's statement as “a basis of compensation” Poor Sam-
<c02>
bo is the basis, after all-the corner-stone of the new civilization. 
Mr. Lincoln's jokes are now becoming chronic with him. It was perhaps well enough to play upon the nerves of the Progressive Friends-plain-spoken Quakers-by perpetrating that ghastly pleasantry as to old John Brown of Harper's Ferry, and the freedom-giving proclamation of Gen. Hunter; but really, at this time, when our army is in the greatest peril, and liable to be cut off from supplies any day, on the James river, when all the means and the men that the Government can muster are urgently demanded by the exigencies of the war-it may be esteemed “cool” for the Chief Magistrate to indulge in whimsicalities in regard to serious matters, but we submit that his “quips and jibes” “are, to say the least, UNTIMELY.—Patterson Weekly Guardian. 

SLAVERY IN THE WAR.
LETTER FROM GENERAL HUNTER TO THE REV. STEPHEN H. TYNG. 
HEADQUARTERS DEP'T OF THE SOUTH,) HILTON HEAD, Port Royal, S. C., July 17, 1862. 
Rev. Stephen H. Tyng, President of the National Freed-
Man’s Relief Association, New York City: 
SIR,—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication dated June 2,1862, expressing to me the approval of my course in regard to the freed slaves of this Department, by the important and benevolent association of which you are President.
Satisfied of having attempted, in the absence of instructions, to do my duty in the matter, according to the best lights of my judgment and a long experience, every assurance of sympathy from men whose characters I esteem is gratifying, and enables me to wait with more patience for those inevitable days which are to give a policy on the slavery question to our Government.
It is my only fear that the lesson may not be understood and acted upon until read in characters of blood at the fireside of every Northern family. To attain wisdom, we must suffer; but that wisdom on the slavery question must finally be obtained, is my sustaining faith.
Our people are not dull of comprehension in regard to matters about which free play is given to their common sense. When a fire is spreading through a block of houses, they do not hesitate to batter down an intermediate house to save the remainder of the block. When the plague occupies an infected district, the district is quarantined, and every resource of science and industry put forth to rid the locality of its presence. The soldiers of health are by no means ordered to mount guard over each smitten house, and see that the vested interests of pestilence are protected. “Break open doors if they be not opened,” is the order on these occasions. “Let in fresh air and sunlight: let purity replace corruption.”
But in presence of one great evil, which has so long brooded over our country, the intelligence of a large portion of our people would seem paralyzed and helpless. Their moral nerves lie torpid under its benumbing shadow. Its breath has been the pestilence of the political atmosphere in which our statesmen have been nurtured; and never, I fear, until its beak is dripping with the best blood of the country, and its talons tangled in her vitals, will the free masses of the loyal States be fully aroused to the necessity of abating the abomination, at whatever cost and by whatever agencies.
This is written, not politically, but according to my profession in the military sense. Looking forward, there looms up a possibility (only too possible) of a peace which shall be nothing but an armistice, with every advantage secured to the rebellion. 
Nothing can give us permanent peace but a successful prosecution of the war, with every weapon and energy at our command, to its logical and legitimate conclusion. The fomenting cause of the rebellion must be abated; the axe must be laid to the root of the upas tree which has rained down such bitter fruit upon our country, before anything like a permanent peace can be justly hoped.
Already I see signs in many influential quarters, heretofore opposed to my views in favor of arming the blacks, of a change of sentiment. Our recent disasters before Richmond have served to illuminate many minds. 
To speak of using the negroes merely for throwing up intrenchments is a step in the right direction, though far short of what must be the end. It has the advantage, however, of making the further and final steps necessary, for men working in face of the enemy must have arms with which to protect themselves if suddenly attacked. 
On the whole, there is much reason to be satisfied with the progress made by public sentiment, considering how deeply-rooted were the prejudices to be overcome, the general failure of the nation to realize at first the proportions of the war, and the impunity still extended to those Northern traitors who are the plunderers of the Government by means of fraudulent army and navy contracts, on the one hand, while using every energy of tongue and pen to excite discontent with our Government, and sympathy with the more candid and courageous traitors of the South who are in arms against us. 
In conclusion, it may not be inappropriate to say, that in transmitting the approval of the National Freedman's Relief Association of my course, you were-doubtless unconsciously-endorsing views which your own earnest eloquence had no slight share in maturing. Though without the pleasure of your personal acquaintance, I was, during a year, a member of your congregation, and take this opportunity of gratefully acknowledging my indebtedness to your teachings. 
Your letter would have been earlier answered, had not pressing duties too fully occupied my time.
Believe me, Sir, very truly, your obliged and obedient servant, D. HUNTER.
P. S. None of the carefully-fostered delusions by which slavery has sustained itself at the North is more absurd than the bugbear of “a general migration of negroes to the North,” as a necessary sequence of emancipation. So far is this from being the fact, that although it is well known that I give passes North to all negroes asking them, not more than a dozen have applied to me for such passes since my arrival here, their local attachments being apparently much stronger than with the white race. My experience leads me to believe that the exact reverse of the received opinion on this subject would form the rule, and that nearly if not quite all the negroes of the North would migrate South, whenever they shall be at liberty to do so without fear of the auction-block. Sincerely, D. H. 

COLORED REGIMENTS. 
A deputation of prominent citizens waited upon the President on Monday morning of last week, to ascertain if he would accept the services of negro regiments. The case was fairly put before Mr. Lincoln. It was represented to him that regiments of blacks -could be formed and equipped, to be commanded by white officers, and that their services would be of great benefit to the country. It was also urged that the rebels armed their slaves, and used them against us. Mr. Lincoln replied that he could not accept regiments of negroes, but that he would accept as many as would offer their services as laborers. 
Per contra, Gov, Sprague of Rhode Island has issued the following proclamation:-
STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE, Providence, Aug. 4, 1862. 
General Orders, No. 36.
The 6th Regiment, authorized by the Secretary of War under date October 23d, 1861, and orders issued therefor from this department, No. 103, Dec. 28, 1861, will consist entirely of colored citizens. Enlistment will commence immediately. Camp will be established under direction of General Robbins, who is directed to organize the Regiment. 
The Quartermaster General will furnish rations and equipments on requisition. 
Our colored fellow-citizens are reminded that the Regiment from this State in the Revolution, consisting entirely of colored persons, was pronounced by Washington equal, if not superior, to any in the service. They constitute a part of the quota from this State, and it is expected they will respond with zeal and spirit to this call.
The Commander-in-Chief will lead them into the field, and will share with them, in common with the patriotic soldiers of the Army of the Republic, their trials and dangers, and will participate in the glories of their successes.
By order of the Commander-in-Chief,
EDWARD C. MAURAN, Adj’t. Gen’l.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 8, 1863.
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST. 
The anniversary of the day which gave freedom to eight hundred thousand slaves in the British West Indies was celebrated at Abington, on Friday last, by a large gathering of those who are laboring and hoping, with earnestness and faith, for the coming of a like jubilee-day in this land, when four millions of chattels shall be delivered out of the house of bondage, and transformed from marketable commodities into “the Lord's freemen” Notwithstanding the inauspicious aspect of the morning, a goodly number left this city at the appointed hour, who were met, at Abington, by large delegations from Plymouth and other places on the line of the railroad, while from the more immediate neighborhood came troops of holiday-dressed people, in carriages and on foot. A peculiarly gratifying feature of the occasion was the large number of our colored friends present, men, women and children, to whom this day especially commends itself as one to be held in grateful remembrance and joyfully commemorated. In consequence of the threatening aspect of the weather, it was deemed advisable to meet in the Town Hall rather than the Grove, for the morning session, at least, and accordingly the people were invited there, and soon packed the hall to overflowing. 
At 10½ o’clock, the meeting was called to order by SAMUEL MAY, Jr., who read, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, a list of officers, which was unanimously accepted by the meeting, as follows:-
For President-WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 
For Vice Presidents-ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, ELMER HEWITT, JOSHUA PERRY, ELIAS RICHARDS, WILLIAM G. BABCOCK, EDWARD G. BENNETT, RUFUS BATES, JOSIAH HAYWARD, BENJAMIN F. HUTCHINSON, ROBERT ADAMS, ATKINSON STANWOOD. 
For Secretaries-SAMUEL MAY, JR., J. M. W. YERRINTON. 
For Finance Committee-J. G. DODGE, SAMUEL DYER, MARY WILLEY, ANNE CANNAN, WILLIAM C. NELL. 
Mr. GARRISON, on taking the chair, said-The day on which we are assembled is an occasion in which the Abolitionists have a right to rejoice and be glad. It vindicates their principles, their doctrines and their measures, as all eminently wise and just. We always asserted, before emancipation took place, that it would result in good, and nothing but good, to those who had been the oppressors and to those who had been the oppressed; that there would be no tumults, no disorders, no shedding of blood, no desolation, but every thing peaceful, happy, joyous and prosperous,; and after an experience of twenty-eight years, we find the truth of all our assertions demonstrated in regard to the safety and the righteousness of emancipation. 
We are not here, of Course, to eulogize the English government, as such, for having emancipated the slaves in the colonies, because that government was simply moved upon by the irresistible moral and religions sentiment of the United Kingdom. We are here to do homage to the noble men and women who for so many years in England gave themselves with untiring devotion to the cause of the enslaved in the West India islands. We are here to rejoice in the results of the experiment, and have no cause to be otherwise than thankful and triumphant in spirit. During that long struggle, so far as our country was concerned, never a cheering word went over to those who were endeavoring to get slavery abolished in those islands; and when the Emancipation Act was passed by the British Parliament, there was no rejoicing on the part of the people of the United States, in view of that grand and glorious even-none whatever. So far from any thing of that kind, we had nothing but evil predictions, as to the terrible consequences that would assuredly follow as the natural results of such an act! And why should it not have been so? A slaveholding, slave-breeding, slave-driving, slave-trading nation, as ours has been and continues to be, how could it or can it sympathize in an event like that which we are here as Abolitionists to celebrate?
Mr. Garrison then said that they were favored with the presence of quite a large number of speakers, and suggested that each one should study to be as brief as possible in the remarks that he should make, in order that the audience might have an opportunity to hear from them all. 
The jubilee hymn, commencing 
“Come, friends of freedom all,
Glad voices let us raise,”
was then sung, to the good old tune of “Lenox,” after which, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, of Boston, made an earnest and eloquent speech, the substance of which will be published hereafter. After the singing of another appropriate hymn, Rev. MONCURE D. CON-WAY, of Cincinnati, was introduced, who said:-
SPEECH OF REV. M. D. CONWAY.-
MR. CHAIRMAN,-We have heard it said, until the saying has become trite, that we are now in the midst of the ordeal of Republican Government You will observe the difference that is now being manifested between sham Democracy-or that which calls itself Democracy, and it possibly is worthy of that name-and real Republicanism. Mr. Lincoln is now carrying to its uttermost extent the idea of a simple dictation of the people as to the methods of government. He proceeds upon the idea that the people are to do what they have appointed him to do. He starts with the idea, and acts upon it, that he is there simply as the tool of the people-a tool which the masses are to move; and that the various men throughout the country who make shoes and sell them, who weave, who spin, who farm, actually must be the judges of all the methods of government and of all political action whatever. According to that idea of Democracy, the President is simply eking out the matter until we shall have a Yankee who is smart enough to invent an automaton President, that shall sit there at Washington, and whenever the people can all go to their telegraphs, and touch that President machine, at the White House, it will, according as one party or the other touch the most telegraphic wires, veto or approve a particular measure. He is simply staying there, and receiving $25,000 a year, until we can get a machine that will sign measures; absolutely worse than worthless, because, while the people are being educated, they must be behind their experience; they mast come up just in time to be too late. For instance, as the people come forward, their sentiment and feeling must be always represented; that is what is meant by a representative government. A great writer has written a book upon “Representative Men” Look at them! Was any one of them a mere follower of majorities? Was any one of them the mere tool of majorities? Was Plato, was Montaigne? No; every one of them was a stemmer of the popular current. Every Representative man is an interpreter of the feeling and sentiment of the people; but he does not wait to have the people dictate to him every man he shall appoint a General, and every bill he shall sign. A great representative of the people is an interpreter of the moral sense of the people, who gives them not what they pray for, but what they actually need, and which they find out that they need after he has given it to them. So Plato and Swedenborg are representative men, not because they represent the donkeyism of the people, but their real, deep heart, and their sentiment, which is always setting right You will observe, therefore, that when the people get a clear method before their eyes, and say, “If you will dig ditches and spade in the swamps, you shall have this done by the natural laborers of that country,” it is just too late. They come to it by experience-because it is so plain that no wayfaring man can mistake it. They come to it because they have been scourged to a clear sight of it. They come to it because the men whom they place in front to do the work have failed to see it, and they have been forced to turn from their em-
<c04>
ployments of the field and the shop to do what they are paying men large sums to do for them. That is the reason why the people are called upon to do what they have paid the government to think out and do for them, while they attend to the trade and business of the country. Observe, when they come to that, IT IS TOO LATE. The President proclaims that the negroes shall be employed to do the labor of the camp. If he had done that himself, before he was forced to it by the sense of the people, as he ought to have done, as an honest President, it would have saved us 65,000 men who have perished in the swamp of the Chickahominy, and in the trenches before Corinth. If he had sent forth that now miserable, pusillanimous proclamation only three months ago, it would have saved us 65,000 stalwart men who lie buried, struck down by disease, because those natural laborers were not employed. And it will be so throughout the war. The proclamation of emancipation will come, but it will come just like this-too late to be of any practical benefit, so far as the country is concerned. After awhile, the people will force the President to emancipate, just as they forced him to employ negro laborers in the army; but it is not the true idea of our government that the President shall be an automaton, waiting for months until the people, scourged by suffering, shall force him to do what he ought to have done long before. 
Well, down in Washington, where I have been spending two weeks, trying to cut some red tape, I got an idea, and it is important to announce, because that is a thing which is rarely grown in that region of country. (Laughter.) The ancients had a fable, that the world rested on an elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise. Now, the ancients had a vision of this country when they said that. The elephant is our army, and the only disagreeable fact about it is that that army rests on Abraham Lincoln; and if he is not a tortoise, there never was one made by God Almighty! It is impossible for Abraham Lincoln to move faster than the tortoise; he has tried it, and it is “no go.” (Laughter and applause.) He has got a heavy shell upon his back. He got it at his birth, for that is the kind of animal that grows in Kentucky. Creation stopped in that State when it got to the tortoise. There it sticks; it is the nature of the man; and it is of no use to try to make a rapid military genius out of the President; and if any man expects to make a leader of him, who will free the country in the only way in which it can be freed, I give him fair warning that it is impossible-I bid him despair.-“All hope abandon, ye who enter here!” See the men he has called around him! McClellan has gone down to the Peninsula, and what has he done? Look at his position! He stands on the banks of the James River, on a small neck of land, between a swamp and the river. I have been there, and know. At that point, the river is deep enough to admit a narrow line of gunboats. About ten miles below, it deepens and widens; but for ten miles, the river is so situated that it would be impossible for McClellan to make a safe retreat. There he is, and there he has got to stand and meet his doom. He cannot retreat, for if he were to attempt to send off the army in detachments, those who were left, while some went away in ships, would be instantly captured by the rebels. Neither can the army be halved, and one half sent away, for the remaining half would be in immediate danger. Moreover, if he could get transports for the whole army, he could not carry them down the river those ten miles, for the rebels would sink every ship, as they have got all their light artillery on the river bank. He is absolutely isolated. He has chosen that bad plan, that foolish plan, to enter Richmond; he has got there, and there he must stay. He is not strong enough to reach Richmond in that way. What is the hope? Of course, we are hoping that Pope may make such an attack upon the other side of Richmond that McClellan may have a better chance on his side; but the rebels have made their entrenchments so perfect on that side, that, even if he had more men than they, he could not advance upon Richmond from that point. Why is that? Because, as Senator Chandler said, he went and sat down in a big swamp, and began ditching. The President finds a third of his army gone. He looks about for help. Where will he find it? He takes the man who has sat down before Corinth, half his army sick with dysentery, who refused to allow a single negro within his lines to work on those trenches, who sat there until the enemy's army left, satisfied he was not going to make an attack, in order to assist their fellow-rebels in another place. Sixty-three thousand men were lost from that army, by sickness and the battle of Shiloh. The President calls that man to Washington, to crown the work of McClellan, sitting in the swamp of the Chickahominy. Now, why has the President done this? Because he is sailing in the same boat with McClellan and Halleck. He is just as slow as they are. His policy is ditching and spading-digging us into freedom. He goes on politically precisely as Halleck and McClellan do strategetically, and, like them, has got only to a political Chickahominy swamp. 
You know that Halleck and McClellan act in this war precisely as if they had been stealing forts from the South, and the South was trying to get them back; as if they were trenching and digging everywhere, and saying, “You shall not have your forts back.” I saw this man Halleck the other day at Harrisburg, and it is enough to look in his face to know what sort of a man he is. He has the look of a Gadgrind about him. His nose-which is always a characteristic feature, and the guage of vigor in a human being -is what the French call “the suicide nose,” that is, it is joined to a temperament morose and desperate, and that does not place much of an estimate on himself or any body else. He reminds me of what Montaigne thought, that there were not six men alive who ought not to have been hanged six times, and he did not care to except himself from the number. (Laughter.) A nose with an excessively acute angle! Napoleon selected his Marshals with reference to their noses -several of his most distinguished ones, at least. That was his habit. He sat in a room, and had all the men who were mentioned for promotion pass through the room. They came in at one door, and went out at the other. When they came in, they bowed, and he pointed to the door, saying not a word,-men whom he had never seen before, or had never examined, with reference to their qualifications. But when a particular man came in, he would say.” There is my man; put him down; he has got the right nose.” (Laughter.) Now, Gen. Halleck has got just the kind of nose that makes a hard, selfish, morose, melancholy man. He has got a narrow brain, and a hard, selfish eye. He is the impersonation of Order No. 3,-that is the most I can say for him. 
Then there is Mr. Stanton. I had some conversation with him the other day, and I found that he was a man nervous, quick, and very talkative, but not a man of power, and a man of no vision whatever. The most important thing that was impressed upon my mind, from conversation both with Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Stanton was this: they do not see any thing at all in the slavery question, but a troublesome thing. You remember that when the Progressive Friends called on the President, he said that office-holding was the most troublesome thing he had to deal with, and next to that was slavery. He and Stanton do not seem to look at it in the light of a great military advantage-in the light of a great weapon, the brightest in all their armory, with which they can, at any moment strike down the rebellion; they look at it simply as a dreadful vexation. That is fatal. Mr. Stanton is disposed to treat the contrabands of the South well, but it never occurs to him that he has any military advantage in connection with them. His idea is simply to have them properly educated, and finally make them owners of the land; and perhaps, away off in the future, arm them. He does not see, the President does not, that, in these circumstances, he can wield slavery with tremendous effect; and the man who has not the sense to sees that, what can he do in this country in the present emergency? 
Now, all we can get during the reign of Lincoln is
<c05>
some education of the people. That is all we can get until our time of revolution comes. You have no idea how fast, in the West, this education is going on. A negro man, on a Western car, lay, in the middle of the night, coiled up on a seat in the cars, fast asleep. A nicely dressed white man came in, and looked round, trying to find a seat. He went to this negro, and shoved him, and said, “Wake up, here “What’s the matter? “I want a seat.” “I am a nigger; yon don't want to sit by me, do you?” “I don't care whether you are a nigger or not; I want a seat.” That is a sign. When a man is Willing to sit down with a negro rather than stand up all night in a railroad car, it indicates a great change. (Laughter.) By and by, I expect to see the United States willing to live With the negro, and have him ditch and spade for them, rather than die. You have no idea how much is to be done in Washington, Baltimore, and in all the border States. The other day, William Henry Channing, the faithful minister at Washington, was walking in the street, and he saw a man with brass buttons on his coat-and I suppose he was a soldier- who was about to knock a negro down with a pavingstone.  “What are you going to do?” says Channing, seizing him by the arm. “That nigger struck a white man; I am not going to stand by, and see a white man struck by a d-d nigger.” “Didn’t the white man strike him first?” “Yes, he did; but isn't he a nigger?” Channing said- “This is a land of equal rights.” The man looked at him utterly paralyzed, The stone fell from his hand, and with a gasp for breath he walked away. (Laughter and applause.) Now, two-thirds of the people of the United States are just in that state of mind; and as soon as we seize is them by the arm, rather roughly, and tell them, “Equal rights with this d-d nigger!” I am sure we shall paralyze them with astonishment, at least. 
Washington, as I came out of it, seemed to me a mad and doomed city; and I felt as though I could take off my shoes, and shake from them every particle of dust that belonged to it. It seemed to me to be the representative, the symbol, of a state of things that must pass away, and is passing away. It seemed to me to be the representative of a past stratum of this country, a sign, like some old Saurian, of an era that can never return; and I felt, that with the epoch which it represents, Washington city must pass away; pass into the fossil condition; be embedded with the past, so that upon its ruins we can lay the corner-stone of a Free republic. (Applause.) It seemed to me that its doom was written all over it and all around it. In Maryland, which borders Washington city, the spirit of the people, even Unionists, is so determinedly pro-slavery, they do so hug to their hearts the Viper that is stinging them to death, they are so resolved that harm shall not come to the dragon that devours them, that I fear they will have to pass along to their graves together. I was trying to get some negroes through Baltimore. It took me about two weeks to get those thirty-one negroes into Ohio, where I wished to take them. There they were in the District-contrabands. If I had left them there, each of them would have had to receive an army ration from the government; each of them, would have been in the hands of the government; so much money gone; and yet, so powerful was red tape, that nobody seemed to know who could give any permission to those contrabands to go North, or to go out of the District. Mr. Stanton scratched his head over it, and turned and twisted over it, and almost stood on his head over it, (laughter,) and he wanted to give some money to help get them off; but I would not take any money. I did not want his money; I wanted his authority. Well, he could not give it. And Mr. Lincoln, he unwound himself to a very great length, (laughter,) and then wound him self up again over it; he appreciated the state of the case a great deal, but did not seem to see what he could do about it. So we went from one to another. Finally, we had a consultation in Mr. Sumner’s room, to try and devise some plan by which these contrabands could be got away, and everybody failed-even Mr. Sumner could not see the way clear. There was one man there-I forget his name-who sat very profoundly cogitating how we could get these negroes out to Ohio. The difficulty was to get them across Baltimore from one railroad to another, and so North, for the Baltimore railroads will not allow any negro to go over their roads, unless he gives bonds to a fabulous on extent. As I said, there was one man at Mr. Sumner’s room, who sat cogitating over this subject; he did not say anything at first, but scratched his head and looked very profound; and we all began to feel that that man, when he spoke, would have a profound idea, We looked for it, we expected it, and finally we got a little nervous, as people will who expect a sharp flash of lightning, and it does not come. At last, that man raised his head and said. “You want to take those negroes through Baltimore, through Maryland?” “Yes, that is what I desire.” “There is but one way to do it. You buy fifty feet of rope, and tie every buggar's hands behind him, and all Baltimore will bow down to you. They will be sure you are a big slave-holder, taking your slaves through Baltimore into Harford County, to keep them from being freed in Washington.” That man hit the nail on the head. I did not have the courage to carry out his suggestion, but I have no doubt it illustrated the real feeling of Baltimore; for I felt, when we did at last get through that city, that nothing on earth but the signature of a Major General, backed by the bayonets of Northern soldiers, kept the mob spirit from overwhelming us. We went through that city for a mile and a half, and stopped at the depot for three hours, and nothing but that little bit of paper protected us from the muttering crowd around. 
After all, I could not help feeling that there was some advantage in having things as they are, because the time was when I could not have got that name on a little bit of paper, when I could not have got those people through Baltimore at all. The time had come when at least thirty-one human beings could be carried straight through the heart of a slave State into liberty (applause); and although that did not reflect much glory on the Government, or afford much prospect of its success, it did show, that despite the clouds with which weak men would blind us, this is the Golden Hour for the land. 
Now, my friends, I think you Northern people are cursed with loyalty-loyalty, I mean, to forms and technicalities. We Southern people do not care so much about that. I never did myself. You Northern people will follow, follow, and follow. There is Mr. Sumner's letter about President Lincoln. I am very sorry he wrote it. It gives the people a false idea, a false hope, which will lead them into an abyss if they follow it. Mr. Lincoln will never save this country. We shall be happy if we can, from month to month, keep ourselves from going to wreck under this administration, for a year or two, and then we shall as know what we shall do. If we can succeed, through boldness, through moral courage, through stalwart determination, and standing by our principles, in keeping the ship together for a year or so, then either we shall elect a Democratic President, who will put the nation under the heel of Jeff. Davis, or we shall have Fremont in the Presidential chair, and Gen. Hunter will be Secretary of War. (Loud applause.) We must go one way or the other. We must elect one or the other. We are either to be saved or ruined, Perhaps, looking at the case of the nation now, we are disposed to limit the great work of God. Perhaps we think so much of the United, States alone, that we would be glad to limit this revolution. There are indications, my friends, that this revolution is to is be world-wide before it is ended. There are indications that all nations are to be sucked into this maelstrom, and that when we are free, the world will be free too. (Applause.) I can interpret in no other way the ineffable stupidity of our rulers. I can in no other way interpret the fact, that is this great emergency, we have a tortoise for President, except that, through the dreary lengths of a long war, gradually France, England, Russia, all monarchies and absolutisms, are to be drawn into this controversy that sweeps over the land, the elements will melt with fervent heat, and the whole world be baptized with a
<c06>
fiery baptism and be redeemed. Let them come on! I say to the tyrants of the Old World, “What those doest, do quickly!” I hope that England and France will intervene. Let them! It will only bring us shoulder to shoulder. Even the Democrats will be in favor of abolishing slavery to hold the South, while we attend to Europe; because, much as they love slavery, the Democrats, especially the Irish, would rather whip England than do any thing else on the face of the earth. If they intervene, it will save us but it will be by a great and sweeping purification of this world; and we ought not to be so selfish, since God has given us stupid men to lead us in this. War, as to say that it ought to be settled up quick. It would be agreeable to our feelings, it would be pleasant to see the death-blow of the rebellion struck at once, for when slavery is struck, the rebellion lies dead; but we ought to remember that there are other hearts that groan throughout the world, besides the slaves, that there are other beings, all through Europe. All through the North and the South, who groan under monarchies and despotisms, and that these, too, must be redeemed; and the signs of the times are that this revolution is to be world-wide, and that Humanity is to rejoice in the fruits thereof. (Applause.) 

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. 
I quite agree with the view, which Mr. Conway takes of the present situation of the country. More than that, I quite agree with the view he takes of the probable future through which we are to be called to walk. I have no hope, as he has not, that the intelligent purpose of our Government will ever find us a way out of this war. I think, if we find say way out of it, we are to stumble out of it by the gradual education of the people, making their own way on, a great mass, without leaders. I do not think that anything which we can call the Government has any purpose to get rid of slavery. On the contrary, I think the present purpose of the Government, so for as it has now a purpose, is to end the war and save slavery, I believe Mr. Lincoln is conducting this war, at present, with the purpose of saving slavery. That is his present line of policy, so far as any trustworthy indications of any policy reach us. The Abolitionists are charged with a desire to make this a political war All civil wars are necessarily political wars-they can hardly be anything else. Mr. Lincoln is intentionally waging a political war. He knows as well as we do as this moment, as well as every man this side of a lusatic hospital knows, that if he wants to save lives and money, the way to end this war is to strike at slavery. I do not believe that McClellan himself is mad or idiotic enough to have avoided that idea, even if he has tried to do so. But Gen. McClellan is waging a political war; so is Mr. Lincoln. When Gen. Butler ordered the women and children to be turned our of the camps at New Orleans, and one of the Colone's of the Northwest remonstrated, hid himself in his tent rather than witness the misery which the order occasioned—when the slaveholders came to receive the women and children who were to be turned out of the camps, and the troops actually charged upon them with bayonets to keep them out of the line-Gen. Butler knew what he was doing. It was not to save nations, it was not to get rid of individuals; it was to conciliate New Orleans. It was a political move. When Mr. Lincoln, by an equivocal declaration, nullifies Gen. Hunter, he does not do it because he either the justice or the efficiency of Hunter's he does it because he is afraid of Kentucky on the right hand, and the Daily Advertiser on the left (Laughter.)He has not taken one step since he entered the Presidency that has been a military step, and he could not. A civil war can hardly be anything a political war. That is, all civil wars are a struggle of opposite ideas, and armies are but the tools. If Mr. Lincoln believed in the North and in Liberty, <Illegible> he would let our army act on the principles of Liberty. He does not. He believes in the South as to efficient and vital instrumentality at the present moment, therefore defers to it. I had a friend who was to Port Royal, went among the negro huts, and saw the pines that were growing between them shattered with shells and cannon balls. He said to the "contrabands, “When those balls came, were you “here!” “Yes. "" Didn't.” you run?” “No, massa, we knew they were not meant for us.” It was a sublime, childlike faith in the justice, the providence of the Almighty. But every Southern traitor on the other said of, the Potomac can say of McClellan's cannon ball, if he ever fires one, “We know it is not meant for us” For they know he is fighting a political war, as <Illegible> all of us must; the only question is, in the service of which political idea shall the war be waged in the service of saving the Union as it was, or the Union as it ought to be? Mr. Lincoln dare not choose between these two phrases. He is waging a war which he dare not describe, in the service of a political idea that he dare not shape into words He is not fighting vigorously and heartily enough even to get good terms in case of a treaty-not to talk of victory. All savages call clemency cowardice; they respect nothing but force. The Southern barbarians mistake clemency for cowardice; and every act of Lincoln, which he thinks is conciliation, they take for evidence of his cowardice. I do not say that McClellan is a traitor, but I say this, that if he had been traitor from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he could not have served the South better than he has since he was commander in-chief (applause); he could not have carried on the war in more exact deference to the politics of that side of the Union. And almost the same thing may be said of Mr. Lincoln-that if he had been a traitor, he could not have worked better to strengthen one side, and hazard the success of the other. There is more danger to-day that Washington will be taken than Richmond. Washington is besieged more truly than Richmond is. After fifteen months of war, that is the position of the strongest nation on the globe. For the nineteen Northern States, led by a Government that serves their ideas, are the strongest nation on the face of the globe. Now, I think, and if I were in the Senate I should have said to the Government, that every man who under the present policy loses his life in the swamps of the South, and every dollar sent there to be wasted, only prolongs a murderous and wasteful war, waged for no purpose whatever. This is my meaning. In this war, mere victory on a battle field amounts to nothing, contributes little or nothing toward ending the war. If our present policyed to decisive victories, therefore, (which it does not,) it would be worth little. The war can only be ended by annihilating that Oligarchy which formed and rules the South and makes the war-by annihilating a state of society. No social state is really annihilated, except when it is replaced by another. Our present policy neither aims to annihilate that stats of things we call “the South,” made up of pride, idleness, ignorance, barbarism, theft and murder, nor to replace it with a substitute. Such an aimless war I call wasteful and murderous. Better that that South should go to-day, than that we should prolong such a war. To keep 500,000 men in the field, we must have 560,000 men on the rolls, for there are 58,.000 or 60,000 men, necessarily invalid in an army of half a million:; and to keep that 560,000 good, you must have a fresh recruiting every year of 123,000 men. This nation is to give, year by year, while this war lasts, 1,23,000 men to the army, and that number are that number are to fall out of the ranks, according to the experience of the last sixteen months, by death, either from diseases or the sword; or, if not death, then wounds so serious as to make a man’s life only a burden to himself and the community. A hundred and twenty-three thousand men a year, and, I suppose, a million of dollars a day! 

Well, you say, “Why not end the war?” “You cannot. Jefferson said of slavery” “We have got the wolf by the ears; we can neither hold him nor let him go.” That was his figure. We have now got the South-this wolf-by the ears; we must hold her; we cannot let her go. There is to be no peace on this Continent, as I believe, until these thirty States are united. You and I may live to be 70 years old; we shall never see peace on this Continent untill we see one flag from the Lake to the Gulf, and we shall never.




 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
see it until slavery is eliminated from the institutions of these States. Let the South go to-morrow, and you have not got peace. Intestine war here, border war along the line, aggression and intrigue on the part of the South! She has lived with us for seventy years, and kept us constantly in turmoil. Exasperated by suffering, grown haughty by success, the moment she goes off, is such a neighbor likely to treat us any better, with our imaginary line between us, than she has treated us for seventy years while she held the sceptre! The moment we ask for terms, she counts it victory, and the war in another shape goes on. You victory, and the war in another shape goes on. You and I are never to see peace, we are never to see the possibility of putting the army of this nation, whether it be made up of 19 or 34 States, on a peace footing, until slavery is destroyed. A large army, immense expenses, a despotic Government, using necessarily despotic war powers—that is the future until slavery is destroyed. As long as you keep a tortoise at the head of the Government, you are digging a pit with one hand and filling it with the other. The war means digging a pit with your two hands, and filling it up with the lives of your sons and the accumulations of your fathers. Now, therefore, until this nation announces, in some form or other, that this is a war, not against Jefferson Davis, but against the system; until the whole nation endorses the resolution of the New York Chamber of Commerce “Better every rebel die than one loyal soldier,” (applause,) and begs of the Government, demands of the Government, to speak that word which is victory and peace —until we do that, we shall have no prospect of peace.
I do not believe in the Government. I agree entirely with Mr. Conway. I do not believe this Government has got either vigor or a purpose. It drifts with events. If Jefferson Davis is a sane man, if he is a sagacious man, and has the power to control his army, he will never let it take Washington; for he knows as well as we do, that shelling the dome of that Capitol to ashes, that the Capitol in flames or surmounted with the rebel flag, would be the fiery cross to wake the North into unity, and to the demand for emancipation (applause). We are paying a million of dollars a day, for soldiers to dig ditches in the Chickahominy swamps, but the best expense we could be put to would be to lose the marble Capitol under the shells of Beauregard; for the very telegraph that flashed the news North and West would go back laden with the demand, that if, in the Providence of God, Lincoln had survived the bombardment of Washington, and Hamlin was not President—which I wish he were—he should proclaim emancipation. And I believe that would make even him over into an Abolitionist. I do not believe that Jefferson Davis, while he is able to control his forces, will ever allow them to take Washington. He wants time. If we float on until the Fourth of March, 1863, England could hardly be blamed if she did acknowledge the South. A very fair argument could be urged, on principles of international law, that she ought to do it. The South will have gone far to prove her right to be acknowledged. She will have maintained herself two full years, against such efforts as no nation ever made. Davis wants to tide over to that time, without rousing the North. He does not wish any greater successes than will just keep us where we are, and allow Europe to see the South strong, vigorous, and the North only her equal. One such move as that on Washington, and the South would kick the beam. He knows it. If any man has light enough on the future to pray God to do any particular thing, I advise him to pray for an attack on Washington and its capture, for nothing less than that seems likely, within a few months, to wake up these Northern States to the present emergency.
But for these considerations, I see not why Jefferson Davis should not throw all his troops upon Washington, first informing General McClellan of the proposed attack, and demanding of him enough Federal troops to protect the rebel property at Richmond during Beauregard’s absence. The President, judged by both proclamations that have followed the late confiscation act of Congress, has no mind whatever. He has not uttered a word that gives even a twilight glimpse of any anti-slavery purpose. He may be honest—nobody cares whether the tortoise is honest or not; he has neither insight, nor prevision, nor decision. It is said in Washington streets that he long ago wrote a proclamation, abolishing slavery in the State of Virginia, but McClellan bullied him out of it. It is said, too—what is extremely probable—that he has more than once made up his mind to remove McClellan, and Kentucky bullied him out of it. The man who has been beaten to that pulp in sixteen months, what hope can we have of him? None. There is no ground for any expectations from this Government. We are to pray for such blows as will arouse the mass of the people into systematic, matured, intelligent interference in the action of the government. When I was here a year ago, I said I thought the President needed the advice of great bodies of prominent men. That has taken a year. The New York Chamber of Commerce, the Common Council, and the Defence Committee, have just led the way. Some of the Western Councils have followed, it is said. Let us hope that they may have decisive effect at Washington; but I do not believe they will. I do not believe there is in that Cabinet—Seward, Chase, Stanton, Wells, or the President of the country—enough to make a leader. If McClellan should capitulate in his swamp, if Johnston should take Washington, if Butler should be driven out of New Orleans, if those ten fabulous iron ships from England at Mobile could be turned into realities, and Palmerston acknowledge the Confederacy, I should have hope; for I do not believe these nineteen million of people mean to be beaten; and if they do, I do not believe they can afford to be beaten. I think, when we begin to yield, the South will demand such terms as even the Boston Courier cannot get low enough to satisfy them. (Laughter and applause.) You do not know the sublime impudence and haughtiness of the tyrants of the South. You have not yet measured the terms which Jefferson Davis will impose upon the North, when, if ever, it proposes accommodation. The return of fugitives, the suppression of anti-slavery discussion, monopoly of the Mississippi, surrender of some border States—a thousand things, that would make the yoke too heavy to be borne. I never did believe in the capacity of Abraham Lincoln, but I do believe in the pride of Davis, in the vanity of the South, in the desperate determination of those fourteen States; and I believe in a sunny future, because God has driven them mad; and in their madness is our hope. They will never consent to any thing that the North can grant; and you must whip them, because, unless you do, they will grind you to powder.
This war is to go on. There will be drafting in three months or six. The hunker, when he is obliged to go to war, will be like the man of whom Mr. Conway told us, who was willing to sit by a negro in the cars, rather than stand all night—he will be willing that the negro shall fight, with him or without him. That is a part of the logic of events that will be very effective; but even that will not make Lincoln declare for emancipation. We shall wait one year or two, if we wait for him, before we get it. In the mean time, what an expense of blood and treasure, each day! It is a terrible expense that Democracy pays for its mode of government. If we lived in England now, if we lived in France now, a hundred men, convinced of the exigency of the moment, would carry the nation here or there. It is the royal road, short, sharp, and stern, like the 2d of December, with Napoleon’s cannon enfilading every street in Paris. Democracy, when it moves, has to carry the whole people with it. The minds of nineteen millions of people are to be changed and educated. Ministers and politicians have been preaching to them that the negro will not fight—that he is a nuisance—that slavery is an ordination of God—that the North ought to bar him out with statutes. The North wakes up, its heart poisoned, its hands paralyzed with these ideas, and says to its tortoise President—“Save us, but not through the negro!” You do not yet believe in the negro. The papers are accumulating statistics to prove that the
<c02>
negro will work, and asking whether he will fight. If he will not fight, we are gone—that is all! If he will not work without the lash, the Union is over. If the popular theory is correct, there can be no peace nor union on this continent, except under the heel of a slaveholding despotism. It is not the South we have got to conquer; it is the Egypt of the Southern half of Illinois; it is the devil in the editor’s chair of the Boston Courier—(merriment)—it is the lump of unbaked dough, with no vitality except hatred of Charles Sumner, which sits in the editorial chair of the Daily Advertiser (applause); it is the man who goes down to Virginia with the army, and thinks he goes there to watch the house of Gen. Lee, and make the slaves work for him, while the master has gone to Corinth or to Richmond. These are the real enemies of the republic; and if Lincoln could be painted, as Vanity Fair once painted him, like Sinbad with the Old Man of the Sea on his shoulders, it should be these conservative elements weighing down the heart and the purpose of your President, that the limner should present. If we go to the bottom, it will be because we have, in the Providence of God, richly deserved it. It is the pro-slavery North that is her greatest enemy. Lincoln would act, if he believed the North wanted him to. Our friend Conway has fairly painted him. He is not a genius; he is not a man like Fremont, to stamp the lava mass of the nation with an idea; he is not a man like Hunter, to coin his experience into ideas. I will tell you what he is. He is a first-rate second-rate man. (Laughter.) He is one of the best specimens of a second-rate man, and he is honestly waiting, like any other servant, for the people to come and send him on any errand they wish. In ordinary times, when the seas are calm, you can sail without a pilot—almost any one can avoid a sunken ledge that the sun shows him on his right hand, and the reef that juts out on his left; but it is when the waves smite heaven, and the thunder-cloud makes the waters ink, that you need a pilot: and to-day the nation’s bark scuds, under the tempest, lee-shore and mælstrom on each side—needing no holiday captain, but a pilot, to weather the storm. Mr. Conway thinks we are to ride on a couple of years, and get one. I doubt it. Democracy is poisoning its fangs. It is making its way among the ballot-boxes of the nation. I doubt whether the next Congress will be as good as the last. That is not saying much. I doubt whether there will be such a weight of decided Republicanism in it as there was in the last Congress. I should be afraid to commit to the nation to-day the choice of a President. What we want is some stunning misfortune; what we want is a baptism in blood, to make the aching and bereaved hearts of the people cry out for Fremont, for an idea, at the head of the armies. (Applause.) Meanwhile, we must wander on in the desert, wasteful murderers. Every life lost in that swamp is murder by the Cabinet at Washington. Every dollar spent is stolen from the honest toil of the North to pamper the conceited pride of the South in her own institution. Whose fault? Ours—not Lincoln’s. He is as good as the average North. In yonder Grove, July after July, the Whigs of this Commonwealth lavished their money to fire guns once every minute to smother the speeches that were made on our platform. You remember it. The sons of those men are dying in the South because their fathers smothered the message which, heeded, might have saved this terrible lesson to the nation. (Applause.) Who shall say that God is not holding to I their lips the cup which they poisoned? That Massachusetts is to be made over again, and, under competent leaders, hurled as a thunderbolt against the rebellion. We are not to shrink from the idea that this is a political war; it must be. But its politics is a profound faith in God and the people, in justice and liberty as the eternal safety of nations as well as of men. (Applause.) It is of that Lincoln should make his politics, planting the corner-stone of the new Union in the equality of every being before the law, and justice to all races. (Renewed applause.) If military necessity did not call for a million of blacks in the army, civil necessity would dictate it. Slavery, instead of being a dreaded perplexity, something we are to wail over, is a God-given weapon, a glorious opportunity, a sword rough ground by God, and ready every moment for our use. The nation, the most stupid in it—all but the traitors—know and confess that to abolish it would end the rebellion. Thus, therefore, God gives us knowledge, keeps for us the weapon; all we need ask for is courage to use it. I say, therefore, as Mr. Conway did, cease believing in the Cabinet; there is nothing there for you. Pray God, that before he abandons this nation, he will deign to humble it by one blow that shall make it spring to its feet, and use the strength it has. Beseech him to put despair into the hearts of the Cabinet. If we are called ever to see another President of the United States on horseback flying from his capital, waste no tears! He will return to that capital on the arms of a million of adult negroes, the sure basis of a Union that will never be broken. (Applause.)
I like some of the signs of the times. I like the resolutions of the New York Chamber of Commerce. I like the article from Wilkes’s Spirit of the Times, bidding us criticise McClellan, and no longer believe that Napoleons are made of mud. (Laughter.) I think the two poles of popular influence have been struck: the young men, the sporting men, the fast men, the dissipated men, the New York Herald’s constituency, and the commercial class, the merchants and bankers of the great metropolis. The thirty thousand copies of Wilkes that are circulated every week have a mighty influence. When its readers begin to believe that McClellan is made of mud, it is a bright sign. Do not look to the Capital. We did think there was something in Stanton; there may be; but he is over-slaughed, he is eclipsed, he has gone into retirement behind Seward. The policy that prevails at Washington is to do nothing, and wait for events. I asked the lawyers of Illinois, who had practised law with Mr. Lincoln for twenty years, “Is he a man of decision, is he a man who can say no?” They all said, “If you had gone to the Illinois bar, and selected the man least capable of saying no, it would have been Abraham Lincoln. He has no stiffness in him.” I said to the bankers and the directors of railroads in Chicago, “Is McClellan a man who can say no?"?” and they said,”, “Banks we had only a few months; we don’t think much of him; but to every question you asked, he would say yes or no in sixty minutes. McClellan never answered a question while he was here. If there was a question to be decided, he floated until events decided it. He was here months, and he never decided a single question that came up in the management of the Illinois Central.” These are the men we have put at the head of the Union, and for fourteen months, they have been unable to say yes or no. But that is the fault of the nation. We should have been five hundred millions of dollars richer, and sixty-three thousand lives more populous, if Banks had been Commander-in-Chief instead of McClellan. (Applause.) I do not believe that Banks knows how to handle an army, but I believe he would have pressed that army on and against something, and that is all it needed. I had a private letter from a captain in McClellan's army in the Peninsula, in which he said, “We have had five chances to enter Richmond; we might have done it after Yorktown, after Williamsburg, and after Seven Pines, just as well as not; no troops in front of us, we ourselves in full condition for an advance. Instead of that, we sat down and dug.”
The most serious charge I have against the President, the only thing that makes a film upon his honesty—for I believe him as honest as the measure of his to intellect allows—is this: that while I do not believe that in his heart he trusts McClellan a whit more than at I do, from fear of the Border States and Northern conservatism, he keeps him at the head of the army, which loses two thousand men by disease every week, and spends from sixty to seventy thousand dollars a day; and if, twenty years hence, he renders up an account of his stewardship to his country, you that live, mark me! will see him confess that this whole winter, he never believed in McClellan’s ability. That
<c03>
is the sore spot in the character of an otherwise honest officer, and that is where this fear of conservatism sends him. Mr. Wickliffe of Kentucky and Mr. Davis of Kentucky put their feet down and say, “Do this, and the Border States leave you.” There is not a Republican at the North who will be allowed to say it. Gov. Andrew lisped it once, in his letter to Secretary Stanton, and how few, except the Abolitionists, dared to stand by him, even in Massachusetts! There is no public opinion that would support Mr. Sumner, with a loyal Commonwealth behind him, in making such a speech, once in the winter, as Garrett Davis made every day, with a Commonwealth behind him that has to be held in the Union by the fear of Northern bayonets; and it is because Conservatism is bold and Republicanism is coward (“Hear!”) that Abraham Lincoln has to stand where he does to-day. There will be no mystery if this nation goes to pieces. It will be God punishing it according to the measure of its sins. Ten years ago, the Whig party could have educated it, and so postponed or averted this convulsion. It was left to pass on in its career, and the South finds it divided in sentiment, servile in purpose; our soldiers the servants of rebels; our officers, with shoulder-straps, on the soil of a rebellious State like Virginia, more sycophantic to the slaveholder who comes to their camp than Webster was in the Senate, when Clay threatened him with the lash of Southern insolence, fifteen years ago. If this rebellion cannot shake the North out of her servility, God will keep her in constant agitation until He does shake us into a self-respecting, courageous people, fit to govern ourselves. (Applause.) This war will last just long enough to make us over into men, and when it has done this, we shall conquer with as much ease as the lion takes the tiniest animal in his grip. If Mr. Lincoln could only be wakened to the idea which Mr. Conway has expressed, that God gives him the thunderbolt of slavery with which to crush the rebellion; that there was never a rebellion arranged by Providence to be put down so easily, so completely, so beneficially as this; that, unlike the aristocracy of France and England, rooting itself underneath the whole surface of society, slavery almost makes good the prayer of the Roman tyrant, “Would that the people had one neck, and I could cut it!”—if Mr. Lincoln could only understand this, victory would be easy. God has massed up slavery into three hundred thousand hands. He has marked it by the black color, so that the most ignorant cannot err, so that the blindest shall see enough to strike at this central figure which holds the life-blood of the rebellion. (Applause.) Let us do our duty, and feel, however long the war, however fatal and disastrous the experience, that we have left no stone unturned, no word unspoken, which can save a mighty nation from the greatest sufferings God ever inflicted on an age.
My friend says he would say to the tyrants of the Old World,”, “Come on!"!” That is a fearful taunt. The collision of two such nations as the England of this side the Atlantic, and the England of the other, would shake the globe. No such war has been known since Christ. Half of all the old wars massed into one would not equal it. We should sweep the commerce of the mightiest commercial nation from the ocean. We should send starvation into Lancashire and Lyons, and she would make our coast a desolation, and send anguish into millions of homes. The ingenuity of one race divided into two nations, that has reached an almost superhuman acuteness, would be all poured into the channel of the bloodiest war; and behind it would be the Saxon determination, which, like that of the bull dog, its type, will die in the death-grapple before it yields. Old national hate fresh edged and perpetuated—untold wealth destroyed— millions of lives lost, lives of the most cultivated nations—the progress of the race stopped—chaos come again over the fairest portion of Christendom—fifty millions of people, dealing such death-blows across the Atlantic in the nineteenth century—it is a burden which we are to pray God he will not call upon us to bear. On the contrary, let us hope that Southern success may be so rapid and abundant, that a blow like that which stuns the drunkard into sobriety may stun our Cabinet into vigor, and that nineteen million of people, putting forth their real strength in the right direction, may keep peace outside our borders until we make peace within. (Loud applause.)
The meeting then adjourned for one hour, which was pleasantly spent in the satisfaction of the inner man, and in the enjoyment of the many attractions offered by the delightful Grove, which was now, the clouds of the morning having passed away, even more than ordinarily beautiful and charming.
At 21/2 o’clock, the company assembled in front of the speaker’s stand in the Grove, where able and interesting speeches were made by Rev. DANIEL FOSTER, J. S.ROCK, Esq., Rev. Mr. AMES, of Illinois, A. T. Foss, Rev. J. N. GLOUCESTER, of Brooklyn, N. Y., Rev. SAMUEL GREEN, (recently pardoned out of the Maryland Penitentiary, where he was incarcerated for the crime (!) of having in his possession a copy of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,”) GEORGE W. STACY, HENRY C. WRIGHT, and WILLIAM WELLS BROWN. The exercises terminated with the singing of a hymn, the first verse of which is as follows:—
“Strike grandly, in this hour sublime,
A blow to ring through endless time!
Strike! for the listening ages wait!
Emancipate! Emancipate!”
Some account of the speeches of the afternoon will be given hereafter.
COLORED REGIMENTS. The Journal says it is informed that Col. Lyman Dyke, of Stoneham, has tendered his services gratis to organize, fit and drill for the field, a regiment of colored men in Massachusetts, if Gov. Andrew shall see fit to follow the example of GOV. Sprague, of Rhode Island, and call for them.
THE SIEGE OF VICKSBURG ABANDONED. After a protracted siege, the attempt to capture Vicksburg, and thus reopen the navigation of the Mississippi, has been given up. By the arrival of the ram Queen of the West, at Memphis, on the 29th ult., we learn that the fleets have separated and gone their ways, the Farragut vessels to New Orleans, and the Mississippi flotilla to the mouth of the Yazoo river, where it is keeping a blockade over the refugee rebel boats.
ONE OF THE INFERIOR RACE. A correspondent at Newbern, N. C., connected with the army, writes:—
“We have now nearly six thousand contrabands within our lines here at Newbern, and still they come, and many of them are very intelligent. One remarkably bright slave has, in one week’s time, learned to write quite well, not even knowing a letter when he came. I send you a sample of his writing. He is very black—a real negro. We have many such."
AMONG THE PINES. It will be seen by an advertisement, that the New York Tribune Association have assumed the publication of this interesting book. It is one of the most exciting works on slavery we have ever read.
Gen. Butler, at New Orleans, has ordered that all negroes sent by their masters to join the Federals will be regarded as emancipated. The masters had endeavored in many cases to reclaim them, after the use of such expressions.
At the recent annual examination of the Boston public schools, the following colored pupils were recipients of diplomas:—
Wells School—Cordelia Downing.
Phillips School— Henry Williams.
NEW PATRIOTIC MUSIC. Russell and Patee, 180 Tremont Street, have just published the following pieces:—1. Sons of those Noble Sires: a National Song for the Times. Words by R. Thayer. Music by L. Marshall. 2. The Heroes of the Union. Dedicated to Gen. McClellan and all Loyal Americans. Words by R. Thayer. Music by L. Marshall. 3. National Songs: Union and Liberty. Words by Oliver Wendell Holmes (written for the Atlantic Monthly.) Music by O. B. Brown.
<c04>
MR. MAY’S REPLY TO MR. HOWLAND.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,—Mr. Joseph A. Howland might have saved himself the trouble of writing the article of complaint and accusation against myself, in the last Liberator, and of hurrying off a copy of the same for simultaneous publication in the Standard also; for he knew perfectly well that my views of the War, and of its probable, nay, almost inevitable consequences differ essentially from his, and that that difference is the key to my course in regard to it. He believes that this war is waged in the interest of Slavery, to maintain it and perpetuate it; I believe that the “uprising of the North” was with an essential anti-slavery purpose, a purpose which has supplied whatever of real spirit and sincere devotedness have been manifested in our armies hitherto, and which is not to be set aside or ultimately defeated by the imbecility or treachery of any of the people’s agents, whether in cabinet or field. He would as willingly live under Jeff Davis’s government (as I learn from “an authentic source”) as under that of the United States; I would not. This difference between us would have suggested to one who had no ulterior design in a newspaper attack upon me, that my course might be susceptible of defence, without any inconsistency with an anti-slavery life. Do not understand that I have any objection to the publishing of anything I have said or done, in Leicester or elsewhere, on the subject; for the readers of the Liberator and Standard constitute a tribunal for which I have long felt the highest respect that I can feel for any human authority,—a tribunal, moreover, whose judgment my conscience tells me I have no reason to fear at the present time.
I have rendered such aid as proper to help the town in which I reside’ fill up its quota of troops under the late call of the Government; and what little I have said in public on the subject has been inspired by the same anti-slavery motive which has actuated me for a large part of my life. Had Mr. Howland purposed to represent me fairly, he would not have written to ask “Mr. Garrison” to tell him the facts, but he would have first conferred with me, living as he does but six miles from me, and liable to meet me any day in Worcester streets, or at his own place of business. He would thus have learned my reasons; he would have learned that, on all public occasions, as all private, and from the first hour of the war, my steadfast testimony has been that, as slavery was the cause and the sole cause of it, so slavery must be uprooted and exterminated before we can have peace again; that no permanent success can light upon our arms, no favor of God be hoped for by our land, until we strike for justice to the long oppressed slaves, until the nation repents of the cruel wrong it has long done to our colored brethren,—God’s equal children with ourselves, and far nearer to Him, inasmuch as our great sin has separated us from Him, and caused his face to be turned away from us: he would have learned that my anti-slavery words had driven pro-slavery men from the hall, and that my public rebuke of pro-slavery sympathizers with secession amongst us had been plainly given.
But why do I say these things? I shall wait yet a little, before I believe that I am on trial for my anti-slavery loyalty. When any accusation against me is fairly made, I shall be ready to meet it.
For myself, behind and beyond the President, his Cabinet, and all his Generals, I see a country, a cause, institutions of freedom, and a possible future— all imperilled now by the most desperate, cruel, and inhuman foe which ever sought to establish its empire among men. That brutal power seeks to wrest from our hands every precious heritage we have received from our fathers, and to destroy the birthright of our children. It may suit Mr. Howland to fold his hands, or stand aloof in cold criticism, at such a time. It does not suit me. Shall resistance cease, the case go by default, because resistance is not yet made in the right way? Mr. Howland cannot impress on my mind, more strongly than I already feel it, how foolishly and impotently (with some exceptions) the vast powers confided to our Government have been used. But all this negligence and unfaithfulness of theirs cannot blind me to the great cause which is pressing upon them, and which shall yet compel them out of their apathy, into honest, effective action; cannot blind me to my duty to my country, nor to my duty to resist to the utmost, and to the last, the designs of the Slave Power. The success of slavery in this contest is not only our utter disgrace, but is the destruction of every good thing which our country has yet gained or built up. God grant that no responsibility for the triumph of the Slaveholders’ Rebellion may fall upon me! The notion that Jeff. Davis’s government is, or would be, no worse than ours, is to my thinking so insane as to be unworthy of argument or a moment’s consideration. In a letter I have just received from Richard D. Webb, who will not be suspected of any special admiration of, or sympathy with, Mr. Lincoln’s administration, that earnest and faithful friend says—“I have received the volume, ‘The Barons of the South’; I hope with all my heart they may not also become the Lords of the North. If they do, we betide the prospects of civilized humanity!” So I most deeply feel; and I would offer myself, my life, and my all, rather than consent to such a consummation. And our Government must be sustained in its resistance to that most diabolical power, insufficient and poor as that resistance is, and must be constrained, in obedience to the command of the only sovereign here, the people,—whose indignant voice is now rising and swelling in every part of the North,—to arise and act, at length, with that directness against slavery, which alone can command success. At the Abington Emancipation celebration, last Friday, were many speakers, taking essentially the same ground with my own. I heard no rebuke of them. Nor was it in any man’s heart there to rebuke them, so long as they held fast their anti-slavery integrity.
Mr. Howland charges the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies with having been, the past year, in the “active service of the [United States] Government,” and modestly exhorts them to leave that service, and “return to the cause of the slave”! After that, can I find any fault with his attack upon me? Gladly should I have been spared the trouble of writing this reply, and have seen your columns filled with worthier matter than this which Mr. How land has introduced. Beyond that, I feel no regrets in the case.SAMUEL MAY, JR.
Leicester, August 4, 1862.
“IS IT SO?”
If Mr. Howland will read more carefully my article in the Liberator of July 11th, upon which he commented last week, I think he will see the error of attributing to it, in any manner or degree, an official character. My article was merely the expression of my individual opinion. This fact is obvious enough from its signature, a signature not editorial, as any one may see by looking at the head of the paper. It is further obvious from the phrase, “It seems to me,” with which the expression of sentiment referred to commences; and this phrase should certainly rectify any ambiguity which might appear at the first view of a subsequent sentence, taken apart from its connection.—C. K. W.
The New York Journal of Commerce, having copied Mr. Howland’s letter to show that the Abolitionists are guilty of “treason,” (what a charge from such a sheet!) it can do no less, as a matter of fairness, than to copy Mr. May’s reply to that letter; but, of course, it will do no such thing. It is persistently bent on mischief, and fair dealing is not one of its “PRIME” characteristics.
“Our misguided Southern brethren,” who are now so stubbornly refusing to be counted in the American Union, will please take notice, that the Journal of Commerce is rampant against the Abolitionists for being unwilling (as that paper alleges) to go down South for the purpose of doing the shooting, stabbing, &c. &c., necessary to their extermination or subjugation!
<c05>
DR. HIDDEN AND REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
CENTRALIA, Nemaha Co, Kansas, July 30, 1862. 
MR. GARRISON,—Having seen an article in the Liberator from Dr. Hidden and others of this county, purporting to be an answer to one from Rev. Daniel Foster, and seeing in it some misrepresentations of facts concerning our last winter’s school, we, the elder scholars-of said school, would beg leave to present to the public, through your paper, a few facts concerning the same.
The school commenced on the first of December last with twenty-five scholars, and in one month this number was increased to sixty. Mr. Foster then hired Mrs. Sheldon, who was, as he said, an experienced and successful teacher. N. B. McKay then took his children from school, and persuaded all his friends whom he could influence to do the same, but succeeded only in a very few instances; and those who were taken away went against their wishes; some even shed tears on leaving. Nevertheless, the school did not dwindle; scholars continued to come in, and all things went on in harmony, as far as the school was concerned, until one morning, on gathering for school, we found that the doors and windows of the college were gone, we knew not where. We then moved the desks, seats, books, papers, &c., to another building, and went on with the school, with about half the usual number of scholars—the house to which we moved being too small to accommodate so many, and those from abroad leaving on account of the trouble. On the tenth day of March, the doors and windows were taken back and put in the house, and the riot of which you have heard ensued, the trial lasting the rest of that week. On the next Monday, the school was again commenced, and continued as before through that term, and closed, all of us hoping that it would not be long before we should again meet in the school-room, under the same dear teacher and friend.
As for Mr. Foster, our beloved and respected ‘teacher, we would say that he had and still has the respect and confidence of nearly every scholar in school, and we believe that the opposition to our school was the result of personal spite, joined with that sectarian prejudice which has always met those who have dared to oppose the prevailing religious opinions of the day.
ABIJAH WELLS, P. A. Morse,
SETH B. HOUGH, MARY J. OSBORNE,
OTIS A. OSBORNE, P. I. WELLS,
Robert Morse, Eliza J. McCutcheon,
ROBERT BRONAUGH, MINA I. HAMILTON,
ADAM B. BRUNER, MARY C. HAMILTON,
Langdon Morse, Samantha R.Cline,
Abram Hymer, Myra Ensign,
EMMA ENSIGN, ADA BARNES.
THE ARMY TO BE INCREASED SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND MEN.
AN IMMEDIATE DRAFT OF 300,000 MILITIA.
WASHINGTON, Monday, August 4, 1862.
The following order, calling for Militia from the several States, has just been issued:—
WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, D. C.,AUGUST 4, 1862.
Ordered, first: That a draft of 300,000 militia be immediately called into the service of the United States, to serve for nine months, unless sooner discharged. The Secretary of War will assign the quotas to the States, and establish regulations for the draft.
Second: That if any State shall not by the 15th of August furnish its quota of the additional 300,000 volunteers authorized by law, the deficiency of volunteers in that State will also be made up by a special draft from the militia. The Secretary of War will establish regulations for this purpose.
Third: Regulations will be prepared by the War Department, and presented to the President, with the object of securing the promotion of officers of the army and volunteers for meritorious and distinguished services, and of preventing the nomination and appointment in the military service of incompetent or unworthy officers. The regulations will also provide for ridding the, service of such incompetent persons as now hold commissions.
By order of the President,
EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War.
DABNEY,THE NEGRO SCOUT OF THE RAPPAHANNOCK. A correspondent of the Evening Post, who is with Gen. Pope’s army, has the following notice of a negro scout, illustrative of the idea many military men hold, that the negroes will fight well and faithfully:—
“One man—the guide in the two exploits of our cavalry—deserves brief mention. He is certainly a marked man—loyal, true and brave to a fault. Virginia may well be proud of him, and the rebels of this vicinity have testified their appreciation by subscribing and offering a reward for his head of fifteen hundred dollars. His skin is somewhat darker than ours; but the front rank of our soldiers has willingly given him place, and his services as scout and guide have been invaluable. He was a slave two months ago, and now, at seventy-five cents a day, he is worth to the government a dozen of the best of us. I notice on his buttons the “Ense petit placidam sub liberate quietem” of Massachusetts. The old Bay State need not be ashamed to have her proud motto borne by Dabney, the dreaded scout of the Rappahannock."
MORE EXASPERATION. “Our men,” writes a surgeon connected with the 52d Regiment Indiana Volunteers, “have killed many bloodhounds, valued at $100 a piece. These dogs, kept to hunt runaway negroes, were put after some of our men, and hence their slaughter.”
Is it “policy” to kill an animal so valuable to the Southern gentleman to keep his slaves in order? Will not such ruthless conduct as this farther exasperate the South? Who can doubt that by such imprudent acts as these our Southern brethren are rendered more and more unanimous? —N. Y. Ev. Post.
Exasperation is not the worst of it. The Journal of Commerce can show that killing these bloodhounds was an act of flagrant violence to the Constitution. Were the owners regularly sued and brought into court? Were the dogs confiscated and condemned according to law? Was not negro testimony taken to prove the bad character of the gentle creatures? Did our hunted men let them bite so as to demonstrate their carniverous propensity? In short, was the business done up as Roger B. Taney or Vallandigham would prescribe? If not, here is clear ground for a damnatory resolve in the next Democratic State Convention.—N. Y. Tribune.
ATROCIOUS OUTRAGE. A very brutal riot occurred on Monday last in South Brooklyn, N. Y. A large mob of Irishmen, it appears, had determined to beat and burn to death if they could the colored women and children employed in two tobacco factories. Taking advantage of the absence of the men, most of whom had gone to a celebration, they made the attack, drove the women and children into the upper stories, and then set fire to the first floor. But, as in the case of the Charleston Jail, from some unknown reason, the fire did not make the expected headway, and the contemplated burning to death of a few hundred “niggers” did not come off. The rioters attempted to get up stairs, but a few resolute men kept them at bay until the police arrived, and put an end to the disturbance.
Gen. Pope’s reconnoitering party, under Gen. Crawford, on Friday last, took possession of Orange Court House, nine miles north of Gordonsville. The place was occupied by two regiments of Rebel cavalry, of whom 11 were killed and 52 taken prisoners— among the latter one major, two captains, and two lieutenants. The railroad and telegraph towards Gordonsville were destroyed.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION FOR WORCESTER COUNTY NORTH.-There will be a. Mass Convention of the friends of Freedom, to consider the momentous issues of the present, hour, in Leominster, on sunday, the 10th of August, to continue through the day and evening.
The Government is still holding to its cruel policy of despising the services and prolonging the slavery of the colored race; and a Boston Daily defiantly declares that the new forces now raising “cannot be withstood by the whole population of the disloyal States, booked by all the hosts of hell”! But what if all the hosts’ heaven are against us for our injustice and cruelty to the enslaved and to their race?
Let the Convention at Leominster witness that there are many who do not wholly forget that God, before whose justice Jefferson declared he “trembled.”
B. H. HEYWOOD, PARKER PILLSBURY, and perhaps others, will be present to address the assemblies.
Exercises will commence at the usual hours, day and evening.
<c06>
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in PEMBROKE, on Sunday next, Aug. 10th, at the usual hours. Subject: The War and slavery,
An Anti-Slaver; Convention will be held at the Free Church in Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, August 23d and 24th, commencing on Saturday, at 3 o' clock, P. M. Parker Pillsbury and E. R. Brown will be present as speakers. 
MARY WATERS (formerly a slave) is well recommended as being capable, intelligent and deserving. She desires employment in washing and ironing, housecleaning, &c., and does other housework satisfactorily. Any who will give her work will be conferring a kindness, as her regular employers are out of town, and she is very destitute, being left with four small children. She resides at 29 Anderson Street, formerly West Centre, Boston.
DIED-In this city, July 29, Mrs. AGNES PIERCE, aged 85 years; for many years a highly respected member of the Joy Street Baptist Church and two benevolent Societies connected therewith.
“A Book which should” be in the hands of every man, woman and child in the Northern States.”
AMONG THE PINES:
OR,
SOUTH IN SECESSION TIME.
BY EDMUND KIRKE.
1 vol. 12mo. 310 pages.
CONTAINING an extraordinary but truthful picture of the entire social system of the South; describing the domestic life of the rich planters, the small, planters, and the “white trash,” and depicting actual scenes on the large and small plantations.
To meet the large and increasing demand for this work, THE TRIBUNE has assumed its publication, and will issue it on Aug.1, on the following terms:-
Single copies, in cloth, 75 cents; in paper covers, 50 cents.
(Single copies, sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.)
Twenty-five copies, paper covers, 33 1-3c. each.
One hundred copies, paper covers, 30c. each.
One thousand copies, paper covers, 28c. each. 
Cash on delivery.
Read the following
NOTICES FROM THE PRESS:
“The remarkable success which it had as a serial in the Continental Monthly shows that ‘Among the Pines’ is the work for a critical time, and contains elements of great value. It is natural, national, and vigorous, a rare and excellent book, written by one who, to the most searching common sense, adds a keen eye for the locally remarkable, for the humorous and the pathetic.”-Knickerbocker Magazine.
“Written by a Conservative, an Old-Line Whig, and a voter fort Douglas, the book shows no trace of the bitterness which too often colors the accounts of more radical men. Personally, its representations are rather favorable to the slaveholder, and, therefore, the facts narrated show the system in even darker colors.”-New Englander for July, 1862.
“We may sum up all in one emphatic assertion, to wit: That since ‘Uncle Tom’ thrilled the public of America and Europe with its life-like portraitures and impressive dramatic scenes, such as no artist in modern play or ‘Old Mortality’ had written, no work on slavery, no work on Southern social life, has been given to the public, which can at all be compared to Mr. Kirke‘s ‘Among the Pines.’”-Gazette, Pittsburg, Pa.
“As a vivid picture of life in the Carolinas, we are disposed to give this book the palm over all others.”-Daily Advertiser, Boston.
“There is not to be found another so absorbing a description of the effects of slavery upon the master, the slave, and the poor white man, as is this. It is invaluable for general circulation among the people.”-Republican, Taunton, Mass.
“Without any exception, it is the most graphic and pleasing sketch of Southern life and manners ever printed in America.”-Weekly Dispatch, Amsterdam, N. Y.
“As a picture of Southern life, it is graphic and admirable in its character. Its value consists in its facts; and the interest of these comes from the peculiar vividness with which they are presented to the eye and mind.”-Home Journal, New York.
“Here is a book which will be read with deep interest at the present time. The style is vivid, and the pictures sketched true. The writer lays open the secret springs of secession. Such a work helps us to know the South.”-Recorder, Boston.
“Written with vigor-a most readable book-and one gets from it a good idea of the state of feeling at the South at the time the rebellion broke out.”-Sentinel and Times, Bath, Me.
“A singularly truthful picture, executed throughout in a masterly manner. Of the many books that aim to delineate plantation life—the relation of master to slave, and slave to master and to each other—the emotions and passions which the situation summons to extraordinary action, and all the strange, touching, and tragic issues that so terrible a domination and so fiercely enforced a submission engender, there is none—no, not one—which can for a moment compare with it. It is the ardent South, with all the wonderful accuracy the daguerreotype can give it; and, moreover, it is the South in secession time.”- Gazette, Taunton, Mass.
“The story is clear and terrible, with the lurid light of the passions, miseries and violence’s that grow out of slavery. It is a simple and faithful account of things that actually happened-a striking and truthful portraiture of slave society—a powerful and even painful story.”—Independent, New York.
“A work which will be read and remembered as more original and suggestive, in idea and purpose, and more dramatic in execution, than any issue of the press since ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’”-Norfolk County Journal, Roxbury, Mass.
“The admirable style in which the narrative is written, the evident familiarity with Southern life and character which it exhibits, and the marked indications of life-like truthfulness that appear, render it a noteworthy and impressive work.”—Buffalo Express.
“In romantic interest and life-like delineation of Southern life, it excels ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’”—Mirror, Ithaca, N. Y.
“‘ Among the Pines’ is full of graphic and dramatic power, full of thrilling scenes, full of strong truth, and belongs to that school of writing in which great facts are elucidated by simple narrative.”—Democrat and American, Rochester, N. Y.
“It has had no equal since ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’ In variety and correctness, it is superior to that."-Zion's Herald, Boston.
“Mr. Kirke knows the South and its people as well as any one living. He is neither an Abolitionist nor a proslavery man, but rebellion made him a writer. His characters have distinct individuality, and have lived—many of them are still living.”—Press, Philadelphia.
“It combines the accuracy of Olmstead’s works with the thrilling interest of ‘Uncle Tom. ’”—Continental Monthly.
“The author has, in this volume, made his mark on the literature of the time. He displays keen insight into human nature, racy humor, and pathos which is tragic in its intensity.”—True Flag, Boston.
“A most interesting book—surpassing in vividness of portraiture and relief of individuality' Uncle Tom's Cabin,’ or any other book that we have read.”—Republican, Orleans, N. Y.
“It contains the most vivid and life—like representation of a specimen family of poor South Carolina whites we have ever read.”—E. P. Whipple, in the Boston Transcript.
“One of the most attractive works ever published, and embodying only facts.”—C. C. Hazewell, in the Traveller, Boston.
“It is the best and most truthful sketch of Southern life and character we have ever read.”—R. Shelton McKenzie, in the Press, Philadelphia.
“It equals, if not surpasses, as a romance alone, ‘uncle Tom’s Cabin,’ while it has the advantage of truth on its side.”—Republican, Towerville, N. Y.
“The most graphic and deeply interesting sketches of Southern life, character and social economy that we have ever read.”—Record, Dundee, N. Y.
“If anybody desires to know what slavery is, and what slaveholders and their negroes are, let them, read this work. The author tells his story in a superb, way. We do not see how it could be told better.”—Home Monthly, Boston.
Orders filled in the order in which they are received.
Address THE TRIBUNE,New York.
Hopedale Home school.
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks.
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, 
A.B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6, 4t
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW.
EARLVILLE, LaSalle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OUR COUNTRY,
Hark to the voice divine!-
Our Country! 'tis for thee
The mighty deeps within are stirred-
Thy great heart must be free!
Leap from thy rest!-'tis o'er!-
The call thou wilt obey-
Thy name the electric cord that thrills
A million souls to-day!
No meaner bond is owned,
No low-born aims abide, 
Where patriots light their altar-fires,
And Self is crucified.
A sacred trust is thine,
Loved country of the free!
Be firm and faithful to the end-
Hold fast thy liberty.
Though, countless be the foes
Who Truth and Right assail,
Thy cause shall nerve the stalwart arm,
The strong heart will not fail.
Powerful the treacherous host
Arrayed against thee now-
And fierce their ire as on they rush,
Intent to strike thee low;-
But vain their boast-how vain
Thine own brave sons shall prove,
When thoughts are struck from clashing swords,
A waiting world to move.
When from the burning heart
Bursts forth, in floods of fire,
An Etna-tide no force can stay,
The Avenger's wild desire.
Then will the true be strong,
And Freedom’s hallowed name
Inspire each heart, nerve every arm,
To heroes deeds of fame!
Then shall Oppression quail!-
Unmasked her falsehood then!-
The transient glory fall to dust-
Not traitors rule, but MEN.
Courage! devoted hearts!
Now, now the strife has come!
Dark waves of blood will roll around
Our altars and our home!
But, brave and steadfast still,
A noble hero band,
No arm will rest, no sword be sheathed,
Till Freedom sway the land!
Cease not the battle-cry!
Strike!-till the blood-stained sod
Redeem all men from Slavery
To Country and to God!
THESE will thy reign restore,
O sacred LIBERTY!
That glorious right is claimed alone
By "men who WILL be free!"
Chicago, III. MARY A. WHITAKER.
From the N. Y. Tribune.
A PLEA FOR THE OX.
Of all my Father's herds and flocks,
I love the Ox-the large-eyed Ox!
I think no Christian man would wrong
The Ox, so patient, calm and strong!
How huge his strength! and yet, with flowers
A child can lead this Ox of ours;
And yoke his ponderous neck with cords
Made only of the gentlest words. By fruitful Nile the Ox was lord;
By Jordan's stream his blood was poured:
In every age-with every clan-
He loves, he serves, he dies for-MAN!
And, through the long, long years of God,
Since laboring Adam delved-the sod,
I hear no human voice that mocks 
The HUE which God hath given His Ox!
While burdening toils bow down his back,
Who asks if he be WHITE or BLACK?
And when his generous blood is shed,
Who shall deny its common RED?
"Ye shall not muzzle"-God hath sworn-
"The Ox that treadeth out the corn"!
I think no Christian law ordains 
That Ox or MAN should toil in chains.
So, haply, for an Ox I pray,
That kneels and toils for us, this day;
A huge, calm, patient, large-eyed Ox,
Black-skinned, among our herds and flocks.
So long, O righteous Lord! so long
Bowed down, and yet so brave and strong-
I think no Christian, just and true,
Can spurn this poor Ox for His HUE!
I know not why he shall not toil,
Black-skinned, upon our broad, free soil!
I know not why his great free strength
May not be God’s best gift at length!
That strength which, in the limbs of SLAVES,
Like Egypt’s, only piles up graves!
But in the hands of FREEMEN, now
May build up States by axe and plow!
And rear up souls, as purely white
As angels, clothed with heavenly light;
And yield forth life-blood, richly red
As patriots' hearts have ever shed.
God help us! we are veiled within-
Or white or black-with shrouds of skin;
And, at the last, we all shall crave
Small difference in the breadth of grave!
But-when the grass grows, green and calm,
And smells above our dust, like balm-
I think our rest will sweeter be,
If over us the Ox be FREE!
A. J. H. DUGANNE.

THE NEGRO VIGIL,
On the Eve of the First of August, 1834.
BT JAMES MONTGOMERY.
"They that watch for the morning: they that watch for the morning."-PSALM. 130: 6.
Hie to the mountain afar,
All in the cool of the even;
Led by yon beautiful star,
First of the daughters of heaven:
Sweet to the slave is the-season of rest;
Something far sweeter he looks for to-night;
His heart lies awake in the depth, of his breast,
And listens till God shall say, "Let there be light!"
Climb we the mountain, and stand
High in mid-air, to inhale,
Fresh from our old fatherland,
Balm in the ocean-borne gale:
Darkness yet covers the face of the deep;
Spirit of Freedom! go forth in thy might,
To break up our bondage like infancy’s sleep, 
The moment when God shall say, "Let there be light!"
Gaze we, meanwhile, from this peak, 
Praying in thought while we gaze;
Watch for the morning's first streak,
Prayer then be turned into praise:
Shout to the valleys, "Behold ye the morn,
Long, long desired, but denied to our sight:"
Lo! myriads of slaves into men are new-born;
The word was omnipotent, "Let there be light!"
Hear it and hail it-the call
Island to island prolong;
Liberty! liberty!-all
Join in the jubilee song:
Hark! ‘tis the children's hosannas that ring;
Hark! they are free men whose voices unite;
While England, the Indies, and Africa, sing
"AMEN! HALLELUJAH!" at "Let there be light!"
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE FREED BLACKS OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
LETTER FROM MR. J. M. McKIM TO STEPHEN COLWELL, ESQ., CHAIRMAN OF THE POST ROYAL RELIEF COMMITTEE.
PHILADELPHIA July 24, 1862.
DEAR SIR:-I comply with your request to add, in this form, what, for lack of time, I was obliged to omit in my address of the 9th inst., as well as to restate some things which, for the sake of condensation, were left out of the published report.
I. One point alluded to on that occasion, but not discussed, was the mooted one of the black man’s courage. Has the negro the spirit, the pluck, to do his proper part in maintaining the status now or hereafter to be assigned him? This is a practical query, clearly within the scope which, as I understand it, my inquiries were expected to take. I will answer it by the statement of a few facts, general and particular-pro and con. First, general and con.
Servitude is not a condition favorable to the growth of courage. Chattel slavery, in fact as well as in law, unmans its victims. The Helots were not so brave as their Spartan masters. The African, on his own continent and on this, is of a milder type of character, and less given to war than the Anglo-Saxon or Celt. The negroes in our Southern States have not, since the breaking out of this rebellion, made haste to rise in insurrection; neither do they now show any especial eagerness to enlist as soldiers. In certain contingencies, not unlikely to happen, it would not be safe to count confidently on their fighting qualities.
But on the other hand, man is a fighting animal. Courage, is an essential quality of his nature, The power to face danger, and death, if needs be, without flinching, is common to the whole human family, in all countries and under all circumstances. "While the Helots were not equal to their masters, as soldiers under them, they made the Spartan arms invincible to the world. The African naturally prefers the toils of peace, but he has always, when occasion required it, shown himself capable of the arts of war. Up to this time in his history, he has never failed to fight when he has had at the same time the motive and the means. His record on his native continent, in our revolutionary war, in the war of 1812, and in the history of San Domingo, furnish ample illustrations I of this fact.
"Then why does he not now rise," it is asked, "in insurrection?" I put this question to an intelligent negro, well known at Beaufort, Prince Rivers by name, now a sergeant in the 1st regiment of South Carolina volunteers. "Why," said I, "don't the blacks on the main now rise against their masters?" Lord, sah," was the reply, "what would be de use? Dey has no chance. What could dey do? No gun, no sword, no knowledge, no chance-no nothin'."But suppose they had a chance, would they fight then? "Yes, SAH. "How do you know they would?"’ Cause I know dey would. Only let ’em know for sure-for sure, mine you-dat de white people means right"; let ‘em know for sure dat dey's fightin' for demselves and I know dey will fight." Well, Prince, wouldn't you call this a good chance?" Yes, sah, I do call this a good chance, and I tell my people may be its de last chance. Dat’s de reason I jine de soldier. I was gettin' big wages in Beaufort, but I'd rather take less, and fight for de United States; for I believe de United States is; now fightin' for me, and for my people." Do your people generally feel as you do? "?"No, sah; but dey would if dey knowed de same as I do." This is the testimony, substantially in his own words, of a black man, who is regarded where he lives as in all respects competent to bear witness on the subject.
In one of my visits to the town of Beaufort, I conversed with Hannah Small, wife of Robert Small, the hero of the "Planter," and heard from her the whole story of that adventure. According to her statement, which was amply corroborated by facts previously known, the men and women engaged in that exploit were animated by a courage that would be equal to any of the perils incident to a condition of war. The whole party had solemnly agreed in advance, that if pursued, and without hope of escape, the ship should be scuttled and sunk; and that, if she should not go down fast enough to prevent capture, they would all take hands, husband and wife, brother and sister, and jump overboard and perish together! Now, I think that, if you will add to the courage evinced in this transaction by the whole party, the cool, strategic skill of its leaders, you will have a fact that will throw some light on this mooted question.
 Before leaving the island, I had a letter from a gentleman-one of the superintendents-containing an incidental allusion to this subject, which it may not be amiss here to quote:-
"Ordinarily," says the writer, "the blacks show a lack of courage, but when an emergency occurs, they display a coolness which I would like to commend to their white brethren. About ten days ago, we were roused from our beds about daylight by one of the neighboring superintendents, with the cry that the rebels were upon us, and that we must to the boat immediately. All were startled, and much panic prevailed among the whites, (there were three men of us and two women,) and two of the men undertook, in an excited manner, to force the men of color to leave their families. The colored men stood calm and did not move, till one of them said,' ‘If massa will tell us what to do, we’ll do whatever massa says.' Then being directed, they took hold, and soon we were in our boat and under weigh. A short time after we left, some Union pickets came in, and in an excited manner told the people that the rebels would be there in twenty minutes, and would burn the plantation house. They were believed; but instead of running off as we did, the women of the party collected our household stuff, clothing and valuables, placed them in a box, while the men took it on their heads, went to the woods near by, dug &. a large pit and buried the box, and covered the place with brushwood; after that, they went about taking care of themselves and looking after their own things. They then placed the old people and children in little canoes, ran them up creeks into the marsh during high tide, and there remained concealed in the high grass for six hours, till return tide, under a blazing sun. Everything was done coolly and with method. I could not but notice the contrast."
II. Speaking, in my address, of the goods sent to the blacks, the clothing, made and unmade, &c., I intimated that their distribution was not made wholly as a charity, but that a portion of them were sold. The money to pay for these goods was made by the negroes by picking and packing cotton, planting the new crop-a dollar an acre on which had been paid by Mr. Peirce-and selling chickens, eggs, vegetables, fresh fish, and the like, to the soldiers. The negroes show quite a Yankee turn for traffic. This may be noticed by any one who will watch them on the beach at Hilton Head, where they come in their canoes to dispose of their commodities. The men of the 100th Pennsylvania and the Massachusetts 1st are quite sharp at driving a bargain, but the negroes are fully a match for them. They will dispose of their half fledged chickens at fifty cents a pair, their eggs at a quarter of a dollar a dozen, and their scanty strings of mullet or whiting at a quarter in as short a time and with as much ease as would any old Jersey marketman, brought up to the business on the curbstones of Philadelphia.
On my return from my tour, I brought home to the treasurer of the committee nearly $300-the proceeds in cash of goods sold from the Philadelphia boxes on the island of St. Helena. Mr. Philbrick, one of the superintendents from Boston on the same island, told me that he had sold for cash goods to the amount of about $800, and that he could have made the amount larger if he be had had the articles. He had purchased the goods out of his own pocket, and sold them at wholesale prices, his object being to accommodate the people and save them from the extortion of sutlers and other traders-. Since coming north, I have received a letter from this gentleman, in which he gives the items of his sales, which items throw incidental light on another subject germain to this, and I will therefore quote them. They are as follows:-
<c03>
Sugar, at 12c per Ib.-1 bbl.$18.22
Molasses, 50c per gallon,-4 bbls.78.80
Shoes, at $1 per pair, 40.00
Salt, at $1 per bushel,.19.00
Cotton Denims, 15c per yard, 2420 yards, 363.00
Tobacco, at 20c and 38c per lb. 68.00
Soap, at 20c per bar, 6.50
Ready made clothing, 223.00
$816.52
Connected with this let me state, that among the Philadelphia articles that were exposed for sale a few days before I left were a quantity of very small, low-priced looking-glasses, and a half-dozen iron pots and pans. The former came into immediate request, and for the latter-there not being enough to supply the demand-there was almost a scramble.
The point on which "incidental light" is thrown by these facts is, that of the enlarged market for Northern manufactures that will be created by an enlarged area of freedom. The average cost of maintaining a slave, independent of his food, has been computed at $13.50 per annum for a field-hand, or $34.50 a head all round. This covers the expense of two suits of clothes, two shirts, and, every six years, a pair of blankets; and, for field hands only-that is, for about one out of every three-a chip hat, or a cheap cap, and one pair of shoes; and, for such as are old enough to need it, one handkerchief. Whatever they get over this, as a general thing, they buy out of their own earnings.
Now, it will be seen that, as soon as these people become free, their wants increase. They begin to demand articles of clothing like that worn by the laborers at the North; and articles of house use, also, such as pots, kettles, pans, brushes, brooms, knives, forks, spoons, soap, candles, combs, Yankee clocks, &c. &c. Some of these articles are already in request; others are coming into demand. Ten thousand new customers, to be sure, is not a very large number in the aggregate of a nation, but they are sufficient to affect somewhat the gains of Northern men of business. Now fancy this 10,000 multiplied by 400, making 4,000,000, the total number of slaves in the country, and what an overwhelming economical argument does it furnish in favor of pushing this Port Royal experiment to its logical conclusion!
III. The subject of climate is one which, in this connection, needs a passing notice. It is a matter on which much ignorance prevails, and in regard to which even the best informed acknowledge a want of light. The climate question at the South has been made subservient to the slavery question, and there is reason to believe that the alleged facts propagated from that quarter, in favor of the one, are not much more to be relied upon than those that have been put forward in support of the other.
The favorite theory of the Charleston savans, as stated in the loose phraseology in which one oftenest hears it, is-"A night on the plantations during the height of summer is almost certain death to the Northern white man"-or, as it is put forward by its more cautious advocates-"-"The Southern climate is fatal to unacclimated white people; they cannot bear the sun in day time, nor breathe the air at night, without imminent danger of life." The inference they desire to be drawn from this assertion is, that cotton, rice and sugar can only be raised successfully at the South by black slave labor. Now, whatever may be the truth on the general subjects of climate and slavery, the fact of this argument is as lame as its logic. Our soldiers on Hilton Head, reputedly one of the least healthful of the islands, toil in the sun by day and stand guard at night; and yet up to this time they appear to be as healthy as the same number of men in similar service in other parts of the field. White carpenters from the North, who have been working for the Government there, say that they can bear exposure to the weather as well and even better than the colored carpenters working alongside of them. They can stand the sun nearly as well, and the rain and sudden changes of the weather a great deal better.
I was admonished, while debating whether or not to undertake this tour, that it would be dangerous to go to Port Royal after the first of June. When I had made up my mind to go, I was advised not to expose myself to the sun, to keep in out of the night air, not to sleep with my windows open, not to drink the water of the country, but instead, to slake my thirst with tea, coffee or claret! But I did go after the first of June; I exposed myself considerably, to the sun, and spent a large part of nearly every night in the open air; I always slept with my windows open; and I drank the water freely, in no instance resorting to either tea, coffee or claret as a means of quenching my thirst; and yet I never enjoyed better health in my life than I did there and since my return.
I am aware that "one swallow does not make a summer," nor one summer prove the truth of a theory; but when an individual's experience is backed up by that of a whole body-as is mine by that of the teachers and superintendents-a fact is furnished of important significance; and the presumption is raised that if one half of the pro-slavery climatic theory rests upon false data, as has been shown, the other half may not be much more firmly supported.
That there will be Sickness-epidemic sickness-in some cases fatal sickness, in these islands this summer, is more than probable. A rank vegetation, under a high solar heat, long continued, must produce malaria, which in turn must produce disease; but that this disease will be more virulent, or more widely spread, than the epidemics of other low lands, in regard to which there is no especial fear-as for instance, the valleys of the West, or the Atlantic slopes of the East-is a matter in regard to which much may be said on both sides. For, as a set-off against the heat of the sun at Port Royal, it must be remembered there is the refreshing sea-breeze; and, as a counteractive of the miasmata in the air, there is the salt with which the atmosphere is at all times more or less impregnated.
In view of all these facts, the most intelligent people on the island, with whom I conversed, expressed but little apprehension of disease. The truth is, more concern was manifested about the mosquitoes and fleas than about yellow fever. The one was a present and actual evil, the other a future and contingent one. As it was, the teachers and superintendents were cheerful and happy. Most of them were willing to remain throughout the season. They had come there from a high sense of duty, and there, from the same motive;", they meant to abide. At the end of three months from this time, they will be able to tell more about the climate of South Carolina than can be learned from any other source.
IV. Independent of the matter of climate, there are other sanitary aspects to this question which demand a share of attention. There is reason to suspect that the slaveholder's therapeutics are as much at fault as his politics, ethics or economics. The Southern medical man delights in the "heroic system." His favorite reliances are mercury, antimony and cantharides; drastic doses inwardly and torturing applications outwardly. When well, a Southern man's diet is salt pork, with stimulating drinks to make it digestible; when sick, his medicine is an exhausting cathartic to "clean him out," and a horse-power tonic to build him up. In other words, the knocking down and jerking up practice* of the plantation is
I brought away with me from the islands two slaveholders' journals, which came into my possession there, which contain many curious things, and, among the rest, copious notes of medical practice. One of these notes, slightly abbreviated, but in its original language, I copy by way of illustration, taking it at random from a number of the same kind. It is as follows:-
"Charlotte’s case of Tiphon Pneumonic.-On Tuesday, she came to me and said she had a bile under her arm, which gave her fever. Ordered poultice and a does of salts. Next morning, pult quicker and weaker; salts had acted freely. Next evening, my wife told me she was brought to the yard, and she thought her quite an ill negro. Saw her, and found my wife’s opinion correct, and "that she had began to do what was proper, viz., gave her flaxseed tea, with a little Tartar. Found to bleed her impossible: the Golden time had passed. She complained of violent headache. Ordered mustard poultice back of 
<c04>
carried into medicine; and this practice is carried out with rigid uniformity and disregard of exceptional cases. The same prescriptions (the expense being equal) for the black man, whose blood is thin from a hominy diet and prostrating labor, as for the white man, whose vessels are turgid with a surplus of meat and riotous living. Surely, if a Southerner can stand all this, and his climate besides, it is fair to suppose that a Northern man, with a constitution at least equal, and a better system of hygeine and medicine, might risk a residence at Port Royal with the hope of surviving it.
Investigation and experiment will, in all probability, show that the health difficulty in the way of reconstruction at the South is no more formidable than others which have already found a solution. Perhaps it will turn out in the matter of medicine, as in that of morality and religion, that the best wisdom is to be found with the slaves. "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and revealed them unto babes." A medical gentleman on Port Royal island, who serves the Association in the double capacity of surgeon and superintendent, informed me, that on entering upon his duties, he found a large number of the people ill with small pox and other fevers of a dangerous character; that not one of the small pox cases had proved fatal, though some of them were very aggravated, and that he ascribed this fact more to the skill and judgment of an old black nurse whom he had found there, than to any power of his own in the healing art. In a letter which this gentleman has since written me, he thus alludes to this subject:-
"I owe much of my success to the presence of a very excellent and intelligent colored woman,-'Aunt Hannah'’-who has been unremitting in her labors. I generally administered a laxative in me initial stages of the fever, and after that teas, as practised by the black nurses-such as orange leaf, rosemary, and life everlasting This I did from the conviction that it would be unwise to depart from uniform habits so long established and so deeply rooted. The result has been exceedingly gratifying, and has taught me that all of wisdom is not confined to the ‘schools.'’ The method of treatment by the nurses is exceedingly simple, and I am now satisfied very effectual. I am not ashamed to say that I have learned many useful lessons from these simple people."
The blacks on these islands have, from tradition and experiment, accumulated many facts in regard to the healing powers of roots, herbs, and the like, which men of science might turn to good account. They themselves, however, express more faith in the white man’s medicines than in their own. When I. would ask them what they did in this, that, or the other kind of sickness, what they gave for this, and what they took for that, they would answer invariably by mentioning some drug of the apothecary, such as ipecac, calomel, salts, or something else that "massa" would give them. "But suppose your master was not near, and there was no white man to give you anything-then what would you do?" Den we take orange leaf-de sour orange, not de sweet-(the native seedling, not the grafted,) and we make tea of him; dat make we sweat, and take away de fever "; or, "we tie up de head with 'gympson' leaves, (chammonium;) dat make we quiet and stop de pain"; or, "we give it (the child) Asia root tea; dat berry good for de worms," &c. By a course of interrogation like this, facts were elicited showing that these ignorant people have quite a copious pharmacopoeia. They have their sudorifics, anthelminthics, dieuretics, carminatives, anti-spasmodics, &c., some of which they claim to be specific in their effects, and none of which certainly are any the less valuable because called by a homely negro name, instead of a learned technic from the dictionary. It is fair to presume, that among the simple remedies of these people are to be found some quite as efficacious, while a good deal less dangerous, than many that are weighed out from the shelves of the apothecary. It is to be hoped that Gen. Saxton will have on his medical staff men competent and willing to give to this subject the attention due to its importance. The sanitary question is closely allied to the slavery question; whatever throws light upon the one aids in the solution of the other.
V. I have in my possession some letters from gentlemen at Port Royal, which I should have been pleased to introduce in the course of my address at Sansom Hall; but there was not time; neither is there space here. Nevertheless, as some of them contain matter corroborative of my statements, as well as suggestive of new subjects for thought and reflection, I will take the liberty of making a few quotations. The first shall be from a letter from Mr. Philbrick, the superintendent from Boston, to whom reference has already been made. He says:-
"They (the blacks) work on with a degree of confidence and industry that has surprised me. Though we came on to the ground nearly two months later than the date when they generally begin to prepare for the new crops, we have planted more than half the ground that was planted-last year, including a much larger breadth of corn. The generally expressed feeling is one of content; they are willing to endure a certain amount of privation for the sake of being their own masters. There is, too, a very general feeling of religious trust; a feeling that God has interfered to drive away their old masters and give them a chance for themselves. They never refer to their masters' cruelty unless closely questioned. I have not searched for cases of this kind, because I thought it a waste of time to talk over past troubles, when the present hour was so crowded with duties. They have no malice in their hearts.
"I overheard one of the servants in this house, the other day, telling another that he ought to pray for old massa.' ‘No, I won’t,’ said Joe, 'I can't’ pray for him.’ ‘O yes,' says Flora, ‘who knows but he may now be perishing for want of a meal's victuals, while you have plenty?'’ There is a lesson, thought I, in Christian forgiveness, which a woman of more culture would do well to study,. I do not believe there is another race in the world so docile or so easily managed. I am confident that no Irishman could be induced to perform the amount of labor they have accomplished this year, with so little definite promise of payment. They work well and willingly whenever they see clearly that they are to profit by their labor. It is to be regretted that so large a portion of their work this year has been upon a common field, where there was not felt that individual interest which alone can stimulate labor to its best results. This gang system is a relic of the old slave system, and it must be abandoned when the people come to work for regular wages.
"I will only say, in conclusion, that I came here from my home in dear old Massachusetts, impelled by a sense of duty, to see what could be done towards organizing a system of free labor out of the crumbling ruins of the old method I have become deeply interested in the work, and shall continue here from the same motive that brought me, till I see the organization sufficiently perfected to stand alone and sustain itself as a beacon light before the world."
Mr. Richard Soule, Jr., also of Massachusetts, in a letter containing much valuable information, has the following:-
"There is but one feeling among the negroes in respect to their present condition as compared with that under their old masters. They consider themselves much better off, and have no desire for the return of their masters. They would take to the woods, or escape in boats, they all say, if they had any intimation that their masters were coming back.
"Our experiment here has fully satisfied me of two things: first, that the negroes will do as much work 
the neck. Finding next day that the disease was very obstinate, pult increasing in swiftness and symptoms more aggravating, I put on a blister and commenced with small doses of calomel, nitre and opium, continuing the flax tea and Tartar. Saturday, the fourth day, no better; applied blister again and added a little more calomel. Symptoms increasingly worse, and now pult 120. Fifth day applied another blister and the same prescriptions as the day before. Sixth day no better. Saw Dr. H. M. Fuller and got his advice. Recommended stimulants composed of ammonia, and pepper, and said I must depend principally upon the blisters, which I have done, but see as yet no earthly benefit derived from anything yet made use of. Seventh day another Mister and pepper tea more freely; her breathing more difficult and some reluctance to swallow, a vacant look and somewhat deaf. Eighth day weaker and worse; tried another blister and had to give her wine whey to hold her up, with the ammonia and pepper tea; but all in vain.; she kept growing weaker and weaker until about nine o'clock at night, she died. Thus terminated the case which has caused me more anxiety and concern than any case of a colored person I have ever attended."
It ought to be added, that the cure of souls, and not of the body, was the professional function of this gentleman
<c05>
in the condition of freemen, and under a judicious system of day-wages, as they formerly did under the stimulus of the lash; secondly, that there "is no need of providing for the emigration of any considerable portion of them, as they would prefer to stay where they are, and as their services will be required on the places where they have been accustomed to labor.
"The time has arrived, it seems to us, for the government to take some definite steps in this matter. If the status of these blacks is now that of freemen, let us know it beyond a doubt, and then we can work for their improvement and elevation, both physically and morally, with much better heart than we do now, when the future seems so uncertain.
"If they are declared to be free, my plan would be to pay them day wages for their work, and require them to purchase all they need in the way of food and clothing, abolishing the present system of allowances and gratuities of land for private cultivation. I would have an account kept of their hours of work, precisely as is done in our work-shops in the North, the pay to be graduated according to the amount of work done. In this way they "would soon learn to appreciate the advantages of industry, and would soon acquire the thrifty habits of freemen.
"The improvement in their physical condition being first secured, I would make provision for their education by establishing schools, in convenient localities, with competent teachers, to be paid in part at first, and wholly by-and-bye, by a tax on the parents. It would not take a long time, I think, to-make the entire population self-supporting, and to enable the more thrifty of them to accumulate something in advance of their immediate wants."
I have one more letter from which I desire to quote, and I shall have done. It is from the "medical gentleman" above referred to, Dr. James P. Greves, superintendent and physician on Edgely plantation, Port Royal Island:-
"When I arrived, on the., 15th of March, I found everything here in a chaotic state. Being suddenly left by their former masters, who also took with them; the teams on the place and many of the implements, afterward the U. S. troops taking all their cattle, much cows, sheep and other stock, even their corn, they seemed to be at a loss what to do. Of course, no work of any consequence was done, and without a forthcoming crop, they must starve, or be sustained by the government. They therefore cordially welcomed me, and agreed to work under my directions. I found but one mule to do the ploughing; therefore most of the work must be done by the hoe.
"To add to the difficulties, the small pox made its appearance in an aggravated form, and there being no one here to caution them, very many had been exposed to its contagion. The result has been, that out of seventy-one residents on the place, twenty-nine, have had small pox, and fifty eight have been prostrated with other forms of sickness-measles being also very prevalent. No one case of small pox has proved fatul." I owe much, &c., (already quoted.) With all these drawbacks, there are now planted, and in fine growing condition, about ninety acres of corn, forty-three of cotton, and seventeen of sweet potatoes, peas, and other vegetables. If the season prove favorable, we shall have a surplus. At present, the population is almost entirely sustained by government, and must so continue to be until the corn is ripe. They are generally destitute of clothing of all kinds. Their masters issued to them their last supply in December, 1860; consequently they suffer from want of necessary clothing. This, want has been partially supplied from the North; but very few shoes have been sent. We need shoes now for fall use. Flannels, when they can be had, are worn the year round, on account of the humidity of the climate. I would here state, to the honor of our soldiers, that many of the people would have been naked had they not received clothing from them.
"I have been impressed from the first with the belief that the primary care of the superintendents should be for the welfare of their bodies. Very little real progress can be made in reforming any people whose physique is neglected. They are naturally a religious class, and that part of their nature needs but little direct stimulation; but they need to be led into correct habits of body; and how can this be accomplished if they are allowed to continue to live in filthy, dark and contracted huts? You have seen a specimen of them. How can you raise a healthy ambition among such a people, under such circumstances? Improve their physical, and they will rapidly improve in the moral and religious departments of their nature. In school, they learn rapidly, and all ages join, from gray hairs to childhood. For the first four weeks, I taught in the evening, being too much occupied through the day by other pressing duties. Since that time, assisted by Miss Howell and Miss Wright, we have had four sessions a day, to accommodate the working, as well as the other classes of our people. Many of them now read in the Testament, and nearly all have made good progress; about fifty in all have been thus taught.
They have their vices. Deception and petty thieving prevail. They are careless, indolent, and improvident. They have a miserable habit of scolding and using authoritative language to one another. All these vices are clearly the result of slave education, and will gradually disappear under improved conditions. Miss Howell has established a sewing school among them, which was much needed. Heretofore, when a garment began to give way, it was thrown aside; now they see the benefit of mending. But very little progress can be made until larger and better dwellings are furnished them. I hope government will allow the avails of the cotton crop to be appropriated in part to an improvement in this respect. There is now not a saw-mill on any of the islands, although there is abundance of timber. A most economical expenditure at this time would be the erection of such a mill, and the employment of a good Yankee to run it. The fall is now near at hand, and better houses are an absolute necessity. The tenements on this place are rotting down, and leak badly. How the people are to be made comfortable during the next winter, I do not know. Had they new and roomy cabins, they would be ambitious to keep them clean. The groundwork of reform and progress must be improvement in their physical condition and surroundings. They excel the whites in emotional religion, but their intellects need cultivation; there must be education, therefore, to establish an equilibrium. I am satisfied that the law of kindness will work like a charm with them. As teachers and guides, we need unwavering patience and steady perseverance-never losing sight of the fact that habits inwrought by time into the texture of their being require time to eradicate. In several instances, I have been tried to the utmost by serious quarrels among the people, which seemed to require prompt interference; but I always kept cool, and put off adjudication for twenty-four hours. In the meantime, they have had time, for reflection, and before the twenty-four hours would be expired, the party most in the wrong would come and acknowledge the wrong, and promise amendment. If one is honest with them, and gets their confidence, the rest is easily accomplished."
The suggestions' in this last extract, in regard to things needed by the blacks, remind me of a memorandum that was furnished me before leaving the islands, and which it was understood I should in some-way or other make public. It was as follows:-
"The clothes most in request here are coats, shirts and trousers for men; jackets, shirts and trousers for boys from eight to sixteen; frocks and chemises for women and girls. Flannels are needed, and should be provided in the proportion of not less than one to six; that is, one sixth of the under-garments should be flannel, to meet the necessities of the weakly and infirm. Clothes for newly-born babies and for babies up to a year old much needed; also for school children of both" sexes, from five to twelve, and for older boys and girls, from eight to sixteen.
"In purchasing new things, don't let the mistake be made of catering to what by some is considered' the negro taste.'’ Their taste is the same as ours. The prettiest things,-that is, the things we would consider prettiest-are always first chosen. Yellow osnabergs are their detestation; they are ugly in themselves, and remind the people of their condition as slaves.
"Made-up clothing is always acceptable, especially that for children, which should all be ready-made; but it is not necessary that clothes for the adult should be made up. This they can do for themselves. Many of them prefer to buy the stuff and make it up their own way."
Before closing this letter, sir, I deem it proper to state, that the enterprise in which your Committee is interested is under obligations for many acts of kindness and co-operation performed by the officers of the army and navy at Port Royal, especially the two distinguished gentlemen who respectively command at that point. The deep interest manifested by General Hunter in the success of this movement-his protecting care over the blacks, and his considerate kindness to their white assistants-have been matters of grateful acknowledgment to the friends of the cause, as well as of bitter misrepresentation to its foes. To no other military man in the field, perhaps, are the freed blacks of Port Royal, or their friends, or the honor of the Country, so far as they are concerned, so much indebted, as to David. Hunter, Major-General commanding the Department of the South. 
To Commodore Dupont is due a similar acknowledgment. While at Beaufort, looking over a book containing accounts of the New York Association,. I saw an entry to this effect:-"52 dresses, 20 shirts, 200 yards calico, needles, &c., &c., got by Commodore
<c06>
Dupont for the freed people on St. Simond’s Island. This little circumstance, of no importance in itself, indicates the practical interest taken by the head of our fleet at Port Royal in the welfare of the deserted and defenceless people whom he regards as in some one thrown upon his care. In an interview I had with him on the Wabash, I said: "Commodore, the gentlemen on our committee will no be greatly pleased to learn that you have had no disposition to throw obstacles in the way of their enterprise." Obstacles, my dear sir."! was the reply, "So far from it, it has been my greatest pleasure to co-operate with these philanthropic gentlemen."
I am particular in these details of feeling and conduct manifested by the two gentlemen named, chiefly because their services to the freed people call for recognition, but partly also because their respective antecedents and history are such as to invest them with a peculiar interest in the eyes of Philadelphians. Gen. Hunter was born near this city, on the Jersey side of the Delaware. His father, who was Professor of Mathematics in Princeton College, was a native of Pennsylvania. The General himself is closely connected by family ties with prominent citizen living in and resident near this city. We have, therefore, a local as well as a general interest in his fortunes and good name. The same may be said of Commodore Dupont. In the interview already referred to, be alluded, and I thought, with some pride, to Philadelphia as his "nearest city," "and spoke of its people as including many of his best and most honored friends. For these reasons, therefore, I hope to be pardoned for these somewhat personal details.
Without further protracting this letter, already too much extended, I subscribe myself, dear sir,
Yours, very respectfully,
J. M. McKIM. 

A NOVEL REGATTA.
The Newbern, N. C., correspondent of the New York Times gives the following account of a regatta between a crew of contrabands and a crew of white seamen, in which the former came off victorious:-
"Quite an exciting and interesting regatta came off the other day in front of the naval headquarters. One of the two boats entered was manned by six contraband seamen, beautifully attired in man of war costume, and the other was manned by eight white seamen, who were considered the crack crew of these waters. Distance was offered the contra band crew, who had only been seamen some three months, but their captain refused to accept of any advantage whatever, and insisted on giving the white seamen the advantage of two men. Everything being in readiness, the word was given, and of went the boats, throwing the crowd, white and black, into the most intense excitement. Judge of the astonishment of all when the boat containing the contrabands was seen to turn the mile post first, and great was the excitement and deafening were the cheers as they came in some three rods in advance of the white crew, who were dripping with perspiration and thoroughly mortified at the unexpected result. They were inclined to think the contest was an unfair one, until the captain of the contrabands offered to renew the race by having the crews exchange boats, which proposition was not accepted by the white seamen, for fear of a like result. 
"The captain said his contrabands could not only pull a small boat faster and with more steadiness than the same number of white seamen, but that they, with others he had on board, could man his big guns with more agility and skill in time of action than any white seamen he had ever seen. Also, that they were more attentive to duty, and performed more work, and were more civil and orderly, than the white seamen."
"WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHENTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTAINED."
"NO OTHER WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE AS A WORK OF REFERENCE."
"IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE
THE
Rebellion Record, 
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE
Is the only publication which gives the HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON.
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote as the
HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this
GREAT REBELLION,
IT CONTAINS,-I.,
The Causes of the Great Struggle and the Great Issues before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT. 
II. 
A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dec. 17th, 1860-giving, in the form of a Disry, a concise, succinct, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc,
CONSISTING OF ALL THE
OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES, SKIRMISHES, 
&c., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS 
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c.
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops, IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDINANCES, MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and Ballads Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel of the 
NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLASS OP BATTLES.
The Rebellion Record 
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with TWO FINE PORTRAITS. 50 cents each.
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volume.
NOW READY,
VOLUME8 ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3,75 each; sheep, $4.00; half morose
or half calf antique, $5.00 each.
A NEW EDITION,
Sold exclusively by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel.
Agents wanted, to whom liberal commissions will be given.
Copies of the REBELLION RECORD, in Parts or in Volumes, will be sent, free of expense, on receipt of price. Sent in registered letters, the publisher will be responsible for all remittances.
Clubs will be supplied at the following rates:
FIVE COPIES of each volume, in semi-monthly Nos., or monthly Parts, to one address, or separately, $12.00
TEN COPIES, $22.50
Remittances must be sent in registered letters, otherwise the Publisher will not be responsible, and in current funds.
G. P. PUTNAM, Publisher,
582 BROADWAY, NEW YORK
C. T. EVANS GEN AGENCY. 
