THE LIBERATOR.

-IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21, CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
FIVE copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind. 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXIX. NO. 20. BOSTON, FRIDAY,MAY 20, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1593. 
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION. 
<c01>
SLAVERY IN NEW  MEXICO.
'AN ACT to provide for the protection of Property in Slaves.
'Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of NEW MEXICO!:
SEC.2. Every person who shall steal any slave with the intent that the OWNER, or any one having an interest in such slave, present or future, vested or contingent, legal or equitable, shall be deprived of the use or benefit of such slave, shall upon conviction suffer imprisonment for a term not more than ten nor less than four years, and be fined in a sum not more than two thousand nor less than five hundred dollars. And any person who shall by violence, seduction, or other means, take and carry or entice away any slave, with the like intent, shall be deemed and held for every purpose whatever, to have stolen such slave within the meaning of this act.
SEC. 5. Any person who shall hire, entice, per­suade, or in any manner induce any slave to absent himself from the service or custody of his OWNER or master, or who shall upon any pretence harbor or maintain any slave to absent himself from such service or custody, shall upon conviction thereof suffer fine and imprisonment as provided in section 4 of this Act, and shall besides be liable to the owner or master in a civil suit for damages.
SEC. 11. If any sheriff of any county within this Territory shall fail or refuse to receive and keep with proper care, any runaway slave so offered to him for safe-keeping he shall be fined in a sum not less than five hundred dollars and shall be-ineligible for re-election to said office. 
SEC. 19. Any OWNER of a slave who shall suffer such slave to hire his own time, or go at large and employ himself as a free man for more than twenty-four hours at one  time shall, upon conviction there­of he fined in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars to ensure to the County Treasury. 
SEC. 22. No slave, free negro or mulatto shall be permitted to give evidence in any court against a free white person, but against each other they shall be competent witnesses! 
SEV. 23. The EMANCIPATION of slaves within this Territory is TOTALLY PROHIBITED!
SEC. 25. No slave shall be permitted to go from the premises of his OWNER or master after sunset or before sunrise, without a written pass signifying the particular place or places to which such slave is permitted to go; and any white person authorized to take any slave who upon demand shall not exhibit such pass shall cause such slave to be whipped with not more than thirty-nine stripes upon his bare back.
SEC. 30. That this act shall take effect from and after its passage.

HIGHER LAW IN MISSISSIPPI.
From the Weekly News of April 14th, published at Enterprise, Miss]
TO SHIPOWNERS AND MASTERS OF OUR MERCANTILE MARINE.
We, the undersigned, will pay three hundred dollars ($300,) per head for one thousand (1,000) native Africans, between  the ages of fourteen (14), and twenty (20) years, (of sexes equal,) (likely, sound and healthy.).to be delivered within twelve (12) months from this date at some point which is accessible by land, between the ports of Pensacola, Florida, and Galveston, Texas. The contractors giving thirty (30) days' notice as to the time and place of delivery; or we will pay fifty ($50) dollars extra if delivered to us at Enterprise, Clark county, Miss. 
Wm. S. Price, Sen., A. V. Wolverton, 
Wm. Tom. Smith, Joseph Borden,
George W. Doby, James M. Hand,
A. Perryman, George W. Freeman,
Reese Price, Sen., J. L. George,
Abram Carr, Samuel R., Oliphant,
Thos. Wolverton, Wm. Marshall,
Samuel W. Howze, James W. Winn,
Wm. S. Price, Jr., James M. Parks.
April 10, 1859.
That we will meet the above, reference is made to the following houses in Mobile, Ala: Boykin & Mc Rae; Tate, Stewart & Co., G. Goode, Patrick Irwin & Co., G. P. Kelly.
We who have signed this advertisement, profess to be law-abiding citizens, but cannot respect any act purporting to be law, which we believe to be unconstitutional, as such we esteem that which interdicts the slave trade, either domestic or foreign.
They are regarded as merchandize and slaves here, and in their native country by their brethren; the letter condition is forbidden by Divine Law, but the same law says to the Hebrews, You shall enslave the heathen around you, and they shall be a perpetual inheritance for your children. We have never known native Africans semi-civilized but by our plan of the American institution of domestic slavery.
We feel that great mutual benefits have, and are following from the institution, and esteem it a duty to extend the privileges of becoming semi-civilized to other of Africa's degraded race, by mingling, at least, a like number with the four millions now among us, that reciprocal benefits may result.
THE ECHO SLAVE TRADE CASE.-The Charleston Mercury, alluding to the discharge of the persons arrested and tried for slave trading on board of the brig Echo, remarks upon the action of the jury: 
'It is most probable they have been satisfied with thinking that it would be not only inconsistent, but cruel and hypocritical for them, as members of a community where slaves are bought and sold every day, and are as much and as frequently articles of commerce as the sugar and molasses which they produce, to pass condemnation and a verdict of guilty of death upon men whose only crime was that they were going to a far country to bring in more supplies of these articles of trade-these commodities; and in this case not even to trespass upon our soil, but to carry them to a foreign land, to Cube, and merely throw them into the market of nations.
It is most probable that this was the inducing ground of the verdict: and, if so, every other case will be echo to this.  Further prosecution is idle, expensive and vain.'
When the black man is placed on a social and political equality, then comes the degradation of the whites, and the decay of those political and other interests which lie at the foundation of the true happiness and progress of a State and people.-Philadelphia Pennsylvanian,
<c02>
SELECTIONS. 
From the Pioneer of April 30. 
THE LIBERATOR 
Appends to an article in No. 15 of the Pioneer, concerning the fate of the Know-Nothing question in Massachusetts, some appropriate observations, which we earnestly commend to the consideration of our fellow-countrymen, and of which we desire at the same time to avail ourselves for some remarks in reply.
It says that none have had more reason than the Abolitionists to complain of the misuse of the suffrage on the part of foreigners; but that never in any way has an attempt been made by the Aboli­tionists to restrict the right of foreigners; further­more, that the Abolitionists have always acted on principles like those, for example, so admirably set forth in the speech delivered by Mr. Schurz in this city.
We can assure the Liberator that the German Radicals,-for these alone are counted together in the decisive conflict-have always heartily acknowledged the honorable attitude of the American Abolitionists. The German Radicals openly adopt, as their rule of conduct, that he who is truly free in regard to one question, must also be in regard to others; and, in the case of the Abolitionists, they have not found this conclusion a deceitful one, at least in respect of the question of foreigners. A chief point of difference, however, which keeps both apart, lies in the difference of religion. The German radicals are, without exception, also perfectly free in religious matters; they are far beyond all religion, as being a fatal deception in the hands of priests and jugglers of the people, and, on account of this infidelity have, in spite of their anti-slavery sentiments, been avoided or looked upon with aversion by a great part of the American Abolitionists. They have, too, good grounds for their anti-religious convictions; for they are thinking men, and do not wish to intrude upon those who allow no examination to their arguments of reason, but who seek to make the Bible a compendium of the rights of man,-yes, and its creeds test-questions in the conflict with the slaveholder. But for this religious difference, which scarcely produces intolerance among the Americans, except with the slaves of religion, the American and German Abolitionists, would long since have made a better acquaintance with one another. Of course, the language also affords a serious obstacle to the attainment of this end. The Americans, moreover, have this disadvantage, that, being generally unacquainted with the beautiful German language, they are wholly, or almost wholly, ignorant of the exertions of their German co-workers; the Germans have this disadvantage, that, with difficulty and only after long years, they aquire the ability, by reading and writing, to express themselves sufficiently in  the language of the country. It will be required of them to understand perfectly how to speak and to write English, while the Americans need only read and translate German. It would therefore be of great assistance to both, if the enlightened Americans would exert themselves to understand German even as well as the Germans are wont to English, after they have been a few months in America. As we see, a pen is employed by the Liberator, as there ought to be by every first class American newspaper, to which the language of Goethe, Schiller, Lessing, &c. is not foreign. We regret not to have known this before. The Liberator would otherwise long since have had an opportunity to learn that the German Radicals are as decided Abolitionists as the Americans; that they have always had in view its motto-' No union with slaveholders -and have only for practical reasons supported the Republicans as a party necessary for the time being; especially that the editor of the Pioneer has for ten years been working in this spirit, and that no slave has ever been so stoutly and remorselessly flogged as have those Germans who uphold the party of the slaveholders, by their own countrymen of the press. To these efforts it is just to ascribe the fact, that a large part of the earlier German emigrants, mostly united body and soul to the Democratic party, have come over to the side of freedom, and so much the more, on this account,  must our better-minded countrymen have felt indignant at the two years amendment, which threatened to throw those efforts flat in their faces, and to drive back the converts into the camp of the slaveholders.
The Liberator justly says:
'We have no sort of respect for any foreign naturalized citizen who is denouncing as unjust and tyrannical the proposition to add two years to the term fixed by the naturalization law, before the right to vote can be enjoyed, but who, at the same time, cares nothing that four millions of native-born Americans are stripped of every right, ranked with the brutes, bought and sold as property, and subjected to insults, outrages and tortures innumerable. His love for liberty is nothing but personal selfishness.' 
The German Radicals not only subscribe to this remark, word for word, but if by this means they could free the slaves-by sending the Germans who vote for the slave-holders (' voting cattle’) for some years, in place of the negroes, to the Southern school of human rights, they would put it into execution at once. 
The Liberator is perfectly correct when it makes a broad difference between the Germans and the Irish, and severely criticizes the latter as incorrigible tools of the slaveholders. The position here proves true, that freedom or illiberality in regard to one question determines freedom or illiberality in regard to others. The sun shines on every side of the globe, and freedom is, as it were, a sun. The Irish would not be such incorrigible tools of the slaveholders, if they were not, as the Liberator ob­serves with much stress, such incorrigible tools of their priests. Catholicism and slavery are mated together in America, as Catholicism and tyranny are in Europe. But for this evil should there be no remedy at all? Should the really unpromising Irish be lost for freedom?. Are not the Catholic Austrians and French to be made free, after they have been liberated in one way or another from their tyrants? Ought not the Irish Americans to vote for freedom, as soon as the fetters which the priestly organization, the Catholic hierarchy, has fastened about their necks, are stricken off? We are desirous to learn the opinion of the Liberator concerning a proposition which was made five years ago to the Americans, in a platform of the Liberal Germans, but which has not received the slightest consideration. We subjoin the paragraphs of that platform which relate to this subject:

RELIGIOUS QUESTIONS. 
We consider the right of free expression of religious conscience untouchable as we do the right of free expression of opinion in general; we therefore accord to the believer the same liberty to make known his convictions as we do the non-believer, as long as the rights of others are not violated thereby. But from this very principle of liberty of conscience we are decidedly opposed to all compulsion inflicted to dissenting persuasions, by laws unconstitutionally restricting the liberty of expression.
<c03>
Religion is a private matter-it has nothing to do with policy; hence it is despotism to compel citizens, by political means, to religious manifestations or omissions contrary to their private persuasions. We therefore hold the Sabbath-laws, Thanksgiving days, prayers in Congress and Legislatures, the <illegible> upon the Bible, the introduction of the Bible into the free schools, the exclusion of ‘Atheists’ from legal acts, etc., as an open violation of human rights as well as of the Constitution, and demand their removal.
But whilst no political interference should inflict compulsion to religious liberty, still less it should be lawful to use the liberty of religion as a pretext and instrument for organizations dangerous to the country, to create States within the State, especially when such organizations are conducted under the leading influence of foreign potentates We therefore consider the recognition of the Roman Hierarchy in this country as anti-Republican, its position as anti-Democratic, and its continuance as highly dangerous.
Our Catholic as well as our Protestant fellow-citizens have the right to elect their priests and teachers themselves in a Democratic manner, but no Romish potentate has, or should be allowed to have, the right to install them here as his subjects and tools. The Catholic priests, on account of their subordination and allegiance to their Romish superior, cannot take upon themselves even the duties of citizens, but, on the other hand, make the most dangerous use of the rights of citizens, by transferring church property, sometimes amounting to millions, and property belonging to their parishes or dioceses upon their names, and thus, by means of money and wealth, strengthening their ecclesiastical influence to the most dangerous degree of power. If we consider that every Romish priest is an officer and every obedient Catholic a subject of the Pope, and that the Pope-the murderer of the Roman republic-must be a natural enemy of the North American republic, then the unavoidability of the conflict is evident, which this country prepares for itself by the recognition of a Roman Hierarchy, and the toleration of their organizations of power. The consequences of such a contradictory and mischievous relation lie the more manifestly before the eyes of every one, as the leading organs of the Romish Hierarchy openly establish the dogma, that Democracy is anti-Catholic, and that every Catholic is bound, by the salvation of his soul, to overthrow the Constitution of the United States, if the Pope orders him. Such an open avowal of murderous intentions against the Republic cannot be misinterpreted by even the most short-sighted, and it is treason to favor them. 
If the Pope, the chief of the Catholic Hierarchy, has the right to appoint his agents here, then the Emperor of Russia, as the chief of the Greek Church, has the same right, and then the sovereignty of the American people is an entire falsehood.
It is our opinion that the position of the Popish officers in this country, in this case, comes under those provisions of the Constitution, according to which it is not allowed to accept offices and titles from princes and foreign States, and according to which high treason is committed by him ‘who adheres to the enemies of the United States, or who favors or helps them.’ 
We therefore demand, for the interest of the Republic, that an end shall be put to the exercise of the power of the Pope by the instrumentality of bishops and other agents within the United States; that his interference in the affairs of our citizens here be energetically prevented, and that the order of Jesuits be treated as a professed enemy of the republic.’ 
Now here is a remedy, a constitutional remedy, contrived to protect the interests of freedom as well as the rights of the Catholic citizens. This remedy can be as effective by means of the Legislatures of the several States as by means of Congress, and it strikes us that Massachusetts ought to take the lead in setting a good example.
Such an ‘Amendment of the Constitution,' depend upon it, would not be opposed by all the. Germans in a body.

From the Southern [Cork, Ireland,] Reporter.
SLAVERY IN THE UNITED STATES. 
On Saturday, April 16th, at the Imperial Hotel, Miss S. P. Remond, of Massachusetts, delivered her highly interesting lecture on the above important subject.
Owing to the short notice given (which was unavoidable) the audience was limited, and many friends of the slave were, for many reasons, unable to at tend.
The chair was taken by FRANCIS B. BEAMISH, Esq. M. P., President of the “Cork Anti-Slavery Society, who, before, introducing Miss Remond, said, he wished it to be clearly understood, that he occupied the chair, as President of the Anti-Slavery Society, and quite unconnected with any electioneering movement now going on in the city.
Miss Remond then came forward and said, she would again bring before Irish men and women an appeal for their sympathies in favor of her clients, the colored population of the United States. The institution of Slavery is a time-honored compact. ‘The bargain,' say the Americans, ’cannot be annulled, our fathers formed the constitution.' The Christian pulpit says the same. One may be a good citizen and a slave-driver, but it is the act of a traitor to utter a word against the idolized institution, the retention of men and women as chattels. There is no doubt that a dissolution of the Union must take place. No affinity exists between the Northern and Southern States. The institutions are based on different foundations. Much hatred is felt by the Southern towards their Northern brethren, in fact, the breach is each hour becoming wider, it must end in separation; New York, Massachusetts and Vermont are exerting themselves in the cause of freedom. The citizens of New York have presented petitions to Congress to annul the Fugitive Slave Law. Though they may not succeed just now, they will not give it up-and right must finally triumph over might. Slavery degrades social and public morality. Honesty in politics is a novelty in America; everything is made to yield to the great object of holding the colored people in bondage. It was stated by a Southerner that they would have Cuba by fair means or foul, but have it they would; so much for American justice. Many horrors connected with the institution of slavery might be related, but we only skim the surface-no audience could sit and listen to the depths of wickedness involved in this degrading system. That slaves may be well clothed and fed, does not alter the matter one whit-the principle is the important point; that human beings should have no legal rights, but be liable to be bought and sold like goods and chattels, is the crying evil. Man has not the ownership of his own mind and body. Thinking, reasoning beings, daily sold by an auctioneer; women and children struck off to the highest bidder. These are facts constantly before the public, though the horrors of the details may not be to well known. It is sometimes asked in Great Britain, What can we do to remedy these evils? Much, almost the only thing Americans fear, is public opinion in these countries-more uni-
<c04>
ty would exist between England and the New World but for the Wretched institution of slavery. Mr. Spurgeon, of London, expressed his intention of lecturing in America, and his opinions on Southern bondage are well known; therefore it was broadly hinted if the Rev. gentleman ventured across the water, he would be mobbed. America sends mis­sionaries everywhere, and yet no greater heathens exist than some of the poor, neglected, untaught slaves. Give to the cause your sympathy and moral suasion; abolition does not exclude other benevolent objects. The most active promoters of anti-slavery principles are those forward in everything elevating and good at home and abroad. The great blessing of freedom enjoyed by the inhabitants of the British Isles, is what is required to make America a glorious country-notwithstanding her vaunted liberty, her government is despotic, and it is your protest against such despotism which is earnestly hoped for.
After the lecture was concluded, the Vice President, Richard Dowden Richard, Esq., moved a, vote of thanks to Miss Remond, for her two eloquent and interesting addresses, containing so much valuable information. He hoped her earnestness would stir up fresh zeal and energy in the cause of freedom in Cork and elsewhere. 
J. E. WHITE, Esq., seconded the motion, and thanked Mr. Beamish for attending the meeting when matters of such interest to himself were going forward at present in the town. 
The president put the vote of thanks from the chair; at the same time expressing his admiration of the lectures delivered.
Miss Remond having briefly responded, the meeting dispersed.

From the Clonmel Chronicle.
LECTURE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY. 
Thursday evening last a highly respectable audience, numbering several of the Society of Friends, assembled in the Lecture-hall of the Mechanics' In­stitute, Clonmel, to hear the touching and eloquent appeal made by a native of that great Continent, Miss S. P. Remond, in behalf of the poor victims of American Slavery. Too frequently have the cries of their terrible bondage been wafted across the Atlantic; too oft and deeply have the inhabitants of this country been impressed with the lamentable results of the terrible, yet all-powerful’ Institution,' which holds enthralled the bodies-aye, and the very souls-of FOUR MILLION'S of plantation  slaves; too sensibly have the lovers of LIBERTY, living under the glorious Constitution of England:-too sensibly have they felt the privileges they enjoy not to lend a willing ear to the appeal of this gifted lady for sympathy with the cause she so nobly advocates. It was a highly interesting occasion, and one calculated to arouse the most latent feelings of sorrow for the indignity to which so vast a number of human beings, without distinction of color, class, or country, forced into this horrid bondage, were consigned, and, as the lecturer proceeded to denounce the tyrant oligarchy which so fearfully influenced American Slave system, she commended in the highest terms of eulogy those Northern States that have so long been the advocates of Freedom, and have so ardently supported the’ abolition’ movement that is going forward in that Western land. She told of the difficulties that surrounded the advocate of the poor’ Plantation slave,' whether in the Senate or abroad, and evidenced the sad effect which had over taken one of the most philanthropic members of Congress, that ever raised his voice as an abolitionist! In what feeling terms did she not depict the dangers that beset the path of the wretched fugitive slave, and with warmth revert to the delight experienced, when on reaching the wished-for borne, the Canadian shore, they found beneath the banner of St. George, a refuge which the’ Stars and Stripes' denied them. The lecture occupied an hour, and at its conclusion, the noble missionary from the fields of American Slavery, was greeted with an applause general and sincere-indeed, in the course of her address, the sympathy of her deeply attentive audi­tory found vent in frequent bursts of approval.
The chairman of the meeting, Alderman Hackett, in well chosen terms, alluded to the noble appeal to which they had all listened, and felt assured they would sympathize with Miss Remond, in her Christian and ennobling mission.
Mr. Bagwell, M.P., rose to propose the first resolution: he, though unprepared to speak, said that having heard the spirit-stirring recital from the lips of so gifted a lady, as the lecturer had proved herself to be, he believed little could be added by even one endowed with the eloquence with which unfortunately he was not, to render the appeal she had made more forcible. The Hon. gentleman referred to certain points which could not but strike every person with the feeling that America was averse to the putting down of the traffic in human flesh, and commented on the course which England had pursued, when through pressure of fear-the dread of the peace party of involving the country in the consequence of war with the United States- the ministry of Great Britain he thought wrongly, but in their wisdom had. considered it right to withdraw the’ ‘RIGHT OF SEARCH’ that had been adopted by us to prevent the increase of the slave trade. He had just been reading that evening the Declaration of Independence, and what a contrast, the Charter upon which they then based their liberties, and the course now pursued. To him it appeared most extraordinary how, a country which once evinced a love of liberty, should have fallen away to such an extent. When Washington appeared, it was declared by the Republic,’ We hold these truths that all mankind are equal; they are endowed with certain inalienable rights, life and liberty, in the pursuit of happiness. Mr. Bagwell concluded by regretting the change which had produced so much of slavery, and felt assured that the sympathy of the British public with the sufferings of the Western world would not be denied. He moved the following resolution:
Resolved, That this meeting having heard the admirable lecture which has been so eloquently and forcibly delivered this evening by Miss Remond, express their concurrence with the sentiments and observa­tions with which the lecturer has elucidated her subject; and this meeting do further desire to express their detestation of a system which would level a large portion of our fellow-creatures with beasts of burthen debarring them of their privileges as rational beings and Christians, and depriving them not only of liberty, but of all those familiar and endearing ties which would tend to render their bondage more supportable, though not less to be condemned and deplored.
The Rev. J. Dill, in seconding this resolution, said that the vilest and most abominable system of which he ever read or heard was that of American slavery. It was the most degrading and tyrannic ever practised; history recorded nothing comparable with it for cruelty, inhumanity, and barbarity. Records were in existence of Egyptian slavery, of slavery even in the Holy Land, of Spartan slavery, but that which existed in the States of America was more accursed, more degrading than ever disgraced a pagan people, than ever existed in the world (applause). In America that system was becoming daily more despotic and unbearable, but its being so
<c05>
was only tending to bring about its final extinction. (Applause).
Gerald Fitzgerald, Esq., Sub-Sheriff, proposed the second resolution, and, in forcible language, contrasted the position of the’ hereditary bondsmen' of England and Ireland with that of the unhappy millions who had the privilege of living beneath the’ merciful freedom' of’ American Independence!’ He complimented, in handsome and just terms, the lady who had so ably awakened and enlisted their heartiest sympathy.
Resolved, That this meeting express their sympathy with Miss Remond in her mission for the suppression of the unnatural system, the horrors of which have been so vividly brought before us this evening in her lecture, and that this meeting most earnestly wish her GOD SPEED in her praiseworthy and humane efforts to enlist Christian sympathy and public opinion in the cause which she so feelingly and forcibly advocates.
The Rev. James Orr seconded the resolution, which was put from the chair, and passed. 
We regret that one single individual in the gallery should have so far forgotten the respect due to the splendid theme which occupied the attention of the audience, and so injudiciously evinced a sympathy with the system of American degradation and slavery, as to loudly cry out’ No’ when the resolution was put from the chair. Whoever he was, be must have felt the severe lesson which the Chairman's timely remarks administered. 
Mr. Bagwell having been moved to the second chair, a special vote of thanks was upon the motion of William Sibbald, Esq., V. P., seconded by J. Clibborn, Esq., passed to Aid. Hackett, and the audience separated.

VOICE OF THE PEOPLE.
ALLIANCE, O., April 28, 1859. 
EDITOR OF THE LEADER.-At a large and enthusiastic meeting of the citizens of Alliance and vicinity, convened at the Town Hall, the following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted, and as Secretary of the meeting, I was authorized to forward a copy to you for publication in the Leader. 
Truly yours,
E. HAWLEY.
Whereas, between public sentiment in the State of Ohio and the enactments of Congress in relation to slavery, with the determination of the National Executive to enforce them, there exists an antagonism so extreme and irreconcilable as to render collisions between the State and National authorities not merely probable but inevitable, and whereas, as we are advised, such an emergency now exists or is in immediate prospect, and since it is the part of wisdom to be prepared to take position on the part of right, we, a portion of the citizens of Ohio in public meeting assembled to give expression to our own views, and to solicit an expression from our fellow citizens elsewhere, do hereby resolve:
1st. That protection and allegiance are reciprocal relations, and from the citizen who accepts and employs the privilege of the elective franchise, allegiance is first due to that authority from which he demands and receives protection in person and property.
2d. That upon the soil of Ohio the citizen is indebted to the authority of the State for protection to person and property, and the advantages generally accruing from civil government. 
3d. Resolved, Therefore, that by every consideration which imposes allegiance to civil government, the duty of the individual in any conflict of jurisdiction between a State and Federal Government, and the duty of every person to uphold the sovereignty of the State in which he resides against interference by the Federal authorities, is clear and indisputable, and the more especially when this conflict is the consequence of an attempt of the State to protect and secure the individual in the enjoyment of his natural rights.
4th. Resolved, That in our belief our State Judiciary and Executive may rely with the fullest confidence upon the ability, and the dispositions of our citizens generally, to sustain the authorities in any measure which may become necessary to preserve the honor of Ohio and her sovereignty, and repel invasions thereof by the National authorities unconstitutionally made under the exactions of the slave owning interest, such as we witness in the attempt to ignore the sovereignty of Ohio on her own soil, in the management of the trial of our fellow-citizens at Cleveland, for the alleged offence of rescuing a slave. 
5th. Resolved, That we hereby pledge to the authorities of our beloved State,’ our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor.’ if required to sustain the liberties of the citizens intact, the honor of the State unsullied, and her sovereignty unimpaired. 
6th. Resolved, That we call upon our fellow citizens throughout the State, through primary meetings like the present, to give expression to public sentiment, that not only our own official servants, but the nation and world may learn whether they prefer to be the submissive slaves of the despotism which assails us, or live as freemen, or die in the attempt to do so.

VOICE OF A CONFERENCE. 
The following resolutions were passed unanimously, and with enthusiasm, by the Conference of North Eastern Ohio, at their session in Bloomfield on the 26th and 27th insts. Be assured that those who passed them, and the Churches and people whom they represent, are ready to render more efficient aid when called for.
Thine for the right, AMOS DRESSER. 
Orwell, April 28th, 1859.
Resolved 1. That we sympathize deeply with our brethren and fellow-citizens now undergoing a trial before the U. S. District Court at Cleveland, and assure them that we will remember them in our supplications to Him, who will finally award all men according to their deeds.
Resolved 2. That in our judgment those brethren, in snatching a fellow-being from the grasp of men stealers, have obeyed the law of God and equal love, and have the Divine approval: and that the Christian world should sustain them and follow their example.
Resolved 3. That Slavery and Freedom are so antagonistic in their character that it is impossible to obey the laws of Freedom, of Natural rights, and the dictates of humanity, and give countenance to any enactment that favors slavery.
Resolved 4. That as Christian patriots and philanthropists who love our country, we are bound, as the only means of preserving our Union in purity, to oppose all unjust laws, and especially the law commanding us to return the fugitive from bondage: for God has said to each one' Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant that is escaped from his master unto thee.
Resolved 5. That when the Federal Government, by her officers, enters our State, seizes, our citizens, and attempts to fine imprison or in any way oppress them, especially for acts of humanity that we consider our rights invaded; and we call upon the
<c06>
authorities of the State to use all its power to oppose such interference, and protect the rights and liberties of all its citizens,-and that the whole Christian world will approve and sustain our Judges and Executive in going to the full extent of their power in maintaining inviolate the sovereignty of the State of Ohio.
Resolved 6. That a copy of these resolutions be signed by the Moderator and Scribe and sent to Prof. H. E. Peck, and to the Leader and Herald of Cleveland for publication.
LESTER TAYLOR, Moderator. 
AMOS DRESSER, Scribe.
CLEVELAND (OHIO) CONGREGATIONAL CONFERENCE.-At the regular session of this Conference at East Cleveland, April 29, the following resolves were” unanimously adopted:
Whereas, Several members of churches in our connection, and one beloved member of this Conference, together with several other worthy citizens of Oberlin and Wellington, have been recently indicted, arrested, imprisoned and put upon their trial for the alleged crime of rescuing a fugitive slave from his claimants, we deem this a proper occasion to declare, 
1. That in our judgment, so far as the testimony has yet transpired, it does not convict those brethren and fellow-citizens of knowingly' violating the Fugitive Slave Law, inasmuch as the colored man was seized stealthily, after the manner of kidnappers, and the pipers shown as authority were supposed to be legally defective.
2. That even if the case had been an open violation of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1793 and of 1850, it would not have been a violation of the higher law of God, but rather a case of heroic Christian obedience thereto, and the more clearly so inasmuch as the rescue was made without violence.
3.That the voice of the Christian world does, and ought to sustain those who, at the call of suffering humanity and of Divinely revealed duty, dare to obey God rather than men.'
4.That we sympathize deeply with our brethren, suffering under the oppressive action of this Fugitive Slave Law, and deem it our privilege to’ remember them while in bonds as bound with them, commending them to the loving care of Him who, eighteen hundred years ago, “ endured grief, suffering wrongfully.”‘
5.That we call the attention of all our Christian brethren and fellow-citizens throughout the nation to the present case, as developing the utter, inevitable antagonism of Slavery to the dictates of humanity and to the demands of the law of equal, impartial love, and as developing also the natural oppressiveness of the Slave Power toward,, not the bond only, but the free-developments which show that a system of Slavery like our own is not fit to be tolerated anywhere among the common offspring of our one Father, and, least of all, in a nation which claims to be not only civilized but Christian.
SCENE IN A UNTIED STATES COURT.-The Cleveland Herald relates the following incident of the slave rescue trial in that place. Judge Spaulding was summing up for the defence:
'At one point in his argument, in which he replied to the assertion of government counsel that there was no danger of white men being captured as slaves, he pointed to a boy as white as any in the room, and with a burst of eloquence that thrilled the house, said that lad but a few weeks since was manumitted in this city, before Probate Judge Tilden, by his lawful master. The house was electrified, and some indiscreet persons calling out,’ let the boy stand up,' the lad did stand up, and probably not comprehending what was or what was not proper in a Court of Justice, maintained his elevated position some moments, although told by the Court imme­diately on his rising, to take his seat. The effect of making profert of a white slave in Court, was magical, and was a conclusive answer to the government counsel on that point.'
There was lots of’ political preaching’ in Cleveland on the Sabbath, while the rescuers were incarcerated in jail for refusing to be tried by the packed jury that had convicted one of their number. About every pulpit in the city raised its voice against the outrage. Professor Peck, one of the prisoners, preached from the steps of the prison to an audience of over four thousand people. The public sympathy with the rescuers was general and decided throughout the city, and the immense throng listened with breathless attention as the eloquent divine brought the truth of God to bear against oppression, and enforced the duty of obeying God. rather than man where their commands conflict. On the whole, it was a glorious day for freedom.
The (Philadelphia) Pennsylvania is very indignant and very sorry that Daniel Webster was declared a free man by Commissioner Longworth, last week. It thinks that Philadelphia may yet regret that it suffered such fanaticism. The ques­tion is not one of humanity or of law, but of dry goods and other merchandise. It pathetically exclaims:
‘We are not the solitary ones of whom Southern men can buy. That should never be forgotten. Nevertheless, we find many prominent in their connections with the South, fostering and aiding the Abolition press in propagating ideas fatal to our mutual interest, and to the existence of the Union. Therefore, let this painful error of a misled judgment be the occasion for our fellow-citizens to awake and look straight at the disastrous consequences which certainly must follow, if we allow this fanaticism to grow stronger, and to separate the natural union of the mutual producers of commerce.’ 
Oh, the City of Brotherly Love! Oh, the Hall of the Declaration of Independence! Oh, the Bell that proclaimed’ Liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants thereof?’ Oh, the Dry Goods! Oh, the Wet Goods! Oh, Webster of 1850! and, oh, Daniel Webster of 1859!-N. Y. Tribune.
DISMISSION OF A PASTOR FOR REFUSING HIS PULPIT TO A SLAVEHOLDER.-A council held at Peru, March 24th and 25th, voted the dismission of Rev. Moses M. Longley from the pastorate of the Congregational church in that place. The reasons for this action are sufficiently set forth in the resolutions adopted-‘that pastors have the entire control of their own pulpits on all religious occasions, and that therefore we regard brother Longley's exclusion of a slaveholder from his pulpit as an action which he was fully authorized to take, which under the circumstances we endorse, claiming the right of equal freedom for every Congregational pastor, and that we regret that there should have been any difference of opinion on this point among his people,' and that’ the council express their regrets that a minority, at first small, have been so determined and persist­ent in their efforts to secure the removal of their, pastor, thus marring his happiness and hindering his usefulness, and at length rendering his dismissal necessary.’ Mr. Longley is a true man, of strong anti slavery convictions, and a wide circle of friends will regret his dismission while they will honor, his course in closing his pulpit against a buyer and seller of human flesh and souls.-Northampton Gaz-
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed mother States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERES, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTIONM SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk is it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can, only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MAY 20. 1859.
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERT CONVENTION will be held in the city of Boston, on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, May 25th and 26th; which we earnestly hope will be attended, from every part of New England, by the old and long-tried friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause, and by those who, younger and fresher in the good work, are emphatically to be relied upon for continuing and upholding it to its sure and perfect triumph.
The Convention will assemble at 10 o'clock of Wednesday, the 25th, at MERCANTILE HALL, in Summer street, at which place all the meetings of the Convention will be held, excepting that on Wednesday evening, when the Convention will assemble at the Music HALL, Summer street.
Friends of the Anti-Slavery movement, whatever the place of their residence, are invited to attend, and will be cordially welcomed.
Among the speakers at the Convention, the following are expected: WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, THOMAS W. HIGGINSON, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, CHARLES L. REMOND, PARKER PILLSBURY, EDMUND QUINCY, E. H. HEYWOOD, J. MILLER MCKIM, WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. FOSS, STEPHEN S. FOSTER, HENRT C. WRIGHT, and others.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rev. Sec.
ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE
American Anti-Slavery Society,
PRONOGRATHIC REPORT BY JAMES M. W. YERRINTON.
The Twenty-sixth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society commenced at the Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on the morning of Tuesday, May 10. A large company of the friends of the slave was present, gathered together from various sections of the country, including very many from New England, and from Pennsylvania and other States.
The meeting was called to order at half-past 10 o'clock by WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President of the Society, who read the fifth and part of the fifteenth chapter of Exodus.
Rev. A. D. MAYO, of Albany, then offered an impressive prayer to the God of the oppressed.
FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, then read the Treasurer's Report, as follows:
Annual Account of the American Anti-Slavery Society, from May 1, 1858, to May 1, 1859.
DR.
To balance from last year $2,459 04
To Standard and donations $11,322 32
To publication (sale of Pamphlets) $104 09
$13,885 45
CR.
By Standard and Office Expenses 7,511 62
By Agents 3,739 93
By Publication of 181 25
By balance to new account 2,452 65
$13,885 45
E. E. New York, May 1st, 1859.
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
I have examined the several items of which the above account is composed, and find the same to be correct, with the proper vouchers and transfer of balances from the previous year. J. S. GIBBONS.
The report was laid on the table, for consideration at a subsequent meeting.
The PRESIDENT then said-Whatever the upholders and apologists of slavery in our land may say, the heart of universal humanity always responds to the principles and sentiments of liberty, and always rises in rebellion against any proposition for enslavement.
Outside of the United States, take the judgment of the world in regard to our slave system, and it will fall like a thunderbolt upon which there prevails, is unwilling to have a chattel slave on its soil; and, consequently, Europe is competent to sit in judgment upon America, and to sent over its testimony against our gigantic and unparalleled iniquity. I never yet knew an American who did not claim the right to speak his mind in regard to Russian, Austrian, and Neapolitan despotism, and in regard to tyranny in all parts of the world, out of our country; and, therefore, it is perfectly legitimate for any man, or body of men, in Europe, to speak their minds as freely in opposition to the sin of American slavery, and against the perpetuating of the worst despotism to be found in the world.
I wish, before the speaking commences, to read two or three very short addresses which have come to us recently from the old world; and it is due to those who have sent these addresses over to this country, that they should be read at this Anniversary. The first is a very brief, but excellent, address from the inhabitants of Warrington, England, and its neighborhood, to the inhabitants of the United States.
Mr. Garrison then read the letter, which we have already published. At its conclusion, he said:. The next is an address, not from the 'infidels' of Belgium, but from the Protestants of Belgium, unless they are infidels for espousing the cause of the poor and needy, and those who have few to help them. This address, also, we have already published.
I have but one other foreign testimony to give, said Mr. G., in addition to those I have already read. It comes from a high source-namely, from the great leader of the friends of Italian liberty. It is dated 'London, March 21,1851,' and oh! how wide a contrast is presented by this letter of Mazzini to the blameworthy and reprehensible conduct of Kossuth, during his visit to this country, in reference to slavery!
The letter of Mazzini was then read, after which, Mr. GARRISON presented the following series of resolutions:
Resolved, That if transforming rational and immortal beings into merchandise and perishable property be not a sin of the first magnitude, and a crime of the deepest dye, then crime and sin nowhere exist on earth, and there are none to be called to repentance.
Resolved, That, conceding to Southern slaveholders the right to hold slaves on Southern soil; and affirming that they may, and in many cases do, exercise this right in accordance with justice, humanity, and the spirit of Christianity, is tantamount to a vindication of slavery universally; and, therefore, in advocating the re-establish of the slave system where-ever it has been abolished at the North, the South acts with strict logical consistency, and cannot be met or answered, except by those who maintain the inherent sinfulness of slaveholding, under all circumstances.
Resolved, That they who have no moral objection to the existence of slavery at the South, can have none to its existence at the North; and all such, by their constant defence of the slaveholder from the imputation of criminality, are, as far as in them lies, preparing the way for the introduction of slavery into every free State.
Resolved, That between the recognition of the slave as a man, endowed by his Creator with an inalienable right to liberty, and therefore entitled to immediate and unconditional emancipation, and the denial of his common human nature, and his association with cattle, swine and other property, there is no half-way ground.
<c02>
Resolved, That the enormities of slavery are so multitudinous and appalling-in its annihilation of all human rights, its sacrifice of parental and filial ties, its contempt for all the laws of God, its disregard of all the commands of the Gospel-that to resist its immediate and total abolition is the most comprehensive method of extending and perpetuating the kingdom of Satan, and opening the flood-gates of all iniquity.
Resolved, That the friends of the enslaved in this land have nothing to retract or modify in regard to their charges against the holders of slaves or their abettors-against the American Church, and the clergy of the country generally-against the political parties and their the American Constitution and Union; based as those charges are, and have been, upon a broad foundation of facts which cannot be refuted, and which still remain unchanged.
Resolved, That we cordially accept the taunting admonition of Southern slaveholders, 'Mind your own business,' as it is our business to see that we neither oppress nor connive at oppression; that we re-duce to practice the 'self-evident truths' of the Declaration of Independence; that we 'hide the outcast, and bewray not him that wandereth;' that we make our soil free to every fugitive slave who stands upon it; and that we cleanse ourselves from all blood-guiltiness.
Resolved, That it is the wildest incoherency, on the part of the South, in one breath to charge us of the North with meddling with that which does not concern us, and for which we are not responsible, and in the next to remind us of the pro-slavery constitutional guarantees we have given her, and insist on our fulfilling them to the letter-requiring us to allow the slave-hunter to seize his victims in any part of our Northern domains-to recognize slave property as valid as any other property in all the Territories of the Union-to perpetuate a slave representation in Congress-to guarantee the suppression of every slave insurrection, even by the strong arm of the National Government, if need be-to-consent to the admission into the Union of as many slave States as can be created, and however created-and to aid in the extension of slavery by the acquisition of new territory, obtained whether by purchase, bribery, perfidy, invasion or conquest.
Resolved, That it is the rightful business and imperative duty of the people of the North, without delay, to withdraw themselves from their present alliance with the Southern traffickers in human flesh to proclaim the unnatural and guilty compact between the free States and the slave States at an end and to take such measures for the formation of a Northern Union as shall be in accordance with the principles of justice, humanity, and impartial liberty.
SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY. 
The President then introduced PARKER PILLSBURY, of New Hampshire, who delivered the following very impressive address:-
MR. PRESIDENT: It is one of the most disagreable duties of an Abolitionist to have to address a public assembly at its opening session, on his own account; but when he has to stand as a substitute for another, and that other a very desirable advocate, it becomes still more embarrassing and unpleasant. [Rev. A. M. MILLIGAN, of Pennsylvania, was expected to make the opening address, but had not arrived at this time.]
I should like to preface the few remarks I have to offer with two additional resolutions:
Resolved, That while we rejoice in all the indications of an advancing state of public opinion against slavery, we would still be mindful that our greatest danger is not from actual slaveholders, and the open, bold, and blasphemous defenders and extenders of the institution in State or Church, in politics or pulpits, but rather from those who make specious and strong anti-slavery pretensions and professions, like the Republican party, the Boston American Tract Society, the recently formed New England and New York Church Anti-Slavery Society, the New York Independent, with its array of clerical editors and contributors, that are still in governmental or ecclesiastical union and fellowship with slavery and slaveholders.
Resolved, That while these organizations are thus, through their pretensions and professions, able to absorb the awakened public sympathy, control the public charity, paralyze the public conscience, and pervert even well-intended action into channels that flow only with compromise, corruption and crime, it becomes our duty faithfully to rebuke them, and to warn the people against them, as the enemies of that only radical and genuine gospel through which, under God, deliverance can come to the enslaved.
There seems no need to argue or defend propositions so plain as those in the resolutions read. There certainly can be no need of any argument as to the character and quality of the pro-slavery political parties and churches of the country. If there were need of it, Dr. Cheever is far more able than I am to do that work, and quite as ready and willing. But the question is, who shall reprove Dr. Cheever? The question is, who shall examine, illustrate and report upon the character and quality of what we call Anti-Slavery in the Church and in the Government? There certainly is great need of new definitions in our country. The reading of that Belgian protest is very significant in exhibiting the necessity of such definitions. Here is an address, earnest, sincere, honest, well-meant, in every respect; but it is a very badly directed address. There is a strange and very unfortunate misnomer about it. It is directed to those 'Churches and Christians in the United States who uphold slavery!' (Laughter.) Mr. Chairman, it is time this Society, or some other gathering, should instruct the Christians in Belgium, if they have them there, and in all other parts of the world, on that particular subject. They have no conception of what slavery is. If they understood what it is in our country, and what it is to sustain and uphold it, not to say extend it, they would never address any memorial in that way. We have other evils in our country besides slavery-small in comparison, but still evils. We have horse-stealing, we have robbery of hen-roosts, we have adultery and adulterers, and we have all the details of crime and sin forbidden or condemned in the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount; but how would a petition or remonstrance look, coming from Great Britain or from the Continent, addressed 'to those Christians and Christian Churches of the United States that uphold-stealing'?-'to those Christians and Christian Churches in the United States that uphold adultery and fornication'?' to those Christians and Christian Churches in the United States that rob hen-roosts, or establish and institute the robbing of hen-roosts'? If the people of those countries understood slavery to be as bad as the robbing of hen-roosts, they would not charge our Christians and Christian Churches with it. They would conceive it in bad taste to do so, and would not do it, for that reason, if no other. Here we have slavery. We talk about it as 'the sum of all villanies, 'but' has come to be so moderate a term in our country, that 'the sum of all villainies' is not much to be ashamed of. We have slavery-an unutterable, indescribable abomination. Language breaks down when we attempt to describe it. Every other sin in the land pales into innocence when you speak of slavery; and yet, there is such a mistaken conception of its character in every country of the civilized world, that it is really supposed and believed that Christians may honestly uphold and extend the institution. Now, I think we must have new definitions of Christian and Christianity, of the Church and of Ministers of the Gospel, and all those technical religious terms. Let the whole vocabulary be changed, or else let us make it understood that slavery is a thing so utterly horrible and atrocious in its character and in its quality, that no one can even presume it possible that Christians can hold slaves.
<c03>
But, then we must not wonder that the Belgian Churches made that mistake, for in our country the same difficulty exists. We have just had formed in Massachusetts a 'Church Anti-Slavery Association.' It is made up entirely of ministers and members of evangelical Churches. There was assumed to be a necessity for it, on the part of those under whose auspices it was formed, because, as they said, there was no Church organization bearing a testimony against slavery. They summoned all the spirit and energy they could arouse in the Churches of New England and New York, and there gathered in the city of Worcester some fifty ministers and members of the various evangelical denominations in the six New England States and the State of New York. I suppose, if there be any preference in our religious anti-slavery professions and pretensions, it should be allowed to that body; that if there be any best to it, that is the best of it. And yet. what do we find? They could not agree in denouncing slavery as a sin of any such magnitude as to involve slaveholders universally, and went so far as absolutely to affirm it as their belief that slaveholders might be Christians! Now, then, if not only New and Old School General Assemblies, and American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and the American Tract Society, and the American Bible Society, and all the great popular ecclesiastical institutions and associations of our country, if not only these avow the doctrine, that slavery is so mild, so gentle, so innocent an institution, that even slaveholders may be Christians, but if, in addition to that, the very Church. Anti-Slavery Society itself-the only one existing in the land-also affirms the same doctrine, then is it, I say, that the Belgian Churches and the Churches of Great-Britain should make the same mistake, and believe that even the 'sum of all villanies' is, after all, so light an offence, that the very sacramental host of God's elect may it, without any impeachment of their Christian character.
Mr. Chairman, I am afraid that it is partly our fault that such a mistake exists. I am afraid it is partly the fault of our association, in according so much of anti-slavery fidelity and character to these spurious institutions and associations of our country, that this terrible mistake has been made all over the civilized world; and I came to this meeting with the hope that we should be able to do something to correct that mistake. I do not care anything about the American Tract Society; Dr. Cheever can take care of that. I do not care anything about the American Bible Society; The New York Independent is watching that. I care very little about the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, Old School or New School; almost the whole of New England Orthodoxy condemns them. But my difficulty is, to so shape and so qualify the anti-slavery enterprise, that Christians (if they have that commodity in Great Britain and the Old World) may not make the mistake which those of Belgium appear to have made. I do not think it is for us to be particular about unmasking the American Tract Society, nor any of those large popular associations to which I have referred, but there is a necessity that we discriminate between true and false-betwixt that which is real, and that which is only apparent-betwixt that which is a specious sham, and that which is a stern and almighty reality: and we never shall do it until we take the institutions and associations mentioned in those resolutions which I read to the meeting, and class them where they belong-on the side of the oppressor, heart and hand.
It does not follow that we must consequently brand every man in those institutions as at heart a slaveholder, but it is absolutely necessary that we make slavery so hateful and so horrible, that the instincts of universal humanity will condemn it, and never dream that it is possible that a man can be a slaveholder, and yet be a Christian. We have scenes of a fearful character, of late, in Washington and elsewhere; and I suppose no one would ever think it possible that Daniel E. Sickles could be a Christian, or his murdered victim much of a saint, or his wife, still living, any better than Mary Magdalene, after her conversion. But what is all that is terrible connected with those individually, compared with slavery? If every black Sickles in the South, whose bed and marriage rights have been invaded, could avenge his wrong in the same terrible manner, what a Golgotha, what a field of blood, would not the whole South present to our view! (Applause.) And yet, we are to believe that the institution which multiplies that Washington tragedy ten thousand times ten thousand fold is not so accursed but that men may be partakers in its guilt, and yet be Christians!
Mr. Chairman, I for one have got tired of these mistakes. I fear I have had something to do with the authorship of them. I, too, have expressed my approbation of the position and preaching of men like Dr. Cheever and Henry Ward Beecher; but yet, the vilest slave-breeder and slave-driver in all the land is not vile enough to induce those men to withdraw Christian fellowship and communion from him. Mr. President, what shall we think of it? Do you wish me, or does this Society wish me, to extend the right hand of anti-slavery fellowship to men who, however bold and faithful their denunciations against slavery, will yet clasp in Christian brotherhood the right hand of the murderous slaveholder of the South?
Now, I think one thing further ought to be said. The men for whom apology would oftenest be made those good Christian men referred to in the Belgian protest, and by the Church Anti-Slavery Association recently formed in Worcester-the men in whose behalf exceptions are made-I have no doubt are the most guilty men of all; for the institution would crumble to pieces by its own rottenness, if it were only cemented by such depravities as the hearts and hands of 'Simon Legrees,'-would it not? It is your 'Shelbys' and 'St. Clares' who perpetuate the slave system; those men to whom Dr. Cheever gives the right hand of Christian fellowship. What can a 'Simon Legree' do to perpetuate slavery? What can the miserable slave-breeder, who boasts that his beautiful females are soon to become mothers, himself the father of their children, do for the system? What can those men do who offer a reward of $25 for the best specimen of an imported MALE African, as was done, not long since, by an agricultural Society in one of the counties of Georgia? Can anything be more clear, Mr. President, than that such men rain down odium on the institution? Why, the very electricity of their damning depravity would dash it in pieces, were it not for the lightning rods reared in its defence by your 'Shelbys' and 'St.Clares.' (Loud applause.) And then Dr. Cheever, and Ward Beecher, and the New York Independent must extend to them the right hand of Christian fellowship, and the American Anti-Slavery must acknowledge them as real, religious, Christian anti-slavery preachers and men! I comprehend not such logic.
I fear, Mr. President, that 'judgment must begin at the house of God' in this matter, and that it is we ourselves who have yet to repent. When we shall have made slavery the atrocity that it is, and shall have denied to slaveholders and their abettors all right and claim to be considered other than thieves, adulterers and robbers, and when we shall have clasped our Church Anti-Slavery Society and Boston American Tract Society with them, as they choose to class themselves, we shall at least have washed our hands from all participation in that guilt. And that is of more consequence than any other work we can ever do. 'He that is not for us is against ' was the doctrine on Judea's plains eighteen hundred years ago. I do not believe that philosophy will ever change. Where is Henry Ward Beecher to-day? Where will he be to-morrow? Though entreated and besought to come to our platform, and give his testimony in behalf of the anti-slavery movement, we see him not. But when that corrupt, conservative, and absolutely criminal Tract Society invites him to its platform, he makes
<c04>
haste to comply. To-morrow you must go there to hear him.
Mr. Chairman, I must bring my remarks to a speedy close, for my own as well as for yours, and for that of the audience. But one word in regard to the political aspect of the present movement. The resolution refers to the Republican party; and there, again, I think, we have labored under a great mistake. That the party comprises multitudes whose hearts are right in the sight of God, I have no doubt; but the resolution affirms the truth in regard to them, that their sympathies, their purposes, their consciences their acts, are all perverted, in consequence of the false and corrupt leadership of that party. When Stephen Arnold Douglas made his first speech apparently evidencing his defection from the Democratic party, I was much struck with the attentive ear that the Republican press and party of the North gave him; and though, only few months before, they had absolutely corrupted the English language with their new terms of execration in regard to him and his position, that single speech seemed to be as effective as the prayer of the thief on the cross, and they made haste to exclaim to Stephen Arnold Douglas, ' thou be with us in our political paradise.' At the very next meeting I addressed, I said that Stephen A. Douglas would be the next Presidential candidate of the Republican party. Of course, they hissed me furiously; but then, I was so used to that, I mistook it for their natural language. (Laughter and applause.) However, I said then, 'Perhaps that is too strong; but if not Douglas, it will a strictly Douglas man.' Here, I think, I was a little wrong. I do not like to make confessions, but I have to sometimes; for it has come to pass already that they have dropped nearly all non-slaveholding candidates, and the question with the party now is, which of a clique of slaveholders they shall select as their standard-bearer in the next Presidential campaign. Last Friday morning, the New York Tribune said editorially, and fortified it with any amount of circumlocution and amplification, that to-day there is no issue whatever between the Democratic and Republican parties involving the question of slavery, except it be the re-opening of the African slave trade, and on that question the Democratic party has not avowed an opinion. You may read it, any of yon, in last Friday's Tribune. I know no other authority better than the New York Tribune, and I suppose that statement is true. Well, there was a whole column of comments in The Tribune on a letter of Mr. Bates, of Missouri. The Massachusetts Republican papers have published the letter of Mr. Bates, or extracts from it, and they affirm-at least, one of them has affirmed-that if Mr. Bates is brought forward by Missouri in the next Republican Convention, with the promise that the State of Missouri will support him in the canvass, his claims cannot well be set aside. That is what the Republican press generally has said, so far as it has spoken, of Mr. Bates, and The Tribune has said even worse, I have not time to read it. But I will read what Mr. Bates said:
'As to the negro question-I have always thought and often declared in speech and in print, that it is a pestilent question [that is what the Republican party generally begin to think], the agitation of which has never done good to any party, section or class, and never can do good, unless it be accounted good to stir up the angry passions of men, and exasperate the increasing jealousy of sections, and by those bad means foist some unfit men into office, and keep some fit men out. It is a sensitive question, into whose dangerous vortex it is quite possible for good men to be drawn unawares. But when I see a man, at the South, or the North, of mature age, and some experience, persist in urging the question, after the sorrowful experience of the last few years, I can attribute his conduct to no higher motive than personal ambition and sectional prejudice.'
That is Mr. Bates, and here is a whole column of the Tribune, editorial, in apology for that man!
Well, the other day I saw, among other names mentioned as possible candidates for the Republican party, the name of Mr. Botts, of Virginia. He, too, has written a letter, and here is what he has said:
'My position on the question of slavery is this, and, so far from wishing to conceal it, I desire it should be known to all. Muzzles were made for dogs, and not for men, and no press and no party can put a muzzle on my mouth, so lone as I value my freedom. I make bold, then, to proclaim that I am no slavery propagandist.'
He is, like Mr. Fremont, no 'slavery propagandist.' There is capital enough, you see, to set a man up as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States by the Republican party. But hear him a word further:
'I will resort to all proper remedies to protect and defend slavery where it exists. [Just like Mr. Seward there.] But I will neither assist in nor encourage any attempt to force it upon a reluctant people any where, and still less will I justify the use of the military power of the country to establish it in any of the territories.'
Good Fremont doctrine; good Republican sentiment. But there is one further remark, which I am afraid the parties who have mentioned his name did not read. He says:
'If it finds its way there by legislative means, it is all but never by force, through any instrumentality of mine. [That is what the Tribune says: if they want slavery in Kansas, let them have it.] I am myself a slaveholder, and all the property my children have in the world is slave property, inherited from their mother; and he who undertakes to connect my name, or my opinion, with Abolitionists, is either a knave or a fool, and both. And this is the only answer I have to make to them.'
Mr. Chairman, I read these passages merely to show the probability, inasmuch as we have it now from the Tribune itself, that there is no issue between the Democratic and Republican parties at the present time involving the question of slavery; that not Stephen A. Douglas, as I said, but some slaveholder, whose property is in slaves, and the property of whose children is in slaves, will be selected as the next standard-bearer of the Republican party.
Now, then, I think the same mistake that we have made in regard to the Church, in regard to Dr. Cheever, and those other institutions and individuals whose names I mentioned, we have also made in regard to politics, and that we are absolutely strengthening the hands of our enemies, and at our own expense, when we make it; until it has come to this now, that the Republican party turns round, and reproaches the Anti-Slavery Society for its non-efficiency in the anti-slavery cause. They have exceeded, transcended, outdone us, so they say. They have accomplished all that we ever proposed to accomplish, and have done a great deal more that we did not dream of doing. When I hear Republicans talk in that way of the Anti-Slavery Society, especially of the American Society, with its Executive Committee, its editors, its organs, and other appliances, I am reminded of the anecdote of an old slave in Virginia, who constituted the mate and all hands of a craft that plied up and down one of the rivers or bays of that State, with its cargo of onions and other vegetables, in which that State sometimes finds occasion to deal when it is not wholly confined to the breeding of slaves. The captain was the owner of the craft. The slave's name was Mopus; but the latter syllable was generally dropped, and then it was 'Mope'-and a pretty expressive name, too. One night, the captain, having been beating about in rough weather some time, and feeling quite tired out, as the night was clear, and the north star very conspicuous in the heavens, thought he would trust old Mopus with the helm, and turn in and go to sleep So he called Mopus to him to give him his directions, and told him to steer directly for the north star, and then went below and turned in. Well, old Mopus kept the schooner straight very well for a time, until by and by it occurred to him that he might as well smoke his pipe, and so he went to work to light it. While he was doing this, a breeze sprung up, the sail began to flap, he became a little confused, and before he had fully recovered his self-possession, the vessel had wheeled right about, and was making straight for Point Comfort, from whence they had started. By and by the captain woke up, and on going
<c05>
upon deck, saw that the schooner was headed the wrong way, and began to swear at old Mopus, and ask him what he had been about. Said he, 'Didn't I tell you to steer for the north star? and here you have been running with it right astern.' 'Ok, yes,' said Mopus, 'gory,<illegible>, we passed the north, star an hour ago.' (Laughter.) So it is with the Republican party; it has absolutely passed the north star toward which it pointed in its beginning, and fancies that while sailing directly back to slaveholders, slavery, and compromises with slavery, it is absolutely making the voyage successfully and prosperously. (Applause.)
Mr. Chairman, how long shall we allow the people. through any lack on our part, to be thus deceived? Who Will undeceive the Churches of Belgium and of Great Britain? Who will undeceive the partially enlightened and partially repentant Democrats, and rescue them from such perversion of well-intended action, as is all action in the Republican party?
I have already exhausted my time and I have. I will simply say this, in closing, that if we shall, at this Anniversary, succeed in drawing such a line of distinction between Slavery and Anti-Slavery that there shall be no such mistakes made hereafter, in Great Britain, in Belgium, and even in our own country, as we now see are common and everywhere occurring, I fancy we shall have held the most important and most profitable y anniversary ever held since our enterprise was first set on foot. (Loud applause.)
A gentleman rose among the audience, and took exception to Mr. Pillsbury's remark, that Dr. Cheever would fellowship the vilest slaveholder in the South He said he had himself left the Church with which he had been connected for twenty years, to identify himself with Dr. Cheever, when he was assailed by enemies without and foes within, because he had said that 'slaveholders were guilty of murder, and, had they lived under the Jewish dispensation, would, every one of them, have been hung.' He said there was not a word of truth in Mr. Pillsbury's statement, and that, if he had known the sentiments of Dr. Cheever, he would not have dared to stand up before a New York audience, and say he was in full fellowship with slaveholders. (Applause.)
SPEECH OF REV. DR. FURNESS.
Rev. WM. H. FURNESS, of Philadelphia, was then introduced to the audience, and received with hearty applause. He said:
MR. PRESIDENT-I am always happy and proud to be invited to stand upon this platform, where the best cause of this age, or of any age, has been so long and so faithfully served. It is a great privilege in many respects, but especially because it is impossible to plead for our enslaved brother without doing ourselves infinitely more good than we do to the cause. Accordingly, I came here, not to speak, but to listen; not to give, but to receive. And I do not say this out of modesty. I believe that I express the experience of every man who has had any experience, whether it be large or small, in the Anti-Slavery cause, when I say, that the best he can do for it is as nothing in comparison with the good that it does to him. It enlightens the understanding, it warms the heart, and it gives us some taste of the quality of the highest ideas that we know. This, then, is our first and chief answer to the ceaseless cry which is urged against all who take any interest in Anti-Slavery-the charge of incessant and useless agitation. We are told over and over again-'What is the use of talking? Slavery is no nearer being abolished now than it was when you began; in fact, it is extending its borders; it has got absolute possession of the political power of the country, and where is the use of this endless talking?' It is enough if we liberate ourselves. If we do not liberate the Southern slave, our African brother, we are emancipating ourselves. Mr. Webster, in some speech or letter of his, I forget which, in denouncing the Abolitionists as fanatics, quotes from a distinguished friend, whom he does not name, who writes to him from England, describing the Abolitionists after the same manner-as ' firebrands,' as 'men who throw the world into confusion, and then, when reproached with the consequences, all they have to say is, Liberavi animam meam.' Mr. Webster did not translate the phrase-Liberavi animam meam-I have freed my own soul.' And I say, that when the condition of the world and society around me is such that it forbids me individual freedom, I am disposed, as God shall give me strength, to sacrifice every thing to be free. (Loud applause.) The best fruit of the anti-slavery agitation is to be found among anti-slavery people; in the acts of heroism which it has called forth in the poor African, of whom it is common to say that he is incompetent to take care of himself, and therefore he ought to be a slave. It is from that race that the heroes of the present age spring.
But, apart from this reflective influence of anti-slavery, we are continually witnessing cheering signs of advancement. I wish I saw the abolition of slavery approaching as rapidly as I see disappearing the prejudice of color. I came this morning down one of the avenues, and met a car which had a conspicuous sign-'Colored people allowed to ride in this car'! Of course, the inference was, that they were not allowed to ride in other cars; still, it was a cheering sign, that men, anxious to make money, ventured to make so bold and public an advertisement as that A little while ago, I had the pleasure of meeting the grand-daughter of a colored man whose memory universally cherished in the city where I live-an accomplished young lady, eminently qualified as a teacher, and employed for some time in the public schools of Massachusetts. She has recently been chosen to an eminent position there. We were speaking of prejudice of color among children, and she remarked that she had had small opportunity of observing that, inasmuch as in the school in which she had been teaching, there was not a single colored child. I think, for the conservative, old-fogy town of Salem, that is a very considerable advance. I do not see any greater advance to be made in that direction. Not long since I went to a colored Institute, in the city of Philadelphia, where a very faithful and thorough examinapupils was going on. I heard a class of boys and girls, of different hues, (as Samuel Ward says, 'from jet black to the soft dissolving views'!)-I heard them recite; they were very thoroughly examined in Latin, and the examination would have done credit to any classical school in our country. I felt convinced, as I listened to those children, that not only was the prejudice against complexion to disappear, but that it was in the power of these children to make this complexion distinguished, to associate it with all that is intellectual and noble; because I believe that, in our very nature, our intellectual sympathies are infinitely stronger than any of our animal antipathies. I think that wherever the prejudice against color is disappearing, the way is prepared for the abolition of slavery. We also had very cheering signs in Philadelphia recently, during the progress of the last Fugitive Slave Law case. The pavement around the court-house was crowded, and we could almost feel in the air that it was the rising spirit of liberty that was permeating the atmosphere. (Applause.) The city police were employed to keep the pavement clear, and to one of them I said, 'Do you know that every man who is on the pavement here is more assuredly about hi business than if he were elsewhere engaged; and if the men and women of the city were aware of the importance of the principles here involved, they would leave every employment in which they are engaged as impertinent, and come here and attend to their own business?' The answer he gave me was-'I would willingly forfeit my star and my staff to get that man free; they would not dare to trust him in the hands of the police; we would have him thirty miles out of the city in less than no time.' (Applause.)
All these things reveal to us the fact, that the grand
<c06>
principle or truth which is at the centre of the Anti-Slavery movement is vital; that is, in its nature, destined to conquer, and that it will grow, not only without human will, but against human will, and thus prove itself to be sacred and divine. Just look back and see how it has sprung up in the land. there was not one word published in condemnation of slavery; and when <illegible> voice was raised, instantly the State of Georgia offered a reward of five thousand dollars for the head of our friend Mr. Garrison, who had dared to say that a sin before God. States individuals, parties, all rose up against this declaration, and tried to crush it, to silence it, to put it down. I know it was so, for I can speak from my humble personal experience. I tried in all sorts of ways to evade the coming obligation to speak out, and respond to that noble voice of Freedom and of Hope; but the Truth was altogether too strong for me; it would not be put down; it would not be put off. I hoped that when I had spoken once, I might be relieved forever after. It is in vain for any man to tell me that truth is not mighty; I know better; I have had experience of it in my own soul. (Applause.) Not only has its power been illustrated in the case of individuals, but how imposingly in the case of organizations, and of parties, and of public men! Ecclesiastical organizations have split in two; churches have been broken up; great men in the land have set themselves against it, and it has blasted their ambition, and sent them, broken-hearted, to the grave; and it is now engaged in its last great political work of breaking up the Democratic party, when there will be a clear field, unless, as our friend Mr. Pillsbury fears the Republican party should take the place the Democratic.
All these things show that the sentiment which is the soul of this movement is of God; that it is planted by Him, the Tree of Life, in the center of this garden of His creation, whose leaves are for the healing of the nations, and whose fruit gives sustenance to gods and men. (Loud applause.)
WENDELL PHILL PS then look the platform, amid loud cheering. He said he desired to add two resolutions to the series that had already been read, as follows:
Resolved, That, in our opinion, the anti-slavery sentiment is arousing to a keener life every day, every day growing more imperative and clear-sighted; and while the politician pretends to bow to it, in reality seeking only to use it for his own purpose, and the Church is groping her way from indifference and <illegible> into seeming life, our duty is to watch both politician and priest, see that no testimony be lowered, no duty evaded, no opportunity lost, that this anti-slavery purpose be not diverted one hour from demanding the immediate dissolution of the American Union, as the only means of securing the immediate emancipation of the slave.
Resolved, That, however we may be forbidden to encourage the slaves to rise, some of us by principle, and all here by the American Society's Constitution, and however we may differ as to whether insurrection be expedient or inexpedient, we are agreed in our sympathy with the wronged in such a case, and have no sympathy with any attempt of the slave-holder to continue, by bloodshed, the wrong he began in bloodshed; and we do solemnly entreat and adjure the free to avoid the damning guilt of siding the op in case of insurrection, and do unite, as a Society, in branding the man, the party, the church, that is thus guilty, as anti-Republican, anti-Christian and inhuman.
Mr. Phillips then proceeded to address the undefence, speaking in a strain of even more than his <illegible> eloquence and power. We regret that his imperative prohibition prevents our publishing his speech.
The Society at half-past <illegible> o'clock, P. M., for the transaction of business.
TUESDAY AFTERNOON.-A business meeting of the Society was held at the Committee-room adjoining the City Assembly Rooms, at 3 1-2 o'clock, the President of the Society being in the chair.
The published Report of the Executive Committee, for the years ending May, 1857, and May, 1857 and distributed among the members of the Society.
AARON M. POWELL, of Ghent, and SAMUEL MAY, JR., of Boston, were appointed Secretaries <illegible> the annual meeting.
OLIVER JOHNSON brought before the meeting the subject of the Society's organ, the Standard, and the question as to the best way of extending its On this subject, the following persons JOHNSON, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, ANDREW T.FOSS PARKER PILLSBURY, J. MILLER MCKIM, AARON M. POWELL, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., WM. LLOYD GARRISON, REV. GEORGE TRASK, THEODORE TILTON. The discussion was of great interest, the testimonies to the great value of the Standard were unanimous, and <illegible> methods of increasing its circulation were suggested and considered.
The Chair, according to vote of the Committees on Business, on Nomination of and on Finance, as follows:
Committee on Business-Wendell Phillips, Lacerates Mott, J. Miller McKim, Francis Jackson, Charles C Burleigh, Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Charles C. Lenox Remond, Oliver Johnson, Antoinette Brown Blackwell.
Committee to Edmund Quincy, Edward M. Davis, Joseph Post, Robert Purvis, Joseph Carpenter, Lydia Mott, Pliny Sexton, Andrew T. Foss, Clark Greenman, Adeline H. Howland.
Committee on New York; Susan B. Anthony, Rochester; Lydia Mott, Albany; Aaron M. Powell, Ghent; Joseph A. Howland, Worcester.
Mr. GARRISON spoke of the work most needing now to be done by the Society-which work, he said, was with the Northern States, not with the Southern He instanced several points where this work is greatly demanded.
ANDREW T. Foss responded cordially to the views and suggestions of Mr. Garrison. AARON M. POWELL took the same view. All these speakers advocated active and energetic measures all the Northern States for the enactment of laws prohibiting slave hunting and catching-for the abolition of all laws proscribing the colored population, subjecting them to any special burden, or depriving them, or their children, of any of their rights, in regard to schools, the elective franchise, &c., &c.
WENDELL PHILLIPS thought that if the right man could be found to take in charge an increased circulation of the Standard, a man experienced in such business, the means to sustain him could be found.
CHARLES L. REMOND advised to have one or more special additional agents appointed to work in our principal cities. He alluded to the proscriptive rules towards the colored people prevailing in the <illegible> and avenue cars of this city generally, and thought that a special agency might very properly be instituted to convert the city of New York to common humanity and decency on the subject.
Adjourned to 7 1-2 o'clock.
EVENING SESSION.-The President called the Convention to order at 7 1-2 o'clock. The audience, considering the extreme inclemency of the weather, was large, and the attention and manifest interest encouraging.
SPEECH OF REV. A. M. MILLIGAN.
Rev. A. M. MILLIGAN, of the Covenanted Church, Pennsylvania, was the first speaker. He said: 
MR. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS OF THE SLAVE: I come before you this evening, to cast my mite in aid of the cause of Liberty and Humanity. This is not a mere political gathering, not a mere squabble for the
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
emoluments of office; if it were, I had not been on this platform to-night. The cause for which we have come together is not merely a cause affecting the rights and liberties of four millions of colored people, but affecting the rights and liberties of twenty millions of white men, composing this great nation, and affecting the destiny of the untold millions who are hereafter to people this great, new country. While one man wears a chain, no man can be entirely free. This fact of the enslavement of a portion of our citizens is already making its mark very sensibly upon the masses of the inhabitants of this country, as is manifest in the imprisonment, in the 'City of Brotherly Love,' in the dungeons of Moyamensing, of an individual of pure white extraction, for having declared, to one of those who had none to plead her rights, that by the laws-of Pennsylvania she was free; in the fact that around the Court-house in the city of Boston chains are drawn, and ruthless hands drag back to bondage, from a reluctant people, a man who had cast off his fetters, and sought refuge and protection beneath, the shadow of Bunker Hill; in the fact of the trial of twenty most respectable citizens of Ohio for having snatched from the hands of the kidnapper a man who, by his own noble achievements, had earned for himself freedom; in the outrages in Kansas, and in the fact that if an anti-slavery man preaches 'deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the prison doors to them that are bound,' within the southern limits of this professed free Republic, he must do it at the risk of his life.
The struggle which is now going on, the agitation which exists in our country, is not the work of a few fanatical men; it is the outgoing of a great principle; it is the life-struggle of a great truth, whose birth was in eternity, and the womb of whose conception was the bosom of the Eternal. The sound which we hear is the deep rumbling of the volcanic fires enkindled in the great heart of the community. The principles of this great struggle underlie all the relations of man to his fellow-man, and the creature to his Creator. It is a fact that he who strikes at the subject, invades the sovereignty of the sovereign; that he who attacks the sovereign assails all his subjects. There is a bond of connection between those in authority and those under authority, that identifies them, so that he who touches one of them touches the apple of the eye of him who rules over them; and hence those who assail the rights of the feeblest citizen strike at the very foundation of government; and he who touches one of those who are Christ's subjects, touches the apple of His eye; and hence they not only levy war upon humanity, but also upon God, as He is the Sovereign of the universe, as He is the Creator of man, and it is by Him that man is endowed with those noble and inalienable rights which He is bound to support. This principle is very clearly, and in language almost inspired, presented in the great Declaration of this nation's independence. It is there declared that man is endowed with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness'; that those rights are not only privileges belonging to man, but that they are privileges conferred upon him by that Being who created him; that they are birth-right privileges, guaranteed to him by his Creator, and that he is to be defended in their enjoyment by Him who has given him those rights. This principle is also very clearly and fully expressed in the whole Word of God. The first great commandment is, 'Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, and with all thy mind'; and the second is like unto it, namely, this-'Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Upon those two commandments hang all the law and the prophets' That is the declaration of Him who spoke through those inspired prophets: that is the declaration of Him who gave that law; and we must come to one or the other of two conclusions, either that the Word of God is inconsistent with itself, and a tissue of fictions, or that the whole Word of God is inconsistent with those two commandments which require man to love his neighbor  as himself, and to honor and serve his God. Hence the question which is properly before those who are vindicating the right of the slave is two-fold, and yet really but one. It is a question which respects the rights of God in the first place, and the rights of man in the second place. The great moral arch cannot be invaded in one of its parts without marring and destroying the whole.
The early settlers of this country were heirs to the great principles of liberty, civil and religious. In the early history of the colonies, when met together in solemn assembly, they considered the documents prepared by the great Westminster Assembly, and declared that, with very few exceptions, they endorsed and adopted them; and that without any exception, they endorsed and adopted the solemn League and Covenant of England, Scotland and Ireland. Hence we find, in their Declaration of Independence, the great principle stated at the outset, that man derives his rights from God, and we find the colonists, when engaged in their struggle for independence, placing their reliance upon the God of battles in the maintenance of their liberties. The character, however, of this nation very early underwent a change. That people who had hurled down the gauntlet of defiance at the feet of the tyrants of the world-that people who had called upon their colored brethren to aid them in their struggle for liberty, with the promise that they should be sharers in the Soon-that people very soon forgot their indebtedness to God, and their indebtedness to those who had shed their blood as freely as they had shed theirs in defence of the liberties of the country; and only twelve years later, they changed very materially their government, which had been established in dependence upon God, and ascribing honor to His name. That was the age when infidelity was prevalent in France, and from France had found its way to this country, which had been aided by France in achieving its liberties. The nation had attained a name and position among the people of the earth; they began to anticipate for themselves great things; they began to dream of a great and powerful government, that should gather in all the nations of the earth, and, in order that they might make a platform on which the Mahommedan, the Pagan, the Jew, the slaveholder, and all, of whatever character, might stand, they entered into a compact, they framed an instrument from which not only is the name of God and the name of the Son of God omitted, but the law of God was dishonored and degraded from its high place as the supreme rule of man's conduct, and another code substituted in its place, which is in direct conflict with that eternal law of the Eternal Lawgiver. The rights of God are respected and the rights of man guaranteed in the Declaration of Independence; the rights of man, and the rights of God, in the Constitution, are equally withheld. And hence, while we are carrying on this battle, while we are waging this war upon the stronghold of the enemy, it becomes us to remember all the points of assault, and, in an especial manner, all the help upon which we may properly expect to lean; and while we are calling upon man to rouse himself, and exert the faculties which God has give him, and to defend se privileges which God has guaranteed to him, let us call upon God to rouse himself in his might, for His foes are raging, and come to the rescue of His own prerogatives and the rescue of His own subjects.
The Word of God is a sword. It is a weapon that has been mighty, through God, to the pulling down of the strong holds of sin and Satan, but that weapon, like all the weapons of the Christian's warfare, is mighty peculiarly through God, and, as the apostle directs, should be used with all prayer and supplication. The Word of God is a power, but that power is only felt in all its potency when it is applied by the Spirit which indicted the Scriptures; and hence it becomes us, when engaging in this conflict, to take up our arms in God's name, to fight the battles of the Lord while we are fighting the battles of the people, and depend upon Him who alone can give
<c02>
success and effect to the cause in which we are engaged.
That there was a revolution in the sentiments of this nation, that that revolution was manifested and clearly displayed in that instrument which is the bond of our nation's compact, is evident from the fact that, from the adoption of that instrument, the course of the country has been materially changed. Up to that day, slavery in many of the States was dying out; from that day, slavery has increased in strength, until it has become a power in the government, and by that power it has gone forward with giant strides, aiming at and vigorously aspiring to a universal supremacy in the land. In that Constitution, there is a compact between the several States, by which they are not only bound together in general terms mutually to aid and sustain each other, in which they not only guarantee to each other certain rights and privileges, but a compact in which there is a distinct stipulation giving to the slaveholder political power in proportion to the number of human beings which he holds in bondage. In it there is a guarantee given by every State of the Union that they will return to his servitude the flying fugitive from bondage; that they will suppress domestic insurrections; that they will resist foreign invasions; and that they will protect from domestic violence those who stand with their feet upon the necks of their bondmen. In this compact, then, there is, distinctly and manifestly, a pledge of all the States in this great Union to hold the slave in bondage, so long as his master chooses to claim the guarantee given to him by that compact. To this compact, every officer of the government must bind his soul in a solemn vow ere he can enter upon his office; to this compact, every foreigner must declare his allegiance before he can be admitted to citizenship; and to this compact, every native-born citizen must lend his influence, and, through his representative, give his oath-bound pledge, ere he can enjoy the God-given right of the elective franchise; thus securing to the slaveholders not only the pledge of the States, not only the pledge of the officers of government, Federal and State, but the pledge of every citizen who chooses to avail himself of the rights of citizenship, and take part in the formation of the laws under which he is to live; and so every citizen is, by this iniquitous scheme, bound to the support of the atrocious system of slavery, and is himself a slave.
Mr. Milligan then reviewed the progress of the Anti-Slavery movement from its inception up to the present hour, and said that in view of the wonderful change in public sentiment upon this question, the friends of the slave had cause to thank God and take courage. He had so large a charity upon this subject, or perhaps was so anxious to count friends' to this cause, that he was willing to extend a welcome and a word of cheer to all who had undertaken, in whatever form, the advocacy of this great principle, and who were found, at whatever stage of progress, laboring for this great truth. An army did not consist all of generals, or of riflemen, or of cavalry, but each, in its place, under proper leaders, was capable of doing good execution; so, in this great warfare, they had need of all kinds of soldiers. He had no doubt that the platform on which he stood was the honored platform of this great principle; that it was, at least, one of the witnesses in this great cause, one of the standard-bearers in this great army; and he believed that, from the testimony offered here, the other advocates of the rights of the slave and the cause of humanity had borrowed their thunder, and learned their alphabet. (Applause.) But he desired to enumerate among the friends of the cause not only the great American Anti-Slavery Society-great, not so much, perhaps, in its numbers, as great in its principles, and great in its integrity and unflinching zeal in the cause-but to place side by side with that Society another body, perhaps more obscure, but not less zealous, in some respects, in this great cause, with which he had the honor to be identified, and also that great party, which, although it had forgotten, to a great extent, the object for which it was started, had yet done much to enlighten the community on this subject, and reached a class of minds that could not be reached from that platform. While he charged every individual who swore to support the iniquitous Constitution of the United States with being particeps criminis in the crime of slavery, there was, nevertheless, in their action, a gain to the great cause. So also of the churches. Some churches had taken steps in the right direction, feeble though they might be, and he was willing to give them credit for it, although they were not willing to cut loose from the ecclesiastical organization and from the Constitution.
The Abolitionists had to thank the slave-owners for doing the greater part of the work that had been accomplished; for he saw, in the repeated acts of aggression of the Slave Power, the hand of God, causing the slaveholder himself to break the chain and unbind the yoke with which he had been oppressing his victim. When he looked back, and saw the progress that had been made, and saw, on every hand, new friends of the cause springing up, he felt that they had reason to thank God and take courage-to 'set up an Ebenezer, and say, Hitherto the Lord hath helped us.'
In looking forward to the future of this struggle, said Mr. M., there can be, in the mind of every thinking man, no hesitation or doubt as to the actual result. If a cause be of God, you cannot overturn it; and if any cause ever demonstrated itself to be the cause of God, this cause has so demonstrated itself. In looking at the struggle in which we are engaged, I admit that only one feature has been prominently brought forward. I admit that our attention has been directed mainly, if not entirely, to the influence of this institution, and to the influence of this government, upon the rights of man; but, at the same time, when its end shall have been accomplished, when the 'good time coming,' which we have been expecting, shall have fully come, there will be so plain and potent a manifestation of the operation of God in the work, that men will see and acknowledge His hand, and say, 'God has done great things for us; 'so that that feature, which has not been prominently brought forward in the beginning, will be the great and crowning triumph in the end. (Applause.)
Mr. M. then alluded to the struggle for liberty which seems to be close at hand in the old world, and inquired if the children of revolutionary patriots in this land should allow their liberties to be trampled upon, and allow four millions of the brotherhood of man to be crushed beneath the weight of a most unrelenting and accursed bondage, and remain supinely on their backs without moving in the great struggle. He would ask if the aggressions of the Slave Power had not been sufficiently grievous and oppressive? Did it need that any more of their citizens should be imprisoned?'-should they wait until any more blood be spilt ?-or should they imitate the example of their noble forefathers, and enter into the struggle? It was not necessary that they should take up the sword, for the North had only to speak out, and give expression to her moral sentiment, and the destruction of slavery was accomplished. He called upon every true hearted American to rise for his country. He called upon every Christian, every lover of his God, to strike for His altar. He called upon every friend of free speech, a free press, and a free pulpit, and a free religion, to give utterance to a voice of protest that shall, make the tyrant tremble in his seat, and make the chains to fall from the shackled and the oppressed. (Loud applause.)
In conclusion, Mr. Milligan said-My last word is, I thank the Executive Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society for giving me the opportunity of uttering my thought upon this free platform. I feel that they have conferred upon me a very high honor. I feel that this platform is an historical one. I feel that the
<c03>
men who are acting here to-day are enacting history, and I leave it to posterity to write that history and seal the record. And while <illegible> of Divinity are shaking their heads, while faint-hearted friends are expressing their fears, I call upon community to give it to the winds, to photograph it upon the canopy of heaven, to take a pen of iron, with the point of a diamond, and write it upon the rocks forever, that a member of the Old School Covenanter Church -a class of people who are known to have a spinal column, a back-bone, that will not bend to flattery nor bow to power-has stood upon their platform, has given his assent to their testimony against the black institution of this land, against the Constitution, which has given it strength and vitality, against the administration of the government that has gone beyond the Constitution to impose this sin upon the Territories, against the Churches which have given it their sanction and their plaudits, and against all those who are in any way concerned in holding millions of their fellow-men in bondage. (Applause.)
Mr. GARRISON-The Anti-Slavery platform affords the largest liberty of expression on the part of every one standing upon it. Our respected friend, Mr. Milligan, has given us the view of the constitutional compact as it has always been understood and interpreted by this nation, binding North and South together in one bond, whereby slavery is made possible, and its perpetuation as sure as anything can be. Our friend, Judge Culver, who is to follow him, I understand may give us a different view of the question, as it lies in his own mind, so that we shall have both sides of the constitutional question presented. But I will not anticipate: 'he is of age, and can speak for himself.'

SPEECH OF HON. E. D. CULVER.
Judge CULVER was greeted with hearty applause as he took the platform. He said:
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: Herein is your liberality commended beyond any Society that holds its anniversary the present week in this city, that you have invited to your platform one who has never been identified with you in your mode of action. Nay, more, you have invited one who has long been known as identified with another organization, operating in a different field of labor; one who has performed service, for twenty long years, in the Whig party, officiated at its birth, and performed funeral ceremonies at its death (laughter and applause); and one who has lately been identified with another organization, sometimes termed the 'Black Republican.' (Renewed applause.)
Now, friends, I was urgently invited to attend another meeting this evening; but I felt that it was due to you, who, knowing my position as a public 'man, had invited me, as a public man, upon this platform, to come here. I preferred to do it, as I had never had the pleasure of addressing an audience gathered under the auspices of this Society before. Seven years ago, I undertook to do so, but, somehow or other, they mistook me for one of you, and clattered me down. (Laughter.) But times have changed; and now, if a third of a century, almost, of hard labor, consistent labor, to say the least, entitles a man to be known as a consistent man, I may lay claim to that title. Although I have not acted with you, I have had my eye upon the same object. I have honored you that you dared, under all circumstances, in all places, to avow your sentiments, just as you believed them. I felt, when I listened to what was called a Garrisonian Abolitionist, just as we used to feel in Congress. We would sit and hear John C. Calhoun, and differ from him in almost every line he uttered; but we were satisfied that he said what he thought. That is the difference. We love to hear men who we think believe what they say, and say what they believe.
Now, as I suppose I am limited to thirty minutes, I have a few words to offer, not directly in the attitude that was suggested by the worthy chairman, but to present a few scattered thoughts upon that vast question which seems to trouble me more, perhaps, than it does most of you-I mean the judicial aspect of the slavery question. You understand perfectly well, friends, that there have been some monstrous strides taken, during the last four or five years, in this matter. Now, on this constitutional question, there is what I call the new view and the old view, and I want to say a word upon each one of these.
You understand what the new view is. We have had it announced by high authority, that there seem to have been just two paramount objects in view at the formation of the Constitution: one was to make a market for cotton, and the other to catch 'niggers.' It has been announced from the Executive chair, that there is in the Constitution something that takes slavery wherever it goes, by its own strength ; and that when the Constitution goes to a Territory, slavery goes with it, until interdicted by positive State law. And hence you remember the Chief Executive of these United States declared that Kansas was as much a slave State or Territory as South Carolina: and the reason assigned was because the Constitution sanctioned and guaranteed property in slaves. Now, that was followed up very close, and probably uttered in the same connection with that remarkable decision, called the Dred Scott decision; and if you will run your eye over that decision, you will see that five, at least, out of the nine judges, put it upon the ground that the Constitution recognized property in slaves, and guaranteed the right to hold slaves; that slavery went where the Constitution went; and they take the astounding ground-astounding to the people of the United States-that neither Congress nor yet the people of a Territory can intervene in behalf of freedom, and prohibit the introduction of slavery, That is the new view of this question; and, in harmony with that, see what has been done. And, friends, let me say that in Ohio, in Massachusetts, men can be tried, convicted and condemned for doing a Christian act. In South Carolina and Georgia, they cannot be convicted of piracy itself. (Sensation.) How is the law expounded in those States? It is said that the jury may take the law and the facts in their own hands. The lawyers get up, and gravely argue that the law against the slave trade is an unconstitutional law, and that it is for the jury to decide upon the law as well as the facts. The jury understand it well; they take the hint quickly, they pronounce it unconstitutional, and declare that it is right to get slaves from Africa. But in Ohio and Massachusetts, altogether another view is presented-that the Judge gives the law, not the jury; and hence the man who performs a Christian act of nobleness, benevolence, charity, and kindness can be convicted, because the law is given to the jury, and they will take the law as given to them, by the Court. I allude to this to show just one thing-the tone and tendency of things in our country now, under the present judicial aspect of this question of slavery.
Then there is another great question involved in this matter-the Lemmon slave case. Let me stop for a moment to tell you how that case originated, for I had a personal connection with that matter. It is now nearly six years since, one day, news came suddenly to my office that there were eight slaves down in a Dutch grocery near the Battery, who, the next day, were to be exported to Texas. There was no time to be lost, and our fingers flew nimbly, I assure you. We obtained a writ of habeas corpus, and I took an officer and went down to the place. As we opened the door, we saw two colored women and three or four children. They were badly frightened. My officer was a brute-a Democratic constable (laughter) -and he went up and said to them, 'D-n you, get up! What are you doing here?' I saw they, were terrified, and I told him, if he spoke another word to one of those women, I would send him off and get another officer. I went round to one of the women and said, 'Nancy, don't you be afraid; we are your friends; we are going to take you to the city Hall, and give you your freedom. 'I shall never forget the look of that woman while I live on this earth (loud
<c04>
applause.) She got up, and took her youngest child in her arms, and the others followed. She straightened up straight as a Connecticut rolling-pin (laughter), and walked right up to the City Hall. There we tusselled the question fifty-six hours, and then they were declared free. We had a carriage at the door; they were pat into it, and were soon beyond the reach of the slave-hunters. (Applause.) Well, the State of Virginia felt that her dignity had been insulted and she raised five thousand dollars to pay Jonathan Lemmon, and then, in addition, appealed from the decision of the court. We succeeded before the general term, with a full bench, and shall succeed before the Court of Appeals; but we shall fail when the case goes before the Supreme Court of the United States. They have told us in advance what they mean to do in the Lemmon case. They are anxious to get it, and dispose of it. The principle involved is precisely this: that the State of New York, having made a law providing that persons brought into the State, for the purpose of being taken out it as slaves, shall, by virtue of that fact, be made free, she has acted unconstitutionally, and has no right to pass such a law. We must understand that State rights do not mean now what they used to mean. I speak of it as showing the tendency downward, all the way through.
But is there not another view of the question? Is there not something to be said in favor of the Constitution? And you will allow me to say as many good things as I can of it-not to defend it as a whole, because it needs patching in certain places, I admit. (Applause)., Were these the only objects for which the Constitution was framed, to sell cotton and catch 'niggers'? If that instrument did read, as Buchanan and Judge Taney would have us believe, that, 'in order to extend the blessings of slavery and catch negroes that are running away, we ordain and establish this Constitution,' I should sit down speechless, and admit that you had the argument on your side. But, thanks to the noble men who framed that instrument, there are some other objects declared. It is due to them to say that they have taken fresh draughts from the fountain of liberty, and they would not admit the word 'slavery' or 'slaveholder' into the Constitution.
Now, let us see if the Constitution does not declare objects a little better than those proclaimed by Judge Taney. 'In order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, we ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. 'In harmony with that, look and see what the Constitution says, and see whether you can find anything in it that would afford any substantial prop to slavery. On the other hand, is there not a great deal in it in favor of liberty, and, incidentally, do you not find evidence that its founders intended that it should operate in favor of freedom and not slavery? You find that one man who took a prominent part in the formation of that Constitution, in 1784 brought in a bill to sweep slavery out of every inch of territory then owned by the United States, which failed  at that time, but was revived, in 1787, and carried through, and all the North-West territories made free. Now, when it is affirmed that neither Congress nor the people can intervene to restrict slavery, where is the authority? When the government first started, how did the men who administered it understand the power of Congress in this matter? There were sixteen acts of Congress, approved by nine consecutive Presidents, eight of them slaveholders, by which Congress undertook to legislate upon, restrict, modify, and in many cases absolutely interdict, the very existence of slavery in the Territories. Now, tell me, with all that weight of authority on the other side, what you think of the doctrine of James Buchanan and the entire democratic party?
Let me look one moment further at this argument, that slavery is recognized by the Constitution-that is, recognized in the sense to sanction, support and guarantee-for that is Mr. Buchanan's argument. Now, does the Constitution establish or guarantee the right of property in slaves? Is the guarantee there? If it is, where? when? how? Judge Taney says there are but two places in the Constitution where slavery is alluded to. There are but three in it that, by implication or inference, embrace the subject, directly, of slavery. Look at them:-
'The migration or importation of such persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit shall not be prohibited by Congress prior to the year 1808, but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each person.'
Now, mark! 'The migration or importation of such persons.' Did we not need a law something like that, that the Stales should not be laying a tax upon Turks or Jews brought in here? The importation or emigration of 'such persons,' whether they came from Turkey, or Holland, or France, or Germany, or Spain, or from Africa or Asia, was not to be prohibited previous to a certain year. Tell me the fathers meant to put in there what is assumed to be there by James Buchanan and Judge Taney!
Now look at the other:
'No person held to service or labor in any State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.'
Give me a Judge on the bench who will put a proper definition on the term 'due,' and I am sure the devil will get his 'due' very quick! (Laughter and applause.) What is there in that clause that recognizes property in slaves? Did we not want a clause in the Constitution in just those very words? Was there not a man in the Convention who wanted to introduce the word 'servitude,' and did they not refuse to make the change? Was there not need for such a clause, so that if an apprentice, bound to a man in Connecticut, runs away to New Jersey, and the master comes after him from Connecticut to New Jersey, he cannot be discharged, but may be 'delivered up'? If my son, not yet twenty-one years old, runs away from me, and I want to reclaim him, I can go after him, and take him home. He owes me 'service or labor'; and so with the-indented apprentice. I admit that, under that clause, the judiciary says that the slave escaping from his master may be reclaimed and taken back; not because he is property, but because he is a 'person.' But that is a judicial interpretation.
Now, these two clauses were wanted. There is nothing in them that-implies the idea of property in slaves. Is there any thing in them that allows the existence of slavery, even?
There is a third clause, and the only other one-namely, that relating to the ratio of representation. In fixing the ratio of representation, that ratio is to be determined by taking the 'whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed,' and then adding' three-fifths of all other persons.' That word 'other, 'I admit, by a fair construction, implies that there are some persons in the country not 'free persons,' not Indians untaxed, not persons bound to service. It implies the bare existence of such a state of things. Is there any sanction of it? Can it be claimed that there is such a recognition as makes a guarantee of the thing? I utterly deny it. Let us see what it does prove. Does it not simply say this: that a locality that, has any such persons, besides free persons, Indians not taxed, and persons bound to service, shall lose two-fifths of the representation to which they would otherwise be entitled? Is that an endorsement of the system? It is an endorsement by a blow 'over the left.' It is a thrust at it it-is a penalty. I would as soon say that the Bible takes polygamy with it wherever it goes, because it recognizes its existence, as to say that that Constitution 
<c05>
carries slavery with it wherever it goes. The Bible shows the fact of the existence of polygamy, and its writers were recording facts, not writing out morals, at that early day. When, you turn to the New Testament, you find that Paul says of a bishop, that he must be the husband of one woman. Is not that an intimation that a man who is not a bishop may have more than one wife? Brigham Young says 'Yes,' I say, 'No-he was describing a qualification.'
Slavery recognized by the Constitution, because in one place it simply admits an existing fact, and cuts it off with a three-fifths representation! I remember an anecdote of a man who, on his return from Paris, told his friends that the Emperor Napoleon had recognized him in the street. 'How did he recognize you? 'He told me to stand aside, or he would kick me out of the way.' (Laughter.) He did recognize him. You might as well tell me that your City Council cannot pass a law interfering with a man's right to property in dogs, because the Legislature of the State have recognized property in dogs, as to say that the Legislature cannot interfere with slavery, because the Constitution recognizes its existence. Your State law is to your City Council what the Constitution is to the Legislature. But how does the Legislature recognize property in dogs? Simply by declaring that when a man owns two dogs, he shall pay a tax upon one of them! (Laughter.) But I deny that there is a guarantee of the right of property in dogs, so that the City Council cannot interfere with them. No man will contend that there is.
Now, what do we want, most of all? We want some honest Judges. I can fancy in my mind men sitting on that bench who would dispose of slavery in short order. If we could call Judge Mansfield there as Chief Justice, and place the venerable John Jay on his right, and that devoted friend of humanity, lately deceased, William Jay, of Westchester, upon his left, and then have an Attorney-General like Charles Sumner, of Massachusetts (applause), or that noble philanthropist, Alvin Stewart, do you not think they would find a way of settling this matter? They have made me a Judge over in Brooklyn, and one night a man was brought before me in chains, who, in three days, was to be sent back to South Carolina. We did not do any thing contrary to law. The papers were made out pretty quick, to be sure, but they were all right; and before the morning sun streaked the east, he was travelling towards Montreal, where he arrived in safety, and is doing well. (Applause.)
You see things about that Constitution that you would like to have changed, or a new Constitution entirely. I wish to see the experiment tried, and, with the success of the Republican party, I hope to see it. (Applause.) In 1852, the Whig party deceased, because the last vestige of anti-slavery went out of that party, and its day of doom had come. Do not talk now about who that party should have nominated, in order to have been successful in that election; its day of doom had come; and I fancy that whoever the Democratic party shall nominate in 1860, its day has come. Give me an administration with its great leaders in favor of humanity, give me a Court that shall lean to the principles of the early days, and I think I can see a way whereby slavery may become a poor, weak, gaunt ghost in a short time.
Now, friends, we must admit that Mr. Giddings expressed a great deal of truth about you, when he said, 'Let these women have a hearing, for they are the ones who generate the steam that drives the anti-slavery car'; but let me say, kindly, do not press too hard against Dr. Cheever; stand by him; he has taken a bold step in the right direction. Do not waste too much of your strength upon Henry Ward Beecher. If he does not appear upon your platform, you know what his heart is, and you know how many thousands of ears he gets access to that you do not. (Applause.) Do not be too severe upon the Republican party. You are the friends of the colored man. When we touch the great question of the wrongs and outrages of the negro race (I have felt it often in my public addresses), there are certain classes of men who will turn up their noses, so that our politicians have to march with muffled drums when they touch upon that subject. It does me good to come into an organization where people dare to speak right out for the colored man. God knows my heart bleeds for him when I see what is done in other States against this poor and despised race-oppressed here, cast out there, shut out from all the avenues of business, and deprived of every motive to endeavor. I honor you for being the consistent friends of the colored race. Go on, friends, in your noble work, and God be with you and speed you in the right! (Loud applause.)
(Continued next week.)

KIDNAPPING IN THE HARBOR OF HYANNIS!
A FUGITIVE SLAVE RETURNED TO FLORIDA. The Hyannis Messenger says that the brig Roleson, Capt. Orlando, came into that port on Sunday, the 8th inst., with a fugitive slave aboard. The slave had secreted himself on board the brig at Pensacola, and did not show himself until the vessel had been several days out, when he was forced to do so by hunger. The brig put into Hyannis with the man in irons, for the purpose of telegraphing to the United States Marshal at Boston, to be in readiness to take charge of him on the arrival of the brig at that city. The schooner Elizabeth B., Capt. Bacon, then lying in port, was chartered for $500 to carry the slave to Norfolk, Va. Capt, Bacon agreed to have him sent thence to Pensacola. The schooner sailed accordingly on Monday morning last, before the facts became publicly known-the slave being chained to the capstan.
We learn that Captain Bacon, on his return, will probably have to respond to a charge of kidnapping.
Boston Journal.
MR.GARRISON: It would appear from the preceding article, that the Marshal of this district (Boston) was personally instrumental in sending back this slave, by hiring the schooner Elizabeth, Capt Bacon, and also probably by the removal of the slave to that vessel. Now, I would inquire, what law authorized the Marshal to take this course? Certainly, not the Fugitive Slave Law, bad as it is. This law requires that certain conditions should exist, and certain legal proceedings be had, before he is authorized to send the slave back to his master. In this case, none of these legal proceedings took place. But he, without the shadow of a right or of law for this purpose, acting not as an officer of the National government, (for this he had not the right to do under the circumstances of this case, but merely in his personal capacity,) arrested the slave, and sent him back again, to a state of Slavery. He was, therefore, clearly a kidnapper within the meaning of the Statute of Massachusetts upon this subject, and may be proceeded against as such. And I trust that the Vigilance Committee will see to it, that he be arrested and prosecuted as such. It is bad enough that the Marshal should do such dirty work, and conduct in such an infamous manner, when called upon to do so by virtue of his office. But when he volunteers to make himself a man-stealer and a pirate, outside of his office, it is time that he should be made to know that he cannot violate the laws of this State for such an infamous and inhuman purpose, with impunity. Let the poisoned malice be now commended to his own lips. JUSTICE.
MEETING OF 'FRIENDS OF PROGRESS.'
The Annual Meeting of the 'Friends of Human Progress' is called to meet at Waterloo, Seneca Co., New York, on Friday, June 3, and continue in session three days.
This body of Reformers have held several annual meetings of decided interest at the same place, and many of our ablest men and women have participated in their deliberations. All movements and subjects relating to human -rights and human improvement are freely discussed in a manly and uncompromising spirit
A cordial invitation is extended to all who love Freedom, Truth, and Humanity, to be present.
By order of the Committee of Arrangements.
<c06>
THE CONVENTION.
SPECIAL NOTICE. Our readers will observe by the notice in a preceding column, that a change has been made in the time of holding the session in the MUSIC HALL,-viz. that it will be held there on Wednesday evening, and not in the morning, as before announced. To obviate mistakes, we give the following particular notice:
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention will assemble on Wednesday morning, 25th inst., at 10 o'clock, at
MERCANTILE HALL,
in Summer street; and will re-assemble at half-past 2 o'clock, in the same place.
On Wednesday evening, at half-past 7 o'clock, it will assemble in the
MUSIC HALL,
in Winter street, which will be the principal meeting for addresses, when WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. T. W. HIGGINSON of Worcester, and others, are expected to speak.
The Convention will hold all its Thursday sessions at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing afternoon and evening.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for June, promptly makes its appearance, freighted as usual with interesting and spicy reading. We can find room, this week, only for its table of contents-reserving a more extended notice of it for another number:-
Shakespeare's Art; Mien-yaun; Joy-Month; A Trip to Cuba; Some Inedited Memorials of Smollett; Bloodroot; The Differential and Integral Calculus; Bulls and Bears; The Sphinx; A Chase with Prince Rupert; Spring; The Stereoscope and the Stereograph; Continuation of the Minister's Wooing; The Professor at the Breakfast-Table; Reviews and Literary Notices; Recent American Publications.
The popularity of this Magazine continues to increase, and its circulation is widening in every direction. Phillips, Sampson & Co., Publishers, Boston.
To CORRESPONDENTS. We very much regret that we are unable to find room, this week, for the communication from Rev. Henry T. Cheever, Secretary of the 'Christian Anti-Slavery -Society,' in reply to 'C. K. W.' in consequence of the entire occupancy of our inside pages with the proceedings of the anniversary-meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at New York-a portion of which proceedings we are obliged to defet till another number.
Will S. H. please inform us as to her post-office address?
GEORGETOWN, Mass.-CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak on American Slavery, on Sunday, May 29, at Georgetown. All are invited.
NORTH BRIDGE WATER.-PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at North Bridgewater, in the Universalist Church, on Sunday next, at 5 o'clock, P. M.
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING
OF
PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
THE SEVENTH PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS will assemble at LONGWOOD, (near Hamorton) Chester County, on FIRST DAY, the 29th of Fifth month, 1859, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue its sessions three or four days.
Joseph A. Dugdale, Alice Jackson,
Oliver Johnson, Simmons Coates,
Sidney Peirce Curtis, Sarah H. Hallock,
Elizabeth Jackson, Josiah Jackson,
Frank Darlington, Henry M. Smith,
Edward Webb, Henrietta W. Johnson,
Thomas Garrett, Mary P. Wilson,
Priscilla Gawthrop, Lydia E. Cox,
John G. Jackson, James T. Gawthrop,
Mary F. Smith, Rebecca Fussell,
William Barnard, Eliza Agnew,
COMMUNICATIONS for the Meeting may be addressed to JOSEPH A. DUGDALE, Hamorton, Chester Co., Pa., or to OLIVER JOHNSON, Anti-Slavery Office, New York.
LONGWOOD MEETING-HOUSE is one mile west of Hamorton, on the road leading to Kennett Square. Strangers are informed that a daily mail-coach runs to the latter place from Wilmington, Del., passing directly by the meeting-house. The distance from Wilmington to Longwood is 13 miles. Between Philadelphia and Wilmington there is a daily communication both by Railroad and Steamboat.
MARRIED-In Keokuk, Iowa, May 1st, Mr. MIFFLIN W. GIBBS, of Victoria, Vancouvers Island, to MARIA ANNE, daughter of Henry Alexander, of Maysville, Ky.
In Hamilton, (C. W.) May 6th, Mr. ISAAC N. CARY, of Toronto, to MART E. BIBB, of Windsor, C. W.
In Salem, Mass., May 5th, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON FRANCIS to Miss CAROLINE M. BROOKS.
DIED-In Salem, Mass., May 15th, LOUISA VICTORIA, daughter of Joseph H. and Caroline Remond Putnam, aged 9 months and 12 days.
THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great laboratory, has stored some remedy adapted to every disease which 'flesh is heir to.' But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a case of Dyspepsia cured was a rare experience in medical practice. Now, under the influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the rare exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afflicted:
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters.
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which he lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith:
WATERTOWN, N. Y., July 28, 1858.
S. W. FOWLE & Co., Boston: SIRS-Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fullness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pains in the stomach, often occasioning nausea, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden.
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible on my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing all like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy.
THEO. CALDWELL.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England.
March 25-4tis

ENTERTAINMENT OF THE DUTTON CHILDREN,
THE smallest girls of their age in the world, being 9 and 11 years old, and weighing only 13 and 15 pounds. They sing the following songs at each entertainment: 1. Gentle Annie. 2. Darling Nelly Gray. 3. Nancy Till. 4. Rosalie, the Prairie Flower. 5. Old Cabin Home. 6. The Hazell Dell. 7. Willie We Have Missed You. 8. The Mountain. Maid's Invitation. 9, O Come, Come away. 10. Wait for the Wagon. 11. What is Home without a Mother? and dance the Polka and Waltz. They will appear at Boston, Mercantile Hall, Monday evening, May 9, and every Afternoon and Evening, to May 21 inclusive, at 3 and 8 o'clock. Admission 25 cents; children 15 cents; children under 12 years of age, in the afternoon, 5 cents; children over. 12 years of age in the Afternoon, 10 cents; 5 tickets $1.
ALBERT NORTON, Manager.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS.
21 Cornhill. BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the liberator.
THE SLAVE.
At night, within a cabin low,
A slave lay brooding o'er his fate;
His heart was Sited with deepest woe,
For his sad suffering people's state.
He thought of all the tender ties
That once had bound his soul to life, 
Of the young wife whose mournful eyes
Had power to calm his spirit's strife.
He thought of her as far away,
Toiling beneath a sultry sun,
Without one hope; one cheering ray,
To soothe her when her task was done.
Wildly be tossed his arms in air,
And, springing from his filthy stall, •
He cursed the power that bound him there,
To live and toil and die a thrall
Out from his cabin down he strode,
Beneath the cold, unpitying sky.
Dark, bitter thoughts his spirit goad,
And fill his soul with agony.
Madly he smote his fevered brow-
Hear me, ye ever burning lights,
And thou, Oh, Earth! hear my firm row,
To gain my people's long-lost rights.
Hear me, O, Heaven! and grant me strength
To deal the vengeance long delayed.
And let the oppressor feel at length 
The Hand of Wrath cannot be stayed.
Yet how could he, a helpless slave.
Do battle with the mighty State?
Where could he find the power to save
His people from their wretched fate?
In thought profound, and lofty mood,
Upon the silent stars he gazed,
A noble type of man he stood,
With naked brow, and head upraised.
And while he pondered, lo! 'tis morn,
Wide o'er the hills the night spreads fast,
And loud resounds the driver's horn, 
A shrill, commanding, threat' ning blast.
With fearful power that sound accurst
Upon his startled senses broke, 
And, like an airy bubble burst,
His visions fled beneath the stroke.
He saw his utter helplessness,
Surrounded by his powerful foes, 
With none to heed his deep distress,
Or listen to his people's woes.
He saw his friends with brows of care
To their sad labors haste along,
And with a look of dark despair
He joined the weary, toil-worn throng.
Thus many a bleeding heart is crushed,
And many a noble spirit bowed,
And many a voice in silence hushed,
That might have swayed the listening crowd.
Great God! and shall it ever be?
Shall man forever thus abuse 
The power that's given him by Thee?
For purer, higher, nobler use?
Shall man forever trample down
Thy glorious image in the dust,
Yet bow in impious prayer, and own
That Thou art good, and great, and just?
Oh! quell in him the lust for gain,
And turn his sinful heart to Thee,
So shall he loose the captive's chain,
And let the oppress'd go free L. H. C.
Bedford, May 1, 1859.
For the Liberator.
SLAVES' PRAYER.
O God! look down and see
Outraged Humanity
'Neath the oppressor's rod?
Give ear, O God,
To the despairing cries
Which ever rise
From thy down-trodden sons,
And helpless ones,
Whose hope's alone in Thee.
Oh! set us free! 
Thou who proud Pharaoh's hosts
And scornful boasts
Didst whelm beneath the wave,
And Israel save
From their oppressor's powers,
In darkest hour,
Baring thy mighty arm.
To shield from harm 
The chosen of thy heart,
Take now our part.
Let us not always be
Ground down by Tyranny, 
Victims of giant wrong.
Thou know' st how long 
Our heavy load we're borne
Of grief and scorn, 
Our heavy load of shame;-
Our very name
A nation's idle jest,
While on us rest
A nation's fraud and force!
Without remorse 
They tread us in the dust.
Our hopes are crushed;
Yet our sad souls to Thee
Despairingly
Still turn, for ouly Thou
Canst help us now!
Let us not seek in vain
Thy help to gain.
Let not thy righteous ire
Rain down avenging fire Upon each tyrant's head!
Though we have bled, 
We ask not blood for blood!
Let not a flood
Destroy, as when of eld
Thine eye beheld
The world's increasing crime!
Spare for a time!
Alas! their cup is filled,
Their ruin willed.
Willed by their own proud hearts!
Thy, vengeful darts
Shall fall upon them. They
Who erst did prey
Upon us, soon shall feel.
Yea, sorely feel,
Thy chastisement, and we
Shall yet be free!
To Thee the glory be,
To Thee, to Thee!
A, GIBES CAMPEELL.,
DEVOTION.
As down in the sunless retreats of the ocean,
Sweet flower, are springing no mortal can see,
So still in my soul the deep prayer of devotion.
Unheard by the world, rises silent to thee.
as still to the star of its worship, though clouded,
The needle points faithfully o'er the dim sea,
so dark as I roam in this wintry would shrouded,
The hope of my spirit turns trembling to thee.
STERLING' ADVICE.
In silence mend what ill deforms thy mind;
But all thy good impart to all they kind.-J. Sterling.
<c02>
MISCELLANEOUS SELECTIONS.
From the Bangor Dally Whig and Courier, of April 39
THE MEETING. AT THE CITY HALL ON TUESDAY EVENING.
The adjourned meeting to hear the address of Wm. S. Bailey, Esq., of Newport, Kentucky, was called to order by the Chairman, H. E. Prentiss, Esq., and J. H Perkins, Esq., was appointed Se­cretary.
Messrs. A. G. Wakefield, George Kent and John S. Kimball were appointed a Committee to report resolutions expressive of the sense of the meeting.
The Chairman, after having stated, the object of the meeting in some felicitous remarks, introduced Mr. Bailey to the audience as a true and tried champion of freedom on slave soil.
The speaker proceeded to give an interesting and graphic account of the toils, sacrifices, and suffer­ings which he and his family had endured in their efforts to maintain the freedom of speech and of the press in Kentucky. His property and press had been burned. He had been assaulted by mob violence, his life threatened, and his character de­famed; he had been harassed by groundless suits at law, and by the combined and persistent efforts of the slave power to withdraw the patronage of the business community. As the result of it all he was in debt some three thousand dollars. He had come North to ask aid of the friends of freedom, to discharge that debt, and to purchase a new press.
He said be had maintained his ground against all opposition for nine years, and his paper was the only one now published in Newport, and the county had elected to all the offices save one, anti-slavery men.
His wife and children, of whom six were daugh­ters, were good type-setters, and his own family carried on nearly all the business of the office.
Rev. Mr. Battles said he would swing his hat for Mr. Bailey, his wife, and ten children! where­upon the chairman called for three cheers, which were given by the audience with right good will. Notwithstanding the. unfavorable weather, the hall was well filled. Subscriptions to Mr. Baileys paper, the Free South, and donations were received, and a committee appointed to wait upon our citi­zens generally to give them an opportunity to aid this free soil press in the South. The Committee on Resolutions reported the following, which were adopted.
H. E. PRENTISS, Chairman. 
J. H. Perkins, Secretary. RESOLUTION'S.
Resolved, That we recognize in Wm. S. Bailey, Esq., of Newport, Kentucky, an early and consistent friend of freedom, and of free institutions; that we honor him for his adherence to conscience and to duty, in contending manfully, as he has done, under many adverse circumstances, for the rights of all men, black or white; that we greet his newspaper, the Free South, established and maintained on slave soil, as a light shining in a dark place; and that we cordially welcome him within our borders as a true representative of the industrial interests of our common country.
Resolved, That we believe with our Southern brethren of the Revolution, as expressly declared in the preamble to certain resolutions in Georgia, and substantially in all other slaveholding colonies of the Confederacy, and as embodying the true spirit of '76, that ' Slavery is an unnatural practice, founded in injustice and cruelty, and highly danger­ous to our liberties as well as lives, debasing part of our fellow-creatures below men, and corrupting the virtue and morals of the rest.'
Resolved, That we believe with the eloquent mod­ern orator and patriot, Carl Schurz, of Wisconsin, that' The despotic spirit of slavery and mastership combined, pervades the whole political life of the South, like a liquid poison; that the system of slavery has subjugated all, master as well as slave; that you cannot deny one class of society the full measure of their natural rights without imposing re­straints upon your own liberty;' and that there­fore we hail with joy any systematic effort to en­lighten public opinion, and rightly to influence and direct public action, in the Southern section of our Union.
Resolved, That as slaveholders often say to us of the North, Why haven't you the manliness to come where slavery is, and not fight us meanly at a distance? Why agitate at the North, where slavery doesn't exist, when the South is your true field of labor?'-we rejoice to find that a hardy son of the, ‘Buckeye State has taken up the glove, and given, in a kind and considerate, but effective way, the desired battle oh Kentucky soil.
Resolved, That in view of the pecuniary sacrifices made by Mr. Bailey, in support of the cause of free thought, free speech, and a free press and free labor, we cheerfully commend him to the generous sympathy and kind consideration and action of all among us who are accustomed to 'devise liberal things,' and to do good and communicate' as others have need, and as they have the opportunity and ability.
Resolved, That as' faith without works is. dead, being alone,' we will 'show our faith by our works,' by proceeding to take up, in the manner the meet­ing may now determine, a collection or subscription (one or both) in aid of our friend, Mr. Bailey.
At the request of a number of ladies of our city, Mr. Bailey delivered a second address, at the City Hall, last evening, which was listened to by a good audience, and was highly interesting.
Persons who may wish to communicate with Mr. Bailey, who has so fearlessly bearded the monster Slavery in his den, will please address, 'William S. Bailey, Newport, Ky.'
One of the oldest and most highly esteemed merchants of this city, (says the Boston Transcript,) was recently introduced to the President of the United States, and that officer immediately inform­ed the gentleman that the people of Boston were a 'pugnacious set.' History tells of certain officials in a former age who entertained a similar opinion of the residents of Boston; but, in the lapse of time, the people of this 'village, 'jealous of their rights, and looking with contempt upon weak and wicked men in high stations, occupy a higher place in the annals of that period than those who scorned them. George the Third and Lord North were of the same opinion of Bostonians in 1775-76, that James Bu­chanan expressed in April, 1859.
From the New York Evening Post
THE OBERIN RESCUE.
Simeon Bushnell was convicted at Cleveland, Ohio, of the crime of aiding John, an alleged slave, to escape through. Ohio to Canada, and to regain his freedom.
Where is the charter freedom gave
To lands where speeds, Ohio's flood,
Which guarded from the foot of slave
The soil once wet with patriot blood?
"Was it for this our fathers bled,
And left their graves as patriot mounds-
From transatlantic masters fled,
Here trembling crouch, like whining hounds?
Is it a crime on freedom's soil
To aid the man who would be free?
Shall we denounce far distant spoil,
Ourselves hunt men to slavery?
Ye pilgrims to Old England's Tower,
Who freeze before the axe and wheel-
Rude relics how of brutal power- 
The dungeon, screw, judicial steel:
Go to your own proud prairie home,
Your home of boasted liberty!-
And, standing 'neath the heaven's broad dome,
See bloodier tools of tyranny.
The soulless judge, indictments, law,
Inventions framed .with cunning skill
Fax deadlier than the links which gnaw
And chafe the freeman's tameless will.
The plains that 'neath free armies shook
Are now the hunting-grounds for men;
Unchained the flowers, the wind, the brook-
There men are forced to slaves again.
Oh, men roll back this curted tide;
Assert the manhood God once gave;
Stand on free ground, its crown and nride;
be something more than Slavery’s slave!
All honor to that hero band!
Your thorny crown is rosy bright; 
With Hampden, Sydney, now ye stand,
Judicial martyrs to the right.
New York, April 28, 1859,
J.D.S
<c03>
Reported for the pennsylvania Inquirer.
INDIAN CIVILIZATION.
Remarks of Eli K. Price-Speech of an Indian Chief.
SPEECH OF ELI K. PRICE.
A public meeting, highly respectable in character and numbers, took place in the Hall of Pharmacy, on Thursday evening last. 
The Hon. Eli K. Price presided, and on taking the, chair, said he, had-called the meeting at the request of a Committee of an Association being now formed to aid the Indiana. I can best bring your minds to a consideration of what you will hear by a few introductory remarks. It is now more than two hundred years since white civilized men began their settlements in this country, and since they have been driving the Indians backwards, until now they are beyond the Mississippi; and we are driving; their hence towards the Rocky Mountains; and again from the Pacific coast they are driven eastwards; and by these proceedings it will not be long before they will have but the fastnesses of those mountains for their shelter and protection. 
All this has been done in the name and right of Christian civilization. It is by the right of discovery and settlement by Christian nations, that they assume the prerogative of au exclusive right to the land they seize and occupy, It is the only legal title that is recognized by all the Courts of the States and United States, and by which we hold all our houses and lands. In that right the first settlers fought and killed and drove back the Indians, without feeling any obligation to pay them for their lands, It was not until William Penn came here in 1682 with the charter of Charles II as his title for the whole Province, that a moral obligation was recognized to pay the Indians for the soil they should cede to white men. He paid them, 'and obtained their consent to yield what the colonists then needed. When the present national government was organized, George Washington as its first President, in 1790,by written conferences with the Indians, under seal of the United States, countersigned by Thomas Jefferson as Secretary of State, solemnly promised the Indians a just and paternal protection and that their lands should never be taken from them without just compensation made to them for the soil to be ceded to the government, and only to the government. That has been the theoretical policy of the government ever since, and our laws are generally wise and humane, as are also generally the officers of the government and the army of the United States.
Yet the white man has been too cunning in his dealings with the Indians. The Indian never had an adequate idea of the value of his lands or his peltries, and has ever sold both freely for blankets ,guns, gewgaws, tobacco and woven things, at high prices. As the white frontier has pressed upon them I they have receded, pressing upon Other tribes, and that pressure produced wars before as well as behind, which, with the worst vices of the white men, readily contracted in their simplicity, they have always been perishing between consuming fires.
This process we have supinely witnessed generation after generation, and we are now growing old, we are doing nothing to purge the nation or our hearts of a heavy and grievous national sin. We are distant, and the reports of these wrongs only reach us from a remote frontier. Yet are the outrages of robbery and murder, which are incessantly committed. perpetrated by our fellow-citizens, by our nation, I and we cannot, escape a responsibility for them. They cry to heaven for retribution, and we cannot I escape it.
But how to reach and mitigate the wrongs has been the difficulty. So distant, so helpless themselves, as we have believed, so beset with selfish and wicked men, whom no law, human or divine, can I control, we have concluded the task of aiding a vain and hopeless one. The humane have given but a barren sympathy, and good men and women have suffered through long lives a sense of sharing in a national sin, helpless to relieve the sufferer or their I own consciousness from a participation in guilt. 
I confess that I have thus suffered and thus despaired. But I have, within the past two days, had afforded to me a stronger evidence than ever before of an opportunity to do something for the relief and improvement of the Indians. The person whom I shall personally introduce to you will demonstrate in his own person, and in the information he will give, the capacity of the Indians to become settled cultivators of the soil, mechanics, good moral men, and Christians, and good citizens of the United States. Their capacity of mind we never doubted; but their fondness for hunting and pride of character we have believed made them averse to labor. Many of the tribes have become wiser, have become cultivators, and mechanics, and traders; have seen in this change the only chance of preservation as races of men.
The ends to be attained are their permanent location on their Indian reserves, their protection there from the intrusion of ruffian white men, their education in agriculture, in the mechanic arts, in the economy of social life, in literature, and in religion, as by actual good done to them their confidence and willingness can be won. By kindness and benefits felt, their hearts can be opened to convincement, and only thus. And thus trained and prepared they will become fitted for the individual ownership of their lands, holding their titles in the same right we do, under the patents of the United States. But they must be well prepared for this consummation that they may be secure against the temptations of the land speculators who covet their lands. Thus planted as the secure proprietors, by legal title of' the soil, they will become part and parcel of the American people, within the seething border of the ruffian frontiersmen, who will-be driven beyond them by the ever swelling tide of emigration and increasing population.
The person I now introduce to you, a chief man of the Ottawa tribe, in Kansas, will confirm to you what I have said, and the speaker who will follow will narrate the present outrages suffered on the Pacific coast.
SPEECH BY AN OTTOWA CHIEF.
The Indian Chief said-My friends: I am glad to see you, and glad of the opportunity of making some remarks to you myself. It is more interesting to you to hear remarks from a gifted orator, but I have come to tell you the truth, not to display oratory, jut to speak, of my own knowledge, what I know of the Indian; what he is by nature, as a real Indian. You have read of the Indian's wrongs; some of yon have been told how savage and cruel the Indians are. The newspapers tell you this, but don't tell you how we are exasperated to do wrong by the bad white people that settle near us, and take our hunting grounds. When the white man first came here, the English, French, and Spanish white people, they set the tribes against tribes. The white people wanted our lands and they did so. Oh! how many of the Indians have fallen by mean, low white people, who you would not have amongst you. They come to exterminate us. The bad white man swore he would kill redskin. Indians asking for peace have been cowardly murdered; weak women slain; our children's brains dashed out against trees, and their fathers shot down when rushing to the protection of their children. You say we are doomed to destruction before civilization, but you white people let us alone, we will live. The; Indians are as able to think as you. Capable of hatred; capable of gratitude; a spirit of revenge we have like other people; you know bad people well enough; the natural fruit of bad men amongst the Indians is to bring vice to us. Send us good people, and we will do right. A good white man in 1836 John Meet-ham, came amongst us; he took away all the vile habits of the Indian. This good man spoke to three of our people: he knew the Indian; he talked to us kindly, and with patience, we thought what the good man told us to do, and first two or three broke away from the bad habits, learned Christianity. After a while scores came out and' we have become a tribe of good men, laboring-for ourselves; and loving each other. This was better than guns and swords was it not! .better, than to, kill, us as bad whites do. With some tribes the name of missionary is horrible to them, but some missionaries do good to us, and you white people are what yon fire by missionaries' efforts, and the Indian can be made good, if you Bend him good missionaries. The missionaries have done all the good to the Indians that the Indians have. But the policy of the government is bad; government gives us reservations, and settlers come in contact with us.. They want our land, and tell the government to buy out land; bad men tell lies to the government, and government gives millions of dollars, and drives the Indians away. How can we save the Indian? I ask every one of you. What way shall we save the remnants of the Indians that are now suffering? We are; now being pursued and tilled by the United States dragoons. Gen. Scott says; ' in nine cases out of ten, Indian; troubles are brought on by white people.
<c04>
You are capable .of goodness; of charity? I appeal to your Christianity; you can save the Indiana if you give; them your Christianity, your: money .your, good will.; if you are Christians', bend your knees tonight to God, and tell him' you will try and save] the Indian.
.The preamble and articles of association of the ‘Philadelphia Indian Aid. Society’ were next read,] which-.were ordered to be printed for circulation among the citizens 
The following resolution was then unanimously 'agreed to 
Resolved, That this meeting recommend to-the Philadelphia Indian Aid Association, that they use' their influence with the United States government. to effect a peaceable settlement of the difficulties now \ existing between it and the various tribes, on our frontiers.
SEAMEN AND THEIR FRIENDS.
We believe the American Seamen's Friend Society has now been some thirty or forty years in operation, during which period it has sustained missionaries in home and foreign ports, distributed a good many .books and tracts, raised and spent consider- j able money. We presume that its officers and. managers are worthy men, and that the Society does some good, and would like to do more.
And yet-for the truth must be spoken-the average character of American seamen is now lower than it was. the day the Society was organized, while their need of wise and powerful friends was never greater than now. For, of all the abused, belabored, outraged classes of men on God's footstool the men who sail American vessels, under American officers, with the American flag flying over their head, are the most mauled, maimed, lashed, gashed, cut up, and every way tortured and brutalized. The treatment of negro slaves by white (or black) masters, is indefensibly bad; but that of American seamen is still worse. Take a thousand white sailors and ten thousand black slaves at random, and we are confident the amount of abuse and torture inflicted on the former exceeds the kindred sufferings of the latter. The especial brutality and ferocity of American shipmasters and mates, is notorious former Cape Horn to the Baltic. They are oftener had up for trial on charges of murder, manslaughter, maiming, cruelty, &c., than twice their number of the marine in any other country. A majority of our veteran seamen would rather ship for a voyage under a Turk or Algerine, than under an American.
Of course there are noble and striking exceptions; but the general case is as above stated. Of course, too, the seamen trained under the discipline we have hastily outlined, are a stolid and abject class, so used to being kicked, and cuffed, and knocked down, that they have lost all self-respect, all sense of shame, all aspiration to the good opinion of others. The generous Simple-hearted, rollicking Jack Tar of other days has vanished, and in his stead we have a debauched, downcast, sulky ruffian, who is thrown on shore to squander. his remnant of wages in the very lowest and vilest gratification of his depraved appetites, and then taken drunk to obliviousness aboard a fresh vessel, and shipped for a voyage by a contract, in making which he has had no more conscious agency than has any bale of goods that goes on the Biime' vessel. From being from a brief season the prey of all manner of detestable land sharks, he wakes to be harshly ordered to duty, thenceforward to be the victim of despotism and cruelty till the voyage shall have ended. We do not believe the average sailor of to-day so high in the scale of moral being as was the Phoenician or Carthaginian sailor of over two thousand years ago.
If the good Samaritan, honored forever by the Savior’s narration, had turned aside to look com- | passionately on a certain man who had been so un- j lucky as to fall among thieves, and, moved by his sorry plight, had given him a handful of tracts .and j prayed that they might be rendered effectual to the saving of his soul, it is quite unlikely that he would have ever been so pointedly commended by Jesus Christ. Not that the tracts and the prayers would J have been intrinsically worthless-quite otherwise, j But, excellent as they were in their place, they j were not adapted to his most urgent need. It was j requisite that the sufferer's physical wounds should first be dressed before his spiritual destitution could j be successfully treated. Even though the end de- j sired were wholly a moral one, it was necessary to j minister first to his pressing bodily ills, if only to j prepare him for the successful treatment of his moral deficiencies.
We beg the Seamen's Friend Society either to | change its name, or else resolve to institute a thorough and searching inquiry into the average: condition and treatment of American Seamen on ship and shore, with special reference to these questions:
1 What are the usual sleeping accommodations of seamen on shipboard? and are they consistent with health, comfort, self-respect, or moral purity?
2. What provision, in the way of books, etc., is usually made on shipboard for the intellectual and moral improvement of the seaman's leisure hours? and why should not a modest library of well-chosen books be among the indispensable furniture of a forecastle?
3. Why should men who work at sea require constant mauling, whaling, bruising, maiming, to make them do their duty, when men of essentially the same stamp and caste who work on land are not struck one blow each per annum by their employer or his agents?
4. How can any human being be expected to develop, or even retain, self-respect, good impulses, or any desire to be better, if he is to be treated by his superiors to incessant vituperation, blasphemy, beating, and mangling, from the hour he Brut awakes to consciousness on shipboard, until he. is turned off at the end of the voyage?
5. Is it not possible to improve the influences which usually surround the sailor on shore, so as to save his means and his morals, from the harpies that now speedily devour the former, and still further deprave the latter?
Might not Christian ship owners be induced, by proper representations, to resolve and agree that no person who signed the shipping articles while in-, toxicated, or was sent on board insensible from liquor, shall be allowed to make another voyage in any of their ships?
7. What attention to profit from our Bibles, tracts, and religious ministrations can be expected from men as debauched in mind and body as are a majority of our seamen?
8. What reason other than that of ill treatment above indicated can be assigned for the steady decrease in the relative number as well as character of American-born seamen, rendering necessary a constant evasion or violation of our navigation laws? And would not our ship owners be profited by such care for the rights and well-being of our seamen, as would induce energetic and adventurous American youth once more to incline to seamanship as a vocation?
Men and brethren! think of these things.
CRUELTY TO SEAMEN. 
Almost every paper that we take up contains items of cruelty and barbarity to seamen, perpetrated by masters of vessels on their crews, a very great, and, it is evident, a growing evil. The last case that has come to oar notice is that of Captain Ephraim Pendleton, of Bath, Me., master of burque Sarah Park, who has been arrested at San Francisco, on a charge of having treated his sailors with horrid cruelty, and having killed one of them, named Williams, kicked him, chained him in an uncomfortable position, placed him where he could be washed by the cold sea water, and deprived. him of food and rest until the poor fellow .died. The in-habitants 6£San Francisco were terribly exasperated on learning the facts, and a mob of several thousands attempted to take him from the officers in order to hang him to a lamp-post, but he was' safely longed in jail
However right and reasonable it might seem to be to give to each nation exclusive authority over its! own vessels on the high seas, yet the practical application of that doctrine is not without objections He remits.-- It serves to screen 'from investigation
and punishment many-acts of brutal cruelty
In a late number of the .London Times, in find; that in the twelve month from June, 1857to June,1858., there were admitted into the Northern Hospital at Liverpool upwards of a hundred and fifty patients from foreign merchant vessels mostly American, suffering at the -time of their admission-from injuries or maltreatment the hand of their officers
The law of nations, as it stands at present, for bid the a juries to account, though from calling: the inflictors: of the injured to account; though both" parties, the injured and the injured, may' be within* its jurisdiction, except in cases when the act has been per.
<c05>
petrated within British waters. If a seaman has been killed or maimed by the officers of a foreign vessel while on the high seas, though that vessel afterward enter a British port, bringing with it the corpus delicti the maimed seaman, the captain who maimed him; arid the witnesses of the transaction, land though the maimed seaman be deposited in a British hospital for medical treatment, yet no. British court, nor anybody else on British ground, has any lawful jurisdiction in the case, and the only chance which the suffer has of bringing the persons who Injured him to account is to return to the United States, and here institute proceedings, if, indeed, when he gets here, the parties and witnesses are to be found, of which there is a but alight probability. So the officers of British. vessels arriving in the United States are, under like circumstances, free from any responsibility to our courts. The ef­fect of this rule must evidently be not merely to insure impunity for many injuries of the grosses! character, but even to hold out the temptation to make the injury so severe as to render it necessary to leave the sailor behind, thus depriving him of all but the, merest chance of ever obtaining any legal redress.
This would seem to be a very fit case for a modification, by treaty, of the existing rule, similar to that which has been made with respect to the extra­dition of criminals. Of all nations in the world we and the British have, by far the greatest in interest in navigation, which interest cannot but greatly suffer from unpunished abuses of this sort. Our laws, and our system of administering justice, are substantially the same, and why not give to each other a mutual cognizance of such cases? 
AFFAIRS IN HAYTI.
PORT AU PRINCE, April 12,1859.
The Government Strengthening-Important Speech of President Geffrard at Croix des Couquets-The Position and Policy of the Government, etc.
The intrigues against the republican government by the friends of anarchy and of the ex-Emperor, which seemed, notwithstanding the political quiet of the country, to be of a serious nature, are gradu­ally becoming less to be feared, and the government each day becomes stronger. The rumors that are so industriously asserted whenever political parties are contending in Hayti have all been used in vain. It seems that agitators have whispered throughout the island that the republican policy was to merge all small estates into large properties; that in this way alone could the island regain its prosperity, by introducing system and uniformity of purpose in agri­culture. It is also said that the army was being reduced in order to introduce a foreign Power, and again put Hayti under the control of an European sovereign. To refute these charges, without pro­ceeding to violent measures-for it is said that the government are aware of the movements of their most determined opposers-the President, Fabre Geffrard, addressed a large assemblage at Croix des Couquets. In addition to the inhabitants of the city and neighborhood, many persons were present from Port au Prince. The speech is so much to the! purpose, and as it gives a fair view of the policy and position of the government, I think it well worth sending you. It is as follows:-
SPEECH OF PRESIDENT GEFFRARD.
Three months ago the northern army entered your city; your property and persons were respected; no one had cause of complaint. How could it have been otherwise; that numerous army, abandoning their homes and families, were on the way to fight for jus­tice, the people, and respect for private property. We triumphed, for God led us to the capital and not a drop of blood was shed. How, then, my friends, can it be that I who led this army, having ventured my life and my family-how can it be that I should spoil you of your property. Believe not this hideous lie; they who assert it are the enemies of peace, who, to advance their criminal ambition would throw our country into confusion and tur­moil. No, citizens, your estates are your own, and no one is so powerful as to despoil you. He who possesses an acre of earth is as surely a proprietor us he who holds a hundred. The land of the first is as safe as that of the last. Each may cultivate his estate according to his will and enjoy its proceeds without Fear of oppression. The government only seeks your welfare; she would see each citizen happy, rejoicing with his family in the pleasures of peace and tranquility. The government labors for your good; then labor yourselves in all security. Buy land according to your means, and whatever you may gain is yours alone; I hope to see you all landed pro­prietors.
Up to the present date you know how the army has been recruited. All above the age of fifteen were enrolled in the army, and twenty years of military service were due to the State. But the twenty years was a lifetime, and often death only freed the sol­dier, after twenty or thirty years of service. Re­cruits were received without order, at all times, by the caprice of any officer. This system destroyed agriculture and industry; the inhabitants, often obliged to leave their work in the midst of harvest, became reckless, and finally fell into abject misery. To remedy this disastrous state of affairs, the government has resolved to require but nine years of service from each individual, after which they are free to labor for the welfare of their own families. In regard to the soldiery at present under arms, it is decided to grant dismissal to all who have served a certain number of years. A great number have already demanded and obtained their dismissals. These dismissals are the rewards for service and fidelity for those who have earned the right of repose. Well, the demon who seeks to deceive you spreads the false report that the government disbands the army to place it in the hands of foreign­ers. Madmen! They do not see that your own good sense must reject such rumors. What! does not each soldier that obtains his dismissal become incorporated in the National Guard, and does not the National Guard choose its own officers? What stronger guarantee would you have, my friends? Does not the National Guard watch overall; and again, my friends, my father, General Geffrard, fought for independence and the liberty of the land. I, his son, have fought for liberty, for justice, for equality, and for the republic, sacred to all. Do you believe, then, that I, that those about me, the sons of beroes, who died for the liberty of Hayti, that we can bring upon you, upon ourselves. a foreign yoke? No! God knows it, you do not believe this. They deceive you-they think to sow dissension in our midst, by exciting the black against the mulatto, the mulatto against the black. Was not a negress our common mother? are they not brothers? Think that about us thousands of our brothers groan in slavery-think that the whole world look upon us while the oppressors of our race rejoice in our misfortunes, to make firmer the bonds of slavery. Let us remember that Hayti is the only land upon earth free to the black and the mulatto. Citizens, I count upon your good sense and the purity of your hearts. As for the wretches whom the gov­ernment know well, but against whom she will only proceed after having endeavored to recall them by means of kindness and persuasion-let them con­sider themselves warned this day. If they continue their culpable acts, they shall be delivered to the tribunal; and if the law strikes them, the govern­ment will see the law executed without pity.
Go, my friends, labor in peace, and may you be as happy as you may wish.
From the Chicago Tribune.
WOMEN'S RIGHTS IN MICHIGAN
While legislation for the protection of married women against the brutality and scoundrelism of husbands makes but little progress in some of the States, in others it begins to display its beneficence and power.-An occurrence, unfortunately for the reputation of the stronger sex, common among the profligate and drunken, in which the operation of a wise and just State law is illustrated, we find in the papers of the day. A wretch, tied by bonds which she cannot sever, to a woman whom the law calls his wife, took advantage of her temporary absence from her home, in Detroit, and sent all. the furniture to the store of an auctioneer, by whom it was sold. His children, turned out of doors by the in­human father, sought refuge with a neighbor; On her return, she found that the door other empty house was locked, and that her children had disap­peared. She was not long in ascertaining the true condition of affairs, nor in. commencing legal pro­ceedings for redress. The brute of a husband had meanwhile made away with the proceeds of the sale in a lengthened debauch; but she, leaving him to his bestiality betook herself to the auctioneer, who was compelled to make restitution to the full value of all that he had sold- the statute governing the matter expressly declaring that in no event has the husband a right to dispose of household effects, the just earnings of both, without the wife's consent;
<c06>
and that if a sale is made, the wife is entitled, not as in sales of real estate, to her dower, but to the full value of the property of which she is despoiled. This is a step towards a practical assertion of women's rights. rights which is worth all the loud and un womanly talk of wandering female reformers, to which disgusted crowds have ever listened. Let women be adequately protected in their persons and property first, and they will not wait long for the opportunity to become militia officers, barristers politicians, and office-holders, if they desire, as do true woman will, the distinction which may be conferred by traveling out of the duties to which they were born. They stature of michigan might be beneficially copied in every other State.
Ayers's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy. in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. 'It is believed that such a remedy is wasted by those who suffer from Strum us complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS ERTPTION AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCTRIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULORETY, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, EAYSIPE LAR, ROSE OR SR. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPUXITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood it that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of the a many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of foul remedy. spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting, through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is from and your feelings will tell you when. even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery or life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserve much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtues that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often so curative properties whatever, hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, aid has become synonymous with imposition and chest. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY.
DR. J. C. AYEB & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
 Price, $1 per Bottle! Six Bottles for $3.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lug Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of is virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we reed not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion. dyottert. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, pile. Rheumatism. Eruptions and Skin Diseases, lites Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and nalt Worms, Gout, neuralgia as a Dinner Pill and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best <illigible> the world for all the purposes of family physte.
Price, 25 cents per pox; Five boxes for SL00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, <illigieble> and eminent personages, have lent their names <illigieble the unparalleled usefulness of these <illigieble> our space here will not permit the insermon of then. The Agents below named furnish gratis out AMERITLAS ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also al descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. the sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, }
BROWN & PRICE, salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J.N. MORTON &CO., concord, N.H.
Sold by druggists and dealers in medicine every were. 6m may1
HUMORS OF THE HUMAN SYSTEM.
IT is well known that the juices of the body and governed by natural laws, such as regulate the vegetable life in the change of seasons,
In winter, they are congealed, of in common perlance, the 'sap is down,' the porese are closed, and our whole body is hard and firm, and an accumlation a impurities takes place in our system.
The genial influences of Spring cause an expanson of all living matter, the sap rises in vegetable His. also the juices of our bodies are given out and enter in to the common circulation.
This is a law to which every human being, is subject, and the neglect of it has caused a whole summer of misery.
Now is the time to apply a remedy that clearms and searches every fibre and pore, and eradiestes every particle and sediment of humor that has laid stagnant during the winter.
Kennedy's Medical discovery is well know to our readers as the greatest and best Blood Purities its world has ever produced. We advise each and all of our readers to use bottle of it this Spring; we say one bottle, for that will cure the impurities of one season, and preparte the system for the changes of the next.
Where the disease has fastened itself and become settled in the system, larger quantities are required.
For Scrofula, Erysipelas, Salt Rheum, Scald Heat, White Scales, shingles, Pushes, Ulcerated son Legs, Humor in the Eyes, running of the Ears iror Scarlet fever of Measles, the Medical discovery can be relied upon to efect a perfect cure. 
May 13.
BREAD,
WITHOUT POWDERS OF YEAST.
'We have seen bread so prepared, and can testify that it was light, highly palatable, and very destrible.'-Boston Herald.
'The disuse of yeast, salaeratus, soda, and health-destroying mixtures in bread-making is to item that will recommend itself to every house keeper,'-Boston Traveller.
'We recommend this work, because we know, from happy experience, that it gives directions how to make the best bread we ever tasted.'- world’s Crisis.
This light, delicious bread (with flour and water only) can be prepared for baking in a few minutes and may be eaten warm without injury. We and the above, with other receipts for healthful cooking &c.,) for 10 cents;
Your address' merely, and one dime, will insare you, by return of mail, the above little work. Persons interested are invited to call and see this delicious bread. at Temperance House, 18 and 20, 1st Grange Place.
February 1s
