THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof".
"I lay this down as the law of nations, I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the states where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATUS, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY,HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION FO THE SLAVAS. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from the instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for salves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, Whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are se in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all slaves in the invaded territory. -"J.Q.ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, printers.
VOL. XXX[1.NO.18.
BOSTON, FRIDAY,MAY 2, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1636.
<C01>
Refuge of Oppression.
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT.
The president contrary to our most earnest hopes, has approved the bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.
We need hardly say that the President’s reasons for approving the bill are not, in our opinion, such as should governed him at this extraordinary juncture of the national history. They are not to us sufficient reasons. On the contrary, we think they weigh as nothing compared with the grave reasons in the opposite scale.
The enemies of the country will not doubt attempt so to use the act by representing it as the first step toward the abolition of slavery in the States; but this representation, if made, will be very gross misrepresentation. The Republicans, as a body, our readers know full well, always declared that Congress had constitutional power to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, and the Congress ought to exercise the power. They, however, have always declared, with the same unanimity, that congress does not possess the constitutional power to interfere with slavery in the States. And they now declare so with especial distinctness and so lemnity.
We, of course, except from the scope of the remarks we have now made such abolitionists as Sumner and his scattered followers in Congress. With the exception of the few racing zealots, of whom most republicans are heartily ashamed, the men who voted to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia avow themselves as resolutely opposed to interfering with slavery in the States as the men who voted against the measure are known to be. Their avowals are distinct and emphatic.
It is but fair to let the Republican leaders speak for themselves on this head. Senator Fessenden, of Maine, a portion of whose remarks we, in another aspect, held up to deserved censure, the other day; said, in the course of this speech on the measure under notice:
[The Journal then quotes from a recent speech of Mr. Fessenden of Maine, and one from Mr. Sherman of Ohio, both disavowing, in the most explicit terms, all purpose of interfering with slavery in the States,-and proceeds-]
Such are the views and sentiments of every man who voted for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, with the infamous exceptions we have mentioned above. We repeat, therefore, that the adoption of the measure, through improper in itself and grievously inexpedient, has no connection what-ever with the abolition of disturbance of slavery in the States. It is simply a culpable blunder, perpetrated out of blind or headlong regard of party. We indeed have to excuse to make for it. It is inexcusable. It is work of men, who, for the nonce at least, sunk in the partisan both the patriot and statesman. Thus much it is; but it is not a forerunner of abolition in the States. It has in reality n future significance of any kind. It is nothing more or less than piece of unseasonable bungling that ends with itself. It is one of the "fantastic tricks" sometimes played by men before "high heaven", in which the "sharp and sulphurous bolt" of authority is levelled at the "soft myrtle", instead of 
-" the unwedgeable and gnarled oak"
We hope that the majority in Congress are at length through with such tricks, and will henceforth leave in peace the myrtle of parry eye-sores, while they split the oak of the rebellion. Let Congress address itself exclusively to the mighty task of reestablishing the government. The people demand this, and they will make the demand effective, if it should be, withstood. On this subject the people are growing terribly in earnest. Not much longer will they brook the wretched trifling and the more wretched botching of their servants at Washington. If this Congress does not get better of its own nation, the people will either make it better, or make better one.-Louisville Journal.
A STRANGE MESSAGE.
We publish, in the Congressional proceedings of Wednesday, a Message from the President, announcing that he had signed the bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. We confess we do not understand the meaning of the document, or the purpose for which it was communicated. It could not have been sent to Congress to inform the body that had signed the bill, for that was both superfluous and contrary for all usage. Nor was its object to give his reasons for signing the bill, for it does not give them, and it would also be contrary to all usage for him thus to do. Why, then, was it sent? What humbug purpose or covert meaning is embraced in this strange sentence:-" If there be matters within and about this act which might have taken a course a shape more satisfactory to my judgment. I do not attempt to specify them"! It is well known that the provisions of this act are indirect conflict with Mr. Lincoln's oft avowed sentiments, and it would seem the part of prudence, at least, under such circumstances, for him to have quietly signed the bill, if compelled to yield to the abolition pressure, and not proclaim to the world, and put upon official record, the declaration of his inconsistency and weakness. He has heretofore declared his conviction the Congress has no moral right to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, except upon the condition that emancipation should be gradual, and that it should receive the sanction of a majority of the legal voters. Yet he now approves of immediate emancipation, without the sanction of the votes of the District, and in the face of their earnest protest! It may well be asked whether his course is hones or honorable, considering that thousands voted for him with this understanding of his position, who would not have voted for him if he had declared himself to be an immediate and unconditional emancipationist. And the time choose for the perpetration of this act of inconsistency, folly and injustice renders Mr. Lincoln's weakness far more reprehensible; for in the judgment of those best able to form a correct opinion of its effect, no measure could be more untimely, inexpedient or unwise.-Concord (N.H.) Patriot.
The current of events is pressing upon thoughtful minds the question whether there a deliberate purpose to wholly disregard the Constitution, and to wage the war against the South, not for re-union, but for subjugation, devastation and emancipation. We freely confess that recent developments leave us not without serious apprehensions in this relation. How can it be otherwise, when the atrocious theories of extreme abolitionism are being practically illustrated in the legislation of Congress? Is military force to accomplish that for which civil authority was found to be inadequate? Are arms to strike down the Constitution, and then citizen who 
<c02>
shall presume to appeal to it as his shield? Is it the design to slay, or to subjugate and place under absolute military rule, eight millions of "the bone of our bone," in order to liberate four millions of the black race? What is to be done with the descendants of Ham-four millions of whom in all time were never before, from childhood to age, in sickness and in health, so well fed, so well clothed, so far instructed, religiously and otherwise, as the four millions now living on this continent? Are they to reveal in idleness and vice, on the fairest part of all our broad domain, or are they to be scattered, and in woe and want to seek the shelter of our poor-houses? Is this the red hue of Republican charity? Is this, to use the strong expression of our best prose-writer in designating modern philanthropy-is this the swift "Engine of Hell" on which abolitionism is now getting up the steam? On what principle have the seditious doctrines of Helper and his endorsers secured for him and them places of trust and power? What are intelligent and honest men North and South to infer from the action of the U. S. Senate and House of Representatives in relation to the District of Columbia, the amendments to the Fugitive Slave Law proposed by Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, and the swarm of abolition emissaries, men and women, sent from New England and New York to Beaufort, South Carolina?
Many intelligent and reflecting men think they see in the proceedings of Congress from week to week, more and more clearly, that emancipation is the gist of the war; that Wilson and Sumner and Wade, and their associates and followers, would hail peace, under the old Constitution, with its provisions touching slavery, as any thing but a blessing; that even in the face of general bankruptcy and universal ruin, the slaughter of our neighbors, the destruction of their dwellings, and the driving out of the white women and children from their homes, is not to cease, if they can help it, until slavery is abolished. We conclude with the language of the Providence Post:-"They are pressing forward their ultra partisan measures! They demand eternal separation, not restoration! We have warned them against their course, and we warn them again! If they would keep the North united, let them stop this Disunion work in Congress."-Ibid.
EFFECTS OF WENDELL PHILLIP'S LECTURES WEST.
The Great Popular Voice of Chicago-Uprising of the Conservative People-Majority 1183-Eight of the ten Wards elect Democratic Aldermen.

From the Chicago Times of April 16.
The joy in Chicago over the victory of the Union arms at Fort Donelson was scarcely greater than that manifested last night over the Union victory won in the municipal election yesterday. Bonfires burned in all directions, the streets swarmed with happy faces, and the air was filled with jubilant shouts.
Great as the victory was at Fort Donelson, we doubt if it was of so much value to the Union cause as will be the civil victory of yesterday in this city.
The one was a victory over rebels in arms; the other was a victory over men who are really more dangerous enemies of the Union than rebels in arms. It was a victory over abolitionism.
Since the reception of Wendell Phillips in this city, the men who brought him here, and who applauded his treasonable utterances at Bryant Hall, and who have defended him since his departure, have grown bold, and as the municipal election approached, they determined to seize the machinery of the Republican party, and convert it to the use of placing before the voters a ticket peculiarly their own. This they accomplished under the leadership of the morning abolition newspaper sheet. The climax of their boldness was in calling their ticket a "Union ticket."
This done, the Democracy and other conservative citizens had no other alternative but to bring out a Democratic ticket. Such a ticket was brought out on Saturday, headed by Francis C. Sherman for Mayor, and yesterday it was elected by one thousand one hundred and eighty-three majority. Seven, and perhaps eight, of the ten wards, elect Democratic Aldermen!
It is emphatically a victory of the Constitution and the Union—the old Constitution and the old Union—alike over Southern secessionism and Northern abolitionism.
Chicago has been esteemed the very stronghold of abolitionism in the whole country. Abolition here has affected to rule the roost. Its overthrow is one of the most significant signs of the times that has yet appeared in the horizon. Overthrow here, where can it be sure of domination?
This victory in the metropolis of his own State and of the Northwest, is a loud voice to the President of the United States, and to all others in authority at Washington. It is a voice of approval of every act of hostility by the President to the design of abolitionism thus far, and of warning to him and to everybody that those designs do fearfully provoke the popular displeasure.
It will be a cheering victory to the soldiers in the field. It will nerve them to still more gallant exploits.
And it will cheer the Union men of the South. If this be the voice of Chicago, they may well reason that abolitionism has culminated as a power in the North.
All honor to the Democracy and other conservative people of Chicago, who have won the victory!
Wendell Phillips is nervously anxious to make this a war for the black man instead of the white man—for four millions of people instead of thirty—to organize a new Government instead of maintaining the present. He tells his friends they must strike quick or it will be too late—he wants abolition meetings holden everywhere—he commands the Republicans to become Abolitionists—has great confidence that at least one half of the face of Secretary Stanton is black already, and that the President's is coloring rapidly. He proves himself as competent to pass judgment upon military administration as civil, by his criticisms upon officers at the head of our armies, and in the estimation of statesmanship evinced in covering Sumner all over with an eulogistic plaster spread with marvellous thickness. A short time since, Phillips said Garrison should be consulted as to the manner of conducting the war—now be would place Sumner at the head of the civil Government! SUMNER Dictator and GARRISON Major General Commander! These are the kind of men Wendell Phillips is urging the Legislature, the people in Faneuil Hall, the merchants on the Exchange, citizens everywhere, and of all degrees and occupations, to sustain. The acts and counsels of Phillips and his abettors have afforded the leading rebels at the South the influence they have used to plunge the nation into its present condition, and now they would trample upon the body they have tried to murder. The lives and treasure sacrificed—the loss of power, and the poverty and oppression and ages of misery entailed by this rebellion, are the dividends we receive from the existence of such men as Beauregard,
<c03>
and Phillips who thanked God for creating the rebel chief. If citizens South and North, suffer themselves to be guided by such men, the cup of which they are now tasting will be as honey in comparison with the gall of the future.—Boston Post.
Selections.
THE CAUSE AND CURE OF OUR NATIONAL
TROUBLES.
Extracts from an admirable Speech of Hon. GEORGE W. JULIAN, of Indians, delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, Tuesday, Jan. 14, 1862:—
THE GUILT OF SLAVERY.
Sir, this rebellion is a bloody and frightful demonstration of the fact that slavery and freedom cannot dwell together in peace. The experiment has been tried, thoroughly, perseveringly, and with a patience which defied despair, and has culminated in civil war. We have pursued the spirit of conciliation to the very pates of death, and yet the "irrepressible conflict" is upon us, and must work out its needed lesson. I do not refer to our uniform forbearance towards slavery as a virtue. On the contrary, this has only maddened and emboldened its spirit, and hastened an event which was simply a question of time. We, in the free States, are not wholly guiltless, but I charge to the account of slavery that very timidity and lack of manhood in the North through which it has managed to rule the nation. It has prepared itself for its work of treason by feeding upon the virtue of our public men, and demoralizing the spirit of our people. As an argument against slavery, this rebellion is absolutely overwhelming. Nothing could possibly add to its irresistible force. Other arguments, however convincing to men of reflection, have not thus far been able to rouse the mass of our people to any very earnest opposition to slavery upon principle; but this argument must prevail with every man who is not a rebel at heart. This black conspiracy against the life of the Republic, which has armed half a million of men in its work of treason, piracy and murder—this magnificent spectacle of total depravity made easy in real life, is the crowning flower and fruit of our partnership with the "sum of all villanies." All the crimes and horrors of this struggle for national existence cry out against it, and demand its utter political damnation. In the fires of the revolution which it has kindled, it has painted its own character with a pencil dipped in hell. The lives sacrificed in the war it has waged, the agonies of the battle-field, the bodies and limbs mangled and maimed for life, the widows and orphans made to mourn, the moral ravages of war, the waste of property, the burning of bridges, the robbery of forts, arsenals, navy-yards, and mints, the public sanction and practice of piracy, and the imminent peril to which the cause of free government throughout the world is subjected, all write their deep brand upon slavery as a Christless outlaw, and plead with us to smite it in the name of God.
THE REAL ISSUE—OUR DUTY.
Can I be mistaken, Mr. Chairman, in holding slavery to this fearful reckoning? If so, why has there been no rebellion in any non-slaveholding State? Why is it, that in the great centres of slavery treason is most rampant, while, as we recede into regions in which the slaves are few and scattered, as in Western Virginia, Delaware, and other border States, we find the people loyally disposed towards the Union? These facts admit of but one explanation. Kindred to them is the known character of the men who are conducting this rebellion. They tell us, as Vice President Stephens has done, that slavery is to be the corner-stone of the Southern Confederacy. Its leaders and their associates denounce Jefferson as a sophist, and the Declaration of Independence as "Red Republican doctrine.". They speak of the laboring millions of the free States as the "mud-sills of society," as a "pauper banditti," as "greasy mechanics and filthy operatives." They declare that "slavery, black or white, is right and necessary"; and this doctrine has been advocated by the Southern pulpit, and by the leading newspapers of Charleston, Richmond, and New Orleans. They believe with Calhoun, that slavery is "the most safe and stable basis for free institutions in the world." They agree with Governor Hammond, that "slavery supersedes the necessity of an order of nobility, and the other appendages of a hereditary system of government" They teach that "capital should own labor," and that "some men are born with saddles on their backs, and others booted and spurred to ride them by the grace of God." In the language of a distinguished rebel Senator, they "would spread the blessings of slavery, like the religion of our divine Master, to the uttermost ends of the earth." By these atrocious sentiments they are animated in their revolt against the Government. Sir, does any man doubt that, should the rebels triumph over us, they will establish slavery in every free State? Was not the immediate cause of the revolt their inability to diffuse this curse under the Constitution? They do not disguise the fact that they are fighting for slavery. They tender as that special issue, and have staked the existence of their idol upon the success of their arms against us. If we meet them at all, we necessarily meet them on the issue they tender. If we fight at all, we must fight slavery as the grand rebel.
Do you tell me that the question involved in this war is simply one of Government or no Government? I admit it; but I say the previous question is slavery or freedom; or rather, it is the same question stated in different words. Slavery and treason, in this struggle, are identical. It is slavery which to-day has the Government by the throat, and thus thrusts upon us the issue of its life or death. Do you say that the preservation of the Union must be kept in view as the grand purpose of the war on our part? I admit it; but I say that nothing but slavery has brought the Union into peril. Its whole career, as I have shown, has been a perpetual conspiracy against the Constitution, crowned at last by a deadly stab at its life. Am I told that this is a war for the life and liberty of a nation belonging chiefly to the white race, and not a war for the emancipation of black men? I frankly agree to it; but I insist that our national life and liberty can only be saved by giving freedom to all, and that all loyal men, therefore, should favor emancipation. Shall the nation be sacrificed rather than break the chains of the slave? Shall we madly attempt to carry on the war as if slavery had no existence? Shall we delude ourselves by mere phrases, and pretend ignorance of what every one knows and feels to be veritable truth? Shall we prosecute this war on false pretences? Shall we even shrink from the discussion of slavery, or talk about it in circumlocutions, lest we give offence to rebels and their sympathizers?
THE OLD ORDER OF THINGS-THE TRUE "RECONSTRUCTION."
I know it was not the purpose of this Administra-
<c04>
tion, at first, to abolish slavery, but only to save the Union, and maintain the old order of things. Neither was it the purpose of our fathers, in the beginning of the Revolution, to insist on independence. Before the first battles were fought, a reconciliation could have been secured simply by removing the grievance which led to arms. But events soon prepared the people to demand absolute separation. Similar facts may tell the story of the present struggle. In its beginning, neither the Administration nor the people foresaw its magnitude, nor the extraordinary means it would employ in prosecuting its designs. The crisis has assumed new features as the war has progressed. The policy of emancipation has been born of the circumstances of the rebellion, which every hour more and more plead for it. "Time makes more converts than reason." I believe the popular demand now is, or soon will be, the total extirpation of slavery as the righteous purpose of the war, and the only means of a lasting peace. We should not agree, if it were proposed, to restore slavery to its ancient rights under the Constitution, and allow it a new cycle of rebellion and crime.
The rebels have demanded a "reconstruction" on the basis of slavery; let us give them a "reconstruction" on the basis of freedom. Let us convert the rebel States into conquered provinces, remanding them to the status of mere Territories, and governing them as such in our discretion. Under no circumstances should we consent to end this struggle on terms that would leave us where we began it. To conclude the war by restoring slavery to the constitutional rights it has forfeited by treason, would be as unreasonable as putting out the fire, and turning loose the incendiary with torch in hand. It would be like reinstating the devil in Paradise, to reenact his rebellion against the Most High. Sir, let us see to it, that out of this war shall come a permanent peace to these States. Let us demand "indemnity for the past, and security for the future." The mere suppression of the rebellion will be an empty mockery of our sufferings and sacrifices, if slavery shall be spared to canker the heart of the nation anew, and repeat its diabolical deeds. No, sir. The old dispensation is past. It served us as a schoolmaster, to bring us into a new and higher one, and we are now done with it forever. We determined, in 1860, that the domination of slavery should come to an end. The Government had long been drifting into its vortex, but we resolved, at whatever cost, to rescue it. Had we been satisfied with the rule of slavery, as it existed prior to the rebellion, we might have had peace to-day. We might have agreed to the election of Breckinridge. We might have avoided war, even after the election of Mr. Lincoln, by calling into his Cabinet the chief rebel conspirators, who would have been pacified by the spoils, while serving the behests of slavery. Having chosen a different course by the election of a man committed to a specific anti-slavery policy, and having undertaken to execute that policy against all opposition, we are now shut up to the single duty of crushing the rebellion at all hazards, and blasting, forever, the power that has called it into life.
SLAVERY OUR EVIL GENIUS-WE MUST SMITE IT.
Slavery, as I have already shown, has been the evil genius of the Government from its birth. It has frustrated the design of our fathers to form "a more perfect Union." It has made it impossible to "establish justice," or "to secure domestic tranquility." It has weakened "the common defence" by inviting foreign attack. It has opposed the "general welfare" by its merciless aristocracy in human flesh. It has denied us "the blessings of liberty," and given us its own innumerable curses instead. It has laid waste the fairest and most fertile half of the Republic, staying its progress in population, wealth, power, knowledge, civilization, the arts, and religion, thus heaping its burdens upon the whole nation, and costing us far more than the market value of all the millions in bonds. It has made the establishment of free schools and a general system of education impossible. It has branded labor as dishonorable and degrading. It has filled the ranks of infidelity, and brought religion itself into scorn, by bribing its professors to espouse its revolting iniquity. It has laid its wizard hand upon the mightiest statesmen and most royal intellects of the land, and harnessed them, like beasts of burden, in its loathsome service. It has denounced the Declaration of Independence as a political abomination, and dealt with our fathers as hypocrites, who affirmed its self-evident truths with a mental reservation, while appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of their intentions. While spreading licentiousness, concubinage, and crime where it rules, it has lifted up its rebel voice in the name of the United States, in pleading the cause of despotism in every part of the civilized world. And, as the fitting climax of its career of lawlessness, it has aimed its dagger at the Government that has fostered and guarded its life, and borne with its evil deeds, for more than seventy years. Sir, this mighty rebel against all law, human and divine, is now within our grasp, and we should strangle it forever. "New occasions teach new duties," and we should employ every weapon which the laws of war place within our reach in scourging it out of life. Not to do so, I repeat, would be the most Heaven-daring recreancy to the grand trust which the circumstances of the hour have committed to our hands. God forbid that we should throw away this sublime occasion for serving his cause on earth, leaving our children to deplore the slighted opportunities of the past!
EMANCIPATION A "MILITARY NECESSITY."
Mr. Chairman, I need make no argument to prove that slavery is an element of positive strength to the rebels, unless we employ it in furthering our own cause. The slaves till the ground, and supply the rebel army with provisions. Those not fit to bear arms oversee the plantations. Multitudes can be spared for the army, since women overseers are as capable and trustworthy as men. Of the entire slave population of the South, according to the estimates of our last census returns, one million are males, capable of bearing arms. They cannot be neutral. As laborers, if not as soldiers, they will be the allies of the rebels, or of the Union. Count all the slaves on the side of treason, and we are eighteen millions against twelve millions. Count them on the loyal side, and we are twenty-two millions against eight. How shall this black power be wielded? A gentleman, occupying a very high official position, has said that it would be a disgrace to the people of the free States to call on four millions of blacks to aid in putting down eight millions of whites. Shall we then freely give the rebellion four million of allies, at the certain cost to as of many millions of money and many thousands of lives? And, if so, may we not as well reinforce the rebels with such portion of our own armies as will make the contest equal in numbers, and thus save our cause from "disgrace"? Is the conduct of this war to be the only subject which requires men to discard reason and forget humanity?
The rebels use their slaves in building fortifications; shall we not invite them to our lines, and employ them in the same business? The rebels em-
<c05>
ploy them in raising the provisions, without which their armies must perish; shall we not entice them to join our standard, and thus compel the enemy to reinforce the plantation by weakening the army? The rebels employ them as cooks, nurses, teamsters, and scouts; shall we decline such services in order to spare slavery? The rebels organize regiments of black men, who shoot down our loyal white soldiers; shall we sacrifice our sons and brothers for the sake of slavery, refusing to put black men against black men, when the highest interests of both white and black plead for it? In the battles of the Revolution, and in the war of 1812, slaves and free men of color fought with a valor unexcelled by white men. Are we afraid that a like honor to the colored man would be repeated, and thus testify against his enslavement? I do not say that any general policy of arming the slaves should be avowed; but that in some capacity, military or civil, according to the circumstances of each particular case, they should be used in the necessary and appropriate work of weakening the power of their owners. Under competent military commanders we may possibly be able to subdue the rebels without calling to our aid their slaves; but have we a right to reject it, at the expense of prolonging the war, and augmenting its calamities? Is it a small thing to sacrifice unnecessarily the lives of our young and middle-aged men, the flower of the land, and rive with sorrow the hearts of friends and kindred? Can we afford a dollar of money, or a drop of blood, to spare the satanic power that has hatched this rebellion into life, and is now the sole barrier to our peace?
GUILT OF THE CHURCH AND MINISTRY.
Extract from a Sermon preached by HENRY WARD BEECHER, in the Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, N. Y., Sunday morning, April 13:—
To a very great extent, the religious organizations of the land have refused to remember those in bonds as bound with them. I do not mean that there have not been hosts of individual Christians that have obeyed this divine command; but they have been individuals There have scarcely been communities that have done it. I do not mean that there have not been many single churches, and one or two particular denominations, like the Associate Reformed Presbyterians, the Free-will Baptists, the Moravians, the Quakers and the Congregationalists, that have been, to an extent, free from positive contact with slavery, and have been more or less active in moral enterprises. But, regarded as a whole, the instituted religion of our land has neglected to put the conscience of the nation upon its guard. They have not educated it.
What has happened in fifty years? With a ministry as able in learning as ever the world saw, more numerous in proportion to the population than the ministry of any other country, and living under the institutions of a Government which secures to them every freedom to teach and to preach; and with a power of the press to diffuse right knowledge such as was never before seen, there has taken place right in front of the church a revolution of opinion so gross and so wicked, that in after times it will stand as a blot on our national history. What has been that revolution? More than fifteen States have utterly revolutionized their political opinions on this very question of slavery. The whole church of those fifteen States has apostatized from the world's long believed doctrine of human rights. And through all the rest of the country there came on such a revolution of belief in respect to the sacred principles of man's right before God, as an immortal creature, to life, and liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, as never had its parallel or equal. The church saw it, and refused to speak. Ministers saw it, and were dumb. And the instituted religion of this country, for fifty years, has stood by and seen this revolution in opinion with comparative indifference. To be sure, in later days, it has helped to bring on a counter-revolution. Thank God for that. To a large extent, the churches have been lukewarm. Even where in churches Christians have been roused, and the national conscience has been brought back, it has not been done by associations, or presbyteries, or assemblies; it has not been done as a part of church work properly. Churches have refused to do it on the ground that they were not organized to meddle with political matters. But I declare that in this country the church that is not organized to meddle with political matters, is not organized to meddle with anything. What is American life but this: that men are educated from the cradle to take care of everything that belongs to national living? You educate your boys and girls to think on everything that concerns the public weal. They are to go into the midst of the affairs of society, and they are to participate in those affairs. Every man in this country is not simply permitted to act in matters relating to the welfare of the community, but he is, by virtue of the Constitution and our hereditary ideas, sworn so to act. He is sworn to act as legislator and as judge. Every man that belongs to this Government is a factor thereof. In administering the affairs of this land, we do not stop to ask pope or bishop what we are to do. We are priest, and we are king. That is to say, every individual man has a part in the business of governing in this nation. All our institutions are in the hands of the common people.
Now, the church that does all its duty, except teaching the people how to conduct themselves rightly in the performance of this highest of duties; the church that teaches the people everything of the life to come, but nothing of the life that now is—why, such a church is like a chart that is so constructed as to teach a man how to act when he gets to Liverpool, but that bears not a mark of direction as to what he shall do on the ocean between here and Liverpool! A church that is not organized to teach men how to act with reference to the things of every day; a church that is not organized to instruct men in regard to public sentiment, the texture of the laws, the habits of the people, the institutions of the country, and the spirit of the age; a church that does not take any care of the duties of men respecting these things, nor of the men in the discharge of those duties—what is such a church worth?
I declare that although our American church has thought itself bound, as a church, in its individual pulpits, and in its collective forms, to speak against ten thousand vices, and many crimes, yet in respect to the great fundamental questions of God's justice as represented in more than four millions of men, it has deliberately asserted that it had nothing to do with them, on the ground that it was not its business to meddle with or touch politics. And I should think that politics had not been touched by the church, from the character that it has assumed. For if there ever was an infidel politics, an irreligious politics, we have had it. The reason is that it has had no right teaching. And at this hour, the whole voice and volume of religion I not sounded; nor is there any majestic utterance of God’ thoughts by his united people
Why, crickets would make head against flame on a prairie in autumn, as easily as the influences
<c06>
of slavery would make head against the spirit of Christian love and justice, if the whole church of the North would rise up and speak. Sinai would he as nothing compared with God's will as it might be expressed through the conscience and understanding and enthusiasm of the whole free church of the North. The religious feeling of this nation on the subject of slavery is not yet united. It is timid and indifferent. It is calculating and material. It is disposed either to evade this great evil, or actually to compromise with it. There is no electric power in the spirit of religion in our land. There is nothing that makes it rolling, victorious, omnipotent
THEN AND NOW
"When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream."
The men who resisted the arrogance of Southern men, and the headlong reaction of Northern politicians plunging through apostacy into utter ruin in the year 1850, can bat think the scenes of 1862 a dream! Recall the Fugitive-Slave bill, made purposely as offensive as it could be made; the immolation of Mr. Webster; the Castle Garden meeting of New York; the prescriptive lists of merchants who dared to believe that this land was not ordained to be a mere nurse of slavery; the ostentatious enforcement of the Fugitive-Slave law in Philadelphia, in New York, in Boston, as if the great leading cities were eager to show to the South that each was more subservient than the other; the ridicule to which that simplest of all fundamental moral truths was subjected, that in conflict of human laws with moral duties, men must obey God rather than men; the extraordinary confusion and upsetting of affairs that set men who really hated slavery into a quasi defence of it; consider that cunning political management which conjured the terms Union, Constitution, Patriotism to the side of oppression, so that every man who would defend liberty seemed to attack the Union and laws, and every man who desired to maintain the Constitution was obliged to seem a defender of slavery, thus cozening both sides, and, as in an infernal enchantment, giving false colors to all things, and bewildering thousands of weak good men so that they found themselves doing what they hated, and betraying what they loved ;—let one-but recall these now faint but once lurid excitements that filled the nation! Let him evoke from oblivion the undisguised disunion sentiments of conventions, politico-commercial, throughout the South for fifteen years before this secession mania; the arrogant and insufferable bearing of Southern men in Congress; the Douglas' Kansas-Nebraska act, the uproar and wild excitement consequent; the emigration to Kansas; the formation of societies in the South for the propagation of slavery, and in the North of counter associations; the abominations of Southern men in Kansas, and the connivance of Government with them !
To-day what do we see? The whole public mind is changed, and a united North is agreed that slavery must die. The President recommends and Congress passes a bill to inaugurate emancipation, offering aid to all States that shall choose that policy, from the public Treasury. Several States begin to manifest a change of public feeling—Western Virginia, Maryland, Missouri—and evince a growing disposition towards emancipation. But, more wonderful than all, emancipation declared by Congress in the District of Colombia; and the capital of the nation freed from the abomination and guilt of slavery!
Do people realize the change that has come over Congress? For aught that appears, the Senators and Representatives are gentlemen, and might be Christians, even, for aught that we can see. Bludgeons, loaded canes, knives, pistols, are no longer used in debate. Are we awake, or do we dream, in these days of emancipation, of decent Congresses, of a united North?
But what are all these things? They are no fit criterion of the extraordinary change and progress of our day. The event of the century is the publication, by the Nassau-street Tract Society, of an anti-slavery book! A charming little hand-grenade they have thrown into the system of slavery. Its contents are the speeches of Fox and Wilberforce, delivered seventy years ago, (the seventy years of Babylonish captivity are ended to Israel,) against the slave-trade; Clarkson's narrative of its abolition, the famous Presbyterian resolutions of 1818; the plan of the synod of Kentucky in 1835; and Dr. Young's sermon of 1836 on the duty of masters!
Dream? We are like that dreamless old Rip Van Winkle that did not know the most familiar scenes! What is the Boston Society going to do now? Is the New York branch to be allowed to take the wind out of its sails in this summary manner? The Boston Society should publish Theodore Weld's Bible Argument on slavery. That will put them a little ahead again. The next move of Nassau street will then be to bring out a digest of Mr. Seward's speeches. This will be met by the Boston Society by a judicious series of extracts from Mr. Garrison's works. Meanwhile, will the New York brethren accept our congratulations? We now roll a great burden off. They have kept us in a perpetual trouble. We have had a deal of watching, of writing, and of judicial chastisement on hand, on their account, for a long time past. We dismiss all further care. Only (as a new broom sweeps clean) allow us the pertinent exhortation, brethren, not to make haste too fast. Men long famished are apt to over-eat of stimulating food! Pray "let your moderation be known to all men!" Who knows <illegible>that anti-slavery Samsons may yet eat honey out of the carcase of the old dead lion?-New York Independent.
THE FIRST ACT OF ABOLITION.
“The World rolls Freedom’s glorious way,
And ripens with her sorrow;
We sow the golden grain to-day,
The harvest comes to-morrow.”
The results of this war, which abolitionists have been patiently waiting for, are at length appearing. On Wednesday, the 16th of April, the capital of the United States of America became a free city. No inhabitant of that city will ever hereafter be a crushed, degraded, unprotected bondman or bondwoman. In one short year, the strong arm of Divine Providence has accomplished the work. Only a year before, that capital had been marked by the spoiler as an easy prey. The call of the President or seventy-five thousand men was designated by Jefferson Davis as an attempt to “play the game o brag,” and when read in the rebel Congress, it was greeted with roars of laughter. So low had freedom sunk; sp high and slavery risen. This was the dark hour before dawn, which the true friends of their country had long expected. The direct and final collision between the two antagonistic powers they now accepted as a stern and inevitable necessity. The unanimity with which abolititionists of every shade throughout the country ranged themselves on the side o the government was surprising. The moment it was discovered that the President was in.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
earnest, every anti-slavery voice, pen and press, this side the Atlantic, bade him God-speed. The veteran editors of the Anti-Slavery Society, Garrison and Johnson, hitherto advocates of peace and non-resistance, with a remarkable prescience of the mighty import of this struggle, instantly placed their long-cherished desires for the peaceful solution of this question in abeyance, and accepted, as the just punishment of Heaven upon a guilty nation, the dread and bloody issue of civil war. Wendell Phillips, who up to this hour had denounced the government and its officers as the "slave-hounds" of the North, now became the uncompromising advocate of the government and the war. So unanimous has been the voice of the anti-slavery community in favor of putting down rebellion by force that amongst the Free Mission friends who have corresponded with the American Baptist on this subject, we know of but one who would, on any consideration, allow slavery to retire and set up a kingdom of its own.
This unanimity, on the wrong side, as our friends in England have been pleased to consider it, has been to them a perfect enigma. There, it was at once taken for granted that the Union was irreparably disrupted; that the suppression of the revolt was a hopeless and insane undertaking; and, further, that it was in itself undesirable. English abolitionists could not believe that the strength of anti-slavery sentiment in the North was sufficient to carry any measure of emancipation through Congress. They argued that the conquest of the South would only more firmly rivet the letters of the slave; and when Congress passed an act to confiscate slaves employed against the Union, it was taken for granted that it was the design of Congress to sell them for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the war! Such grave misapprehensions as to the nature of the struggle in which we were engaged could not but produce some irritation; and much is it to be regretted that, instead of waiting for time to develop the real position of all parties, ink, paper, and good temper should have been wasted in mutual recrimination that must leave a sting behind. The London Times, which has been the great perverter, deceiver and false prophet, now excuses itself for its false predictions on the plea that events have turned out exactly contrary to all the probabilities. "Why," inquires this Sir Oracle, "have all our predictions been falsified, and why do events proclaim us false prophets-blind leaders of the blind? Because everything has gone as it was not probable that it would go, we judging of probabilities." No, it is not the probabilities, but the Times' perverseness, that is at fault. Events have turned out just as it appeared probable they would, and just as the people of the whole North have anticipated, except that the rate of progress has been somewhat greater than was expected. Not only the ultimate subjugation of the rebellion, but the downfall of slavery with it, in case the contest should be prolonged for any considerable time, has been the nearly universal opinion through all the northern States from the commencement of the war.
We have been rather surprised at the coolness with which the great initiatory act of abolition has been received by the people at large. No guns, no bonfires, no illuminations, no gatherings, no orations, scarcely anything beyond a general expression of quiet gratification at the consummation of the act. It has so long been a foregone conclusion that slavery must be extinguished, at least in the capital, that people of all classes take it much as a matter of course. In the midst of exciting battles, we are not in a favorable state to appreciate the real magnitude of this event, which in future history will overshadow all the previous occurrences of this great drama. The day when slavery ceased at Washington will be celebrated by future generations as a grand holiday, scarcely second in glorious recollections to the Fourth of July. The importance of this measure should not be estimated by the numbers liberated. What though the first bill for emancipation be for a single city, affecting but a few thousand instead of millions of our suffering fellow-citizens, and costing the nation but a million of dollars at the outside? What though the wound inflicted upon slavery is but the fine puncture of a stiletto? The weapon, though small, has gone directly to the heart, and it will sound a death-chill through every artery of the hydra-headed monster. The Stars and Stripes now speak freedom, and they must carry it wherever they wave. The great car of liberty was already on an inclined plane, and nothing was wanting to set it in motion but the striking away of a single block. This has now been effected, and what shall hinder the car from rolling on? It is morally certain that in a very few months the work of emancipation will commence in the States. Western Virginia is fully ripe for it; Missouri and Maryland cannot long delay. Every State that transfers itself to the side of freedom increases the necessity and hastens the period of emancipation elsewhere. Meanwhile the area of the institution is being rapidly diminished by the progress of our armies, especially when we consider the positive declaration of the President, that none of those liberated by our arms shall ever be returned to bondage.-American Baptist.
THE DAY IS BREAKING. If ever we thanked "God from the bottom of our hearts for any political event, it is for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. At last, the deed of justice is done. The act which for months has been suspended in the two Houses of Congress, has passed them both; it has been signed by the President, and is the law of the land. Henceforth no man has a right to buy or to sell, or to hold a human being as a slave, within that city which bears the great name of the Father of his Country. The District of Columbia is free soil-every inch of it-as truly as Massachusetts. The slave trader can no more drive his gangs of slaves under the shadow of the Capitol than under the shadow of the monument on Bunker Hill. The free men of the North, and strangers from abroad, will no more be sickened at the sight of men women, and children, held as slaves in sight of the very Temple of Liberty. This great and peaceful achievement is an event for which we may indulge in mutual congratulations, while we join in devout thanksgiving to God.-New York Evangelist.
The abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia is an accomplished fact. The President has signed the bill, and in ninety days all the person cow held unjustly as property will become their own masters, and be restored to their natural birth-right of liberty. One great step has been taken towards effacing the foulest stain upon the American people Slavery henceforth, so long as it shall last, is sectional, freedom national. The policy of the Federal Government is henceforth to be in favor of freedom, and its influence, so far as it can properly and legitimately be exerted, will be in behalf of free labor and the equal rights of all men to their own person and the fruits of their industry.
For the success of this important measure, the people are largely indebted to Hon. Henry Wilson, whose efforts to secure its success have been unceasing, and who accumulated an unanswerable array of facts and statistics in its support. The President has fulfilled the expectations of his friends, in signing the bill, and sadly disappointed the pro-slavery men, who, like the Boston Courier, have been howling and lamenting over the triumphant passage of the bill through Congress, and whose last hopes of its defeat lay in a veto by the President.
Would it not be well for the public to give more notice to this great event than a mere passing remark? We fire salutes and illuminate our dwellings for victories on the battle-field; can we not much more appropriately do so over a great victory of peace like this?-New Bedford Repub. Standard.
The colored people of this District have had a continued jubilee since the House of Representatives passed the Emancipation bill. They seemed to have no doubt of the President's signing it, however the pro-slavery politicians might argue the probabilities of the matter. Last Sunday, there was a happy time at all the colored churches; it was the same yesterday; and it is now probable that the colored churches will unite upon Thursday next as a day of thanksgiving.
A friend who has a priceless old female colored servant was yesterday somewhat surprised and annoyed by having the Sabbath stillness of his house invaded by shouts and cries from the kitchen. Proceeding to the place from whence the cries were uttered, be found the old servant on her knees, shouting with all her might, "Glory to God! the jubilee has come at last!' "I could not go to church," said the servant, deprecatingly, evidently noticing her master's annoyance, "but I wanted to do my part of giving thanks for the jubilee!" The master did not chide her for her boisterous thankfulness.
The morning after the President signed the bill, a slave-master in this city-an honorable man, al-
<c02>
though blinded by the influences of the institution—gathered his slaves around him in his breakfast-room. He had taken pains to conceal from them -what was going on in Congress until the Emancipation bill was a law. Now, with the printed bill before him, and his former slaves gathered around the door of the apartment, he said: "Congress has made you free, and I am not sorry for it. You have been faithful to me as slaves, and I will see that you receive every advantage which the law intended to confer upon you. Now you are perfectly free to stay or go. Keep your present places, and I will open an account with you, paying you what you could earn elsewhere." Not one desired to go, but the cry of each was, " Master, we desire to stay!" and to-day the only " ruin" which the Emancipation act has brought to that family, or the former slaves in it, is the happiness of all: the parties concerned. The slaves remain in their old places, and receive wages for their services. With civilized and Christian masters throughout the South, this is all that a general Emancipation act would do to ruin the slave States. The colored people would remain where they now are, and would simply be paid for their labor.
The day on which Mr. Lincoln signed the Emancipation act was a happy as well as beautiful one. That evening, as one of the most distinguished members of the Cabinet was walking from his Department to his house, he exclaimed to the friend at his side, "All this day that Emancipation act has been in my breast, It seems wonderful to think that the capital is free! You hear no thunder of artillery at the arsenal, but I tell you this is a greater achievement than any won on "the field of battle!"—Washington correspondent of the New York Independent.

THE LIBERATOR
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1862.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 6, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock.
The Society will meet, for business- purposes only, in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, at 3.1/2 P. M. on Tuesday, and 10 A. M. on Wednesday.
Among the speakers will be Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, WENDELL PHILLIPS, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WM. WELLS BROWN, and Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretary
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretary.
THE NEW YORK (CITY) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will hold its anniversary in the Cooper Institute on WEDNESDAY evening, May 7th.
DESCRIPTIVE EPITHETS. The New York Journal of Commerce thinks the epithets we have used to describe its course of persistent pro-slavery villany to be in bad taste! Being justly applicable, we could properly use no others. We find ourselves well supported, in dealing thus with it, by the scorching terms embodied in the 23d chapter of Matthew, which were unquestionably deemed quite scurrilous by those to whom they were addressed. The Journal of Commerce omits to mention, of course, that we have copied from it, for the last quarter of a century, hundreds of columns of its slanderous charges against the Abolitionists and the Anti-Slavery cause,—usually without a single word of reply; leaving our readers to decide for themselves whether any castigation of it could be too severe. When will that paper allow a single article of ours to appear in its columns in vindication of the principles and measures we espouse?
CONTRABANDS TO HE ENROLLED IN GEN. HUNTER'S DIVISION. The Tribune's Washington despatch says the War Department has issued an order for arms and clothing for the loyal blacks, to be enrolled in General Hunter's Division.
Among the other significant signs of the times is a letter in the St. Joseph (Mo.) New Era, from B. Gratz Brown, the editor formerly of the Missouri Democrat, in which he avows himself an "agitator" in behalf of emancipation, total and speedy, of slavery in Missouri, and his intention to continue the discussion until the institution shall be unknown in that State.
Here is another incident. Governor Tod, of Ohio, has taken the rebel prisoners in that State under his care, and is sending off the slaves still remaining with the rebel officers, in small squads, not back to slavery, but northward to freedom.
THE ANNUAL MEETING. The twenty-ninth annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, to be held in New York on Tuesday, should bring together as many of the earnest and untiring friends of the cause as possible. Of the whole series of anniversaries of the Society, only one has been omitted; and that exceptional case, in view of the imperilled state of the country at that time, was clearly warranted, in the unanimous judgment of the Executive Committee. The potential reasons which then weighed so heavily in the balance do not now exist; and we therefore look for a cheering anniversary. Dreadful as is the bloody struggle now going on in the land, yet all the signs of the times are hopeful. The total abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia is, alone, an event deserving of special commemoration; and the acclamations which have followed in every part of the North are presumptive evidence that there would be no bounds to the joy of the people, should the Government also decree the entire abolition of slavery throughout the land. Nothing but this is wanted to crush the rebellion at once, and through universal freedom to establish a symmetrical and happy Union.
TREATMENT OF THE SOUTHERN BARBARIANS. In publishing the favors of correspondents, and articles from various journals, we sometimes find sentiments in them which we cannot endorse, although we do not deem it necessary in every case to register oar dissent. But, in these warlike times, we desire to avoid seeming to give any countenance to the spirit of vengeance; and so—while admitting that the atrocities committed by the Southern barbarians upon both the living and the dead soldiers of the North are of the most revolting character—we cannot subscribe to the sentiment contained in the lines on " The Knights of the Skull," in our poetical department—
"Let your war-cry be vengeance—demand blood for blood!
Till the foe bite the dust at the feet of the brave! "
Still, this is the true "patriotic" vein, and those who are not non-resistants can consistently make no objection to it
SATANIC DEMOCRACY. The manner in which that great and glorious event, the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, has been received by the Democratic presses of the country, universally, may be judged of by a perusal of the articles in the "Refuge of Oppression," from the New Hampshire Patriot. They denounce it in unmeasured terms, and are furious that the capital of the nation is cleansed from pollution and blood, the national character redeemed to that extent in the eyes of the civilized world, and the bondage of many generations has terminated forever. It matters not to them that Government has given the quid pro quo, at the market value, for the victims whom it had the constitutional right to set free unconditionally—they, delight in yoke* and fetters, in slave-whips and branding-irons, in the supremacy over the legislation of the country of the dealers in human flesh, and in making democracy synonymous with diabolism.
<c03>
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY.
There could not possibly be a stronger indication of the turning of the popular mind against slavery than a movement of the American Tract Society in that direction. The grave and reverend seigniors who manage (and who practically constitute) that Society always go with the multitude, even when that goes the right way. But they never act hastily. They wait long enough to obtain a confident assurance which way the multitude will continue to go. And heir echoing of President Lincoln's moderate moves of separation from slavery clearly shows their confident expectation that his is the winning party; that he will increase, while the slaveholders must decrease. With the progressive diminution of slavery, their language against it will become more and more energetic; and when it is utterly extinct, without hope of resurrection, they will use against it the very epithets which Abolitionists have hitherto used, and will assume, as a matter of course, that the saints always took that position, and that only the unregenerate were ever the upholders of human bondage. 
Some of my readers will remember the name and history of "the suppressed tract." The old policy of he tract managers was to say nothing about slavery, even snipping out all incidental mention of it from he pious books formerly existing, which they adopted into their series and republished. But in 1857 it occurred to them that their position might be fortified by republishing a few sermons and essays originally written and printed by slaveholders, which assume he rectitude of the system, while protesting against certain customary features of it, which they called 'abuses." This publication, of 76 pages, called 'Scriptural Duties of Masters," was actually printed and stitched, ready for distribution, at the Tract House in New York, at the time of the Annual Meeting in May, 1857; but on the representation of Southern friends of the Society, that this would injure instead of helping them, since a publication about slavery would immediately give rise to the demand for a publication against slavery, it was suppressed, and from that time until the present year, the Secretaries adhered to their former policy of printing nothing (except underhand private correspondence) on the subject. 
I had occasion, a short time ago, to call at the Depository of the New England Branch of the American Tract Society, 78 Washington street, Boston, and the courteous Secretary asked me to accept what he called "our last pro-slavery book." This proved to be little volume of 144 pages, with the following title:—
"The Enormity of the Slave-Trade; and the Duty of seeking the Moral and Spiritual Elevation of the Colored Race. Speeches of Wilberforce, and other Documents and Records. Published by the American Tract Society, 150 Nassau street, New York."
Though this title shows no reason for the descriptive epithet used by the Secretary, I found that epithet amply justified by a portion of the contents. In fact, the book is composed of two elements exceedingly dissimilar; the former half contains various speeches writings and documents in condemnation of the slave trade between Africa and the British West Indies which was abolished, by act of Parliament, more than half a century ago; the latter half republishes various documents heretofore written and circulated by slave holders in various parts of our Southern States, the actual and natural tendency of which has been to continue and strengthen the system of slavery.
Of the former half (the Wilberforce portion) of this book, it needs only he said that, since the America Tract Society, a few years, ago, refused to pass the resolutions offered by Dr. Patton and others against our slave trade, which was then not only existing but flourishing, and well known to be carried on by vessels fitted out in New York, the publication of it show movement and progress in the Society. It is some thing, it is a beginning, to speak against even a dead and buried iniquity, so closely akin to that living on which they have hitherto refused to touch with even a resolution of censure. And it is encouraging to remember that the Managers would not have done even this, had they not seen their way clear, by slow degrees and with advancing time, to do more. Their having made this infinitesimal movement in a direction varied from their old one shows that they see the approaching downfall of slavery; and their taking time to get faced in an opposite direction, and their doing this by several separate movements instead of at once are no evidence of continued doubt, but only of their accustomed observance of moderation, dignity, an apparent consistency with their past action.
Their high value for consistency is the exciting cause no doubt, of their selection of matter essentially pro-slavery to accompany the writings of Wilberforce and Clarkson. Though inexorable circumstances compel them to desert slavery, they will still stand by the pro-slavery "Christian brethren." And the three documents which make up the remainder of the book in question are the productions of clerical slaveholders, long since published by slaveholders, and circulated among them, and seeking to purchase a continuance of the system by a protest against certain accompaniments of it which they represented as abuse The Reverend gentlemen who originally got up these documents seem to have feared that they could not keep slavery unless it was reformed; and they tried to mitigate its horrors that they might keep it; that it might not altogether be taken out of their hands by the advance of civilization and humanity. 
These three documents are the following:—
"Unanimous Action of the General Assembly the Presbyterian Church in the United States, 1818.
"The Substance of the Plan of a Committee of the Synod of Kentucky for the Instruction and Emancipation of their Slaves, 1835."
"The Duty of Masters: a Sermon preached Danville, Kentucky, in 1846, and then -published the unanimous request of the Church and Congregation. By Rev. John C. Young, D.D., President Centre College, and Pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Danville. Revised by the Author."
The two former of these documents speak very strongly, and very justly, against slavery, but agree that it may be continued for the present. The consequence has been, that the members of the bodies in question have held on to it to the present moment, no evidence appearing of the least mitigation of its cruelties on their part.
The third of these documents (which also formed portion of the contents of "the suppressed tract" above referred to) represents slaveholding as right, approved by God, and in accordance with the Gospel only needing to be pruned of some objectionable features. Dr. Young and his people have continued slaveholders, as might be expected; and, as might be expected, there is not the slightest evidence of the slightest degree of reformation on their part. They printed and circulated the sermon because it seemed suited to maintain and fortify slavery; and it has answered their expectations. But these are the sort o people whom the Managers of the Tract Society have been accustomed to call Christians; therefore they still call them so; and they clench the position by republishing this old pro-slavery literature, as if it were good instead of evil.
The gradual change of position to which I have referred in the American Tract Society has appeared yet more manifestly in the columns of its monthly paper, The American Messenger. Commencing wit great moderation in the February number, they spoke a little more and a little stronger in each succeeding one, until in May they publish the President's Message recommending the gradual "abolishment" of slaver; speak of it as a document after their own heart, an piously announce that they are ready, "as the Providence of God shall open the door, "to uphold full and resolutely the national authority. They tell the readers that "recent[!] disclosures have shown" that the foreign slave-trade has been maintained from Northern, ports—as if they had not shared the public knowledge of this fact for ten years past!—that "the Gospel forbids that this Society should lend even the acquiescence of silence" to a system which has slavery for its corner-stone—as if it had not impudently and persistently disregarded this same prohibition in
<c04>
every previous year of its existence!-that " no accumulation of difficulties can justify the neglect of these oar brethren," the colored people of the South-as if they had not practised all manner of dishonesty, up to the present year, in the attempt to show that existing difficulties made it a duty to neglect them!-and, finally, that, if freedom can be attained, "the Gospel recommends that the Christian bondman ' use it rather' "-as if, up to this year, every functionary of the Tract Society had not steadily refused to recognize the existence of that important passage of Scripture!
What good can be expected of a Society which carries on even a reform by the use of shameless deception and imposture? Is the slightest confidence to be put in its fair speeches? Will any man of average sense and prudence put money intended for the colored refugees into the hands of this Society, while he can possibly find another agent?- C. K. W.

REPLY TO THE LETTER OF WM. C. MARTYN.
West Brookfield, Mass., April 22d, 1862.
MR. GARRISON:
MY DEAR SIR,-The Liberator of April 18th has been forwarded to me at this place to-day. I find in it a letter from Mr. Marty n in reply to a former communication of mine in the Liberator of April 4th. I am glad that your note will relieve Mr. Martyn of his misapprehension in regard to the author of the letter to which he replies. I desire to make no concealment or to evade any responsibility for my public statements. I was moved to the very unpleasant task of writing to you by no personal ill-will, but simply by a sense of duty to the Anti-Slavery cause, as well as to Mr. Martyn himself. It is proper to say, also, that I did not anticipate that my communication would be published by you, at least until you had privately investigated the charges therein made. I gave you liberty to make any use you saw fit of the information, and your judgment decided to make it public, and I have no fault to find, but only regret that any other person than myself has been made obnoxious to the censure of Mr. Martyn. With the personal remarks which he makes in regard to the imagined author of the charges against his integrity, I have evidently no concern, since they are plainly not directed towards me. I can only express the wish that I could believe that they sprang from a sense of injured innocence.
Now, MR. Editor, the only point of interest to the public in this unpleasant controversy is-Are the charges made against Mr. Martyn in my letter of April 4th true?
I have read and considered Mr. Martyn's reply with an honest hope to find some ground for retracting my former opinions, and concluding that I had misjudged him. I wish I could now write you that I believed myself mistaken in my facts or my inferences of April 4th, but I am sorry to say that I am forced to believe, in face of Mr. Martyn's denials and I explanations, that my charges were only too true. Allow me to tell you why I think so.
First, then, in regard to the occurrence at Yale which I narrated in my former letter. Mr. Martyn denies that he directed his acquaintance to call on him at "No. 5 South Centre," but directed him to me at South Middle. I can only say in reply, that I was in company with a classmate at the time we met the gentleman at Yale, and my classmate (whose name I will also give Mr. Martyn, if he desires it) has the same recollection and knowledge of the circumstances with myself. The gentleman inquired only for Mr. Martyn, at the same time showing us the address as before given. I had a long conversation with the gentleman, during which he learned my name, but never intimated that Mr. Martyn had ever spoken of me. I cannot of course say that the gentleman was truthful in his statements, but it is difficult to see what should have led him thus to seek Mr. Martyn at Yale, with a written address, and to make no mention of me, nor to recognize my name when known, if it be true, as Mr. Martyn alleges, that he was only directed to call for me at South Middle. Mr. Martyn thinks it hard that I did not direct the gentleman to his residence, instead of concluding that "an old acquaintance was a liar and a rascal." In the first place, I did not know that his family resided in New Haven at that time, nor, in the second place, did I "rush headlong, with volunteer haste, to any conclusion." I simply told the gentleman that Mr. Martyn was never in college, and he very easily drew his own conclusions. It was not until I became convinced by other and stronger evidence that I deemed it my duty to make the statement which I did to you. It was no concern of mine how much Mr. Martyn imposed upon private individuals, but when he burdened the Anti-Slavery cause with the bad character which I believed he possessed, I think it was properly my concern to expose him.
Now a few words in regard to Mr. Martyn's conduct and representations at LeRoy, N. Y. I am today in receipt of a letter from my classmate at LeRoy, in which he informs me that from careful personal inquiry, he finds that all my statements of April 4th are confirmed, and much more might be added of the same character. This he has from the lips of the persons who met Mr. Martyn in LeRoy. Indeed, Mr. Martyn admits the charge that he advertised himself as a member of Yale College, but overcame his scruples on the score, to "save the expense"! Is this the conduct of an honest man Would you, Mr. Editor, use handbills on which you were advertised as an Orthodox clergyman? Especially would you fail to inform your audience, if such a mistake had occurred? It is certain, then, that Mr. Martyn lectured at LeRoy under the false character of a student of Yale College, and the people of LeRoy never learned the falsehood or "mistake" from him. My classmate at LeRoy (whose name is also at the service of Mr. Martyn, if he has forgotten it) adds that the pretence of high scholarship was also made as the excuse for so long absence from his class. In a word, everything was said which was deemed necessary to keep up the consistency of the character assumed.
But Mr. Martyn says he has "never valued a college-bred reputation sufficiently to lie himself in." He should have remembered, when he said that, the letter which he wrote to a gentleman in LeRoy, after leaving that place, in which he uses these words:-"Owing to the increased weakness of my eyesight on returning home in November, I was obliged to disconnect myself with college during the remainder of the year." What does this language mean? "Disconnect" himself with a college with which he knows he was never connected? What has he to say, also, to the reply of this gentleman, that it would not "pay" for him to come again to LeRoy until he had "made it clear that he was not an impostor"? 
It gives me no pleasure, Mr. Editor, to state or to believe these things of any man, especially of an acquaintance whom I once supposed to be honest and honorable. I would gladly unsay all I have said, if the facts and the evidence would allow me.
With great respect, your obedient servant,
D. HENRY CHAMBERLAIN.
WORCESTER, April 25th, 1862.
MR. GARRISON:
Mt Dear Sir,-A friend has called my attention to the letter of Wm. Carlos Martyn, in the Liberator of April 18th current. The nature of that document is such as has induced me to add my testimony while his case is on trial. 
His hot haste in suspecting his assailant, when he might so easily have known him, and his deliberate misrepresentation of-'s (Mr. Chamberlain's) article, are inexcusable, but altogether characteristic; and allow me to add, dear sir, that I was not a little surprised that you should have admitted to your columns those portions of his letter which reflect upon the character of an individual no wise involved in the controversy. (1) Whether your humble ser-
(1) We saw the impropriety of this when it was too late to make the needed curtailment, and regretted it both for Mr. Martyn's sake and Mr. Allen's, whose name, however was not mentioned in the letter.-[ED. LIB.
<c05>
vant is the individual he thus gratuitously maligns, I am not certain, "The internal evidence furnished by the piece is both pro and con. What—aside from the attempt at portraiture, concerning the success of which I will not assume to be critic—seems to indicate myself as the one aimed at, is his reference to the report in the Worcester Spy of the meeting at Framingham, July 5th, 1858. At the, time of which he speaks, I used occasionally to report for that journal, and I am the only student now at Yale who has had any connection with it. Supposing, for the moment, the evidence conclusive, it affords a new instance of his readiness to "suspect," without sufficient ground. He is mistaken as to the author of that report.' My visit to Framingham was one of pleasure, and not of business. One of the editors of the Spy was present, land "took the notes." That "malignant and silly attack" was the impartial judgment of an older critic than I am. Let me quote it entire:—
"A young gentleman, named Martyn. now came forward, and treated the company to a schoolboy declamation on the general subject."
I heard only the concluding passages of Mr. Martyn's effort, but am inclined to believe the above remark neither "malignant" nor "silly." It is only not flattering. So much for the evidence pro.
On the other hand, Mr. Martyn states twice that he knows the person of whom he writes only by reputation, and never had a dozen words with him in his life. Now, Mr. Martyn has frequently engaged in long conversations with me at "Worcester, has more than once been present where I have spoken, and has called upon me at my college-room until his acquaintance became so unpleasant that, during his last visit, I excused myself from his company. There is no one else in Yale whom Mr. Martyn could have supposed responsible for the remark in the Spy: yet, if he speaks of me, he is guilty of a deliberate and repeated falsehood in the matter of our acquaintance.
In regard to his aspersions of my character, I am confident they will carry with them no weight until he shall have vindicated his own. I have grown up in this city, and whoever may think it worth while can easily satisfy himself concerning my trustworthiness. I make no boasts and challenge no comparisons, least of all with such as he. Believe me, I am heartily glad this individual has revealed the shallowness of his regard. In my presence, he always abounded in sickly flatteries. Now he is unreservedly committed. The friendship of a dog may be better than his enmity, but the friendship of some men is infinitely worse.
I was absent from college during the latter part of last month, and knew nothing of the letter of your correspondent, (Mr. Chamberlain,) until more than a week after its publication; yet I was previously well acquainted with the circumstances which he therein cites, and had I seen Mr. Martyn's proposal to lecture and your endorsement of him, should have felt in duty bound to communicate them to you. His defence is characteristic,—as weak and unsatisfactory, it seems to me, in its matter, as in its style it is turgid and frothy. "-" will, I doubt not, make its flimsiness sufficiently apparent.
G. WALTER ALLEN.
CONSUMPTION: How to Prevent It, and How to Cure It. By James C. Jackson, M. D). Boston: B. Leverett Emerson, 129 Washington Street. 1862 pp. 400.
Consumption is the scourge of New England in special: the number of its victims, annually, boars a fearful proportion to that of any other disease that is not epidemical. How to prevent it, and how to cure it, is, therefore, a question of the deepest interest to all classes. In this volume, Dr. Jackson treats the subject in a most intelligent, searching and popular manner, avoiding all those medical technicalities, which, to the uninitiated, are utterly unintelligible. His style is flowing, lucid, and, for such a treatise, singularly attractive; and the scope of his survey indicates rare powers of observation, of analysis, and of judgment. The work contains twenty-five chapters, in the following order, upon the following topics:—
CHAPTER I. Why should Persons die before their Time?
II. Breeding of Children often a Predisposing Cause to Consumption.
III. Consumption—What is it?
IV. Impairment of the Constitution by Drug-taking.
V. Exhaustion of Vital Power, or Debility, caused by Excessive Sensual Indulgence.
VI. Difference in Age of the Parents a Cause of the Consumptive Habit of Children.
VII. Predispositions to Consumption, growing out of the Use of Unhealthy Food.
VIII. Impure Water, Mineral and Medicated Waters, as Predisposing Agents to Consumption.
IX. Alcohol, and its Influence in developing Consumption.
X. Causes operating on the Mother during Pregnancy, and those which are induced after Birth.
XI. Causes which are not Congenital, but induced after Birth.
XII. Sleeping in the same Bed with Consumptive Persons.
XIII. Breathing Impure Air in Close Rooms, Shops, Factories, Privies, &c.
XIV. Causes operating to produce Consumption in Persons predisposed to it, originating in their Conditions of Mind.
XV. Recreations and Amusements. XVI. The Influence of Dress in producing Consumption.
XVII. Mental Causes as predisposing to Consumption.
XVIII. The Influence of Unhappy Social Relations in predisposing Persons to Pulmonary Consumption.
XIX. Diseases which tend to produce, and which end in Consumption.
XX. Epidemic Catarrh, or Influenza.
XXI. Measles.
XXII. Diseases of the Nutritive Organs.
XXIII. Uterine Diseases, and their Influence in producing Consumption.
XXIV. Tubercular Consumption.
XXV. What is not the True Treatment for Pulmonary or Mesenteric Consumption.
We have no hesitation in recommending this work to the attention of every household.
SOUTHERN HATRED OF THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT, THE PEOPLE OF THE NORTH, AND FREE INSTITUTIONS. Boston: Published by R. F. Wallcut, 221 Washington Street. 1862.
This tract is supplemental to a tract of 24 duodecimo pages which was published last year by R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston, entitled "The Spirit of the Sooth towards Northern Freemen and Soldiers defending the American Flag against Traitors of the deepest Dye." As far as practicable, both of these tracts should be carefully bound together for future reference, and as a matter of historical importance. They furnish overwhelming evidence, drawn from Southern sources that it is not Abolitionism or Republicanism, per se, but against free institutions and the democratic theory of government universally, that the South has risen in rebellion for the overthrow of the American Union and the establishment of a hostile independent confederacy, based on oligarchic and slaveholding principles.
What delusion or hypocrisy it is, then, to represent that the South has no objection to anything at the North but its abolitionism!
RECOGNITION OF HAYTI AND LIBERIA. The Washington Globe contains a fall report of a very able and impressive speech made in the U. S. Senate on the 23d ult, by Hon. Charles Sumner, in favor of the recognition of the independence of Hayti and Liberia. To use his own expressive words:—" Slavery in the national capital is now abolished: it remains that this other triumph shall be achieved." Nothing but the away of a slaveholding despotism on the floor of Congress, hitherto, has prevented the adoption of this righteous measure; and now that that despotism has been exorcised, no time should be lost by Congress to see it carried into immediate execution. All other civilized nations have ceased to make complexion a badge of superiority or inferiority in the matter of nationality; and we should make haste, therefore, to repair the injury we have done, as a republic, in refusing to recognize Liberian and Haytian independence-
<c06>
WOLVES IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING.
MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR—I rejoice to see you continuing to serve the cause of universal truth and justice, not only by enlightening the mind and arousing the conscience of the people towards American slavery,-the one great shame of the civilized world,—"the sum of all villanies"; not only by holding the Government, the Church and the State, to a strict fulfilment of their legitimate and respective duties; not Only simply, by direct and positive loyalty to the principles of personal freedom, but otherwise and indirectly. By your faithful and consistent adherence to the measure of your moral standard, which a1one can justify the seemingly severe rebukes sometimes bestowed upon a faithless political, moral or <illegible> representative; by your trenchant criticisms on the falsities and perversions of the pro-slavery press: by your proper and necessary discrimination between principle and men; and lastly, though far removed from being least in its effects, by boldly and successfully unmasking those heartless hypocrites, who, under the shield of being public anti-slavery speakers are enabled to practise, with comparative security for a season, the worst phases of deception towards the innocent and confiding, wherever in any private home and for the sake of that cause, they may be kindly if not generously entertained; not least I say, are you serving the cause of universal truth and justice by your righteous exposure of those impostors who "steal the livery of heaven to serve the devil in those itinerant lecturers, who, by the aid of an only tongue and fair seeming words, basely impose on public credence and private confidence, by wholesale misrepresentations on the one hand, and criminal treachery on the other, in every community where they designedly locate.
I have been almost unconsciously led into this train of remark, by reading your public disclosure of the private conduct of Prof. CLARENCE BUTLER, with whom I have frequently conversed respecting his escape from Texas. I simply wish to confirm your views.
In a matter which has recently become more or less known, this man has shown there is to be no limits his meanness and hypocrisy. And as to the stories which he related to me, and which I have heard him substantially repeat in public—which, in fact, from the burden of his lectures—they essentially, fatally, differ and contradict those made to other parties, well known to you as persons of undoubted veracity and unimpeachable integrity, I now believe his whole account to be one of pure fiction. I question whether any such mobbing, so far as he was concerned, ever took place. I doubt if this is his real name—that he was obliged to leave England; and if he <illegible> driven from the South, it was not for similar transactions which he has been guilty of in these parts. I believe this, I repeat, and can wait for a few with to see if time will not prove all this, and even more of the same sort, to be unfortunately true.
Meanwhile, let the public beware of such men more particularly, let those families who are Christianly inclined towards entertaining strangers, and who wish to sacredly preserve the honor, virtue and purity of their homes, especially give this man all tin room there is outside their habitations!
For the separating the true from the false, in politics, morals and religion, I am
Fraternally yours, JUNIUS.
Springfield, April 19, 1862.

THE STRUGGLE A HOPEFUL ONE.
DEAR SIR—Please find herewith five dollars to pay for Liberator as long as it will last. By that time, I hope your paper will have become a mere luxury, and not a necessary of reading life. I trust, long before that time, the back of the Slave Power will most effectually broken. This war is fast opening the eyes of the Democratic kittens. It is true, they are as yet merely showing the fore part of their feet under contraband doctrine; but, after a few more battles, when the blood of the contending parties shall be <illegible> roused, I think these velvet contraband paws will be very likely to show the claws of emancipation. At any rate, I have faith to wait and see. All this turmoil and strife cannot pass without some good result. The Slave Power, as such, is the rebel power. There is another question between the contending parties; and although the Unionists are not, as a party, nor even generally as individuals, anti-slavery, yet they must fight the battle which has been joined for them, by One who is mightier than armies, and more potent than nations. If they fight at all, and they certainly give good evidence of intention, they must fight the Slave Power. If they conquer, they must conquer the Slave Power. When that shall be done, the non slave-owners will become a power in the Slave States; and although I do not expect emancipation, absolute and entire, as the immediate result of this rebellion, yet I think we shall soon see the beginning of the end. And, therefore, I feel a deep interest in the movements now going on, and can most conscientiously bid God-speed to all who engage in the war on our side, although many of them deny the faith for which they are contending. I am quite willing to accept their works without faith, and deem it much to be preferred to the faith of those who do not carry it out by works.
Hoping you may soon enjoy the pleasure of witnessing the beginning of the triumph of that freedom for which you have so long and effectually fought, and so persistently and eloquently spoken and written, I remain, Most truly, your friend,
Auburn, N. Y. D. W.

FROM A FREEDOM-LOVING SOLDIER 
FRIEND GARRISON-The light of heaven seems to be breaking in upon our hitherto dark and beclouded nation. Your noble speech in New York must have removed every ground of doubt from the public mind, and, with that of the godlike Wendell Phillips, gone home to the hearts of thousands of doubting Thomases, who could not but say, as he of old did-"My Lord and my God! "I had the pleasure it reading both of those speeches to the poor down-trodden Jen colored men of Roanoke, and of leaving the Liberator for them to read to others who might escape from their masters. Even while I have sat here writing, several colored women have come along, and I have given them three copies of the Liberator. Oh, if I had a lot of your books, I could sow the seeds of freedom broadcast over the soil of North Carolina! But my means are small, and thus a heart full freedom is kept from doing all the good it otherwise would do. I suppose it would be my death-warrant, or worse even, if possible, if I should be taken prisoner, and a copy of the Liberator should be found on my person; but I came out here to defend the cause of liberty, and if I die a martyr, then I shall feel that I have done my whole duty. This is my prayer, and that without ceasing, (for it is said that men should pray always without ceasing.) May God speed you and the noble friends of liberty as the angel-destroyers of slavery, and the angel-saviors of liberty, and hasten the triumph of liberty over the abominations of slavery! I have seen the horrors of war, and they are terrible; but the horrors of slavery far exceed those of war, for in war man loses this material body, while in slavery he loses his soul and body; yes, and those of his children, suffering the breaking up of the sacred bond of marriage, which no man should <illegible> asunder. 
I have written on this piece of paper because I have not been paid off, and hence have no money to buy with. This paper was taken from the rebels on <illegible> Island. My position in the army is simply a color-corporal, and I had the honor of first unfurling the Stars and Stripes on the Island.
Yours, for impartial freedom, which is the breaking of every yoke, 
Camp of—Regt., Mass Vol.,
near the City of Newborn, N. C.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE COLORED PEOPLE OF BOSTON ON COLONIZATION.
A large number of the colored citizens of Boston met in the Southac Street Church, on Monday evening last, to consider the subject of colonization. Robert Morris, Esq., presided, and Rev. J. Sella Martin presented for the consideration of the meeting the following resolutions:-
Whereas, certain interested parties have sent petitions to members of Congress, purporting to be the wished of the free colored people of the United States, asking for the setting apart of certain territories, either in the United States or elsewhere, for the purpose of colonizing the free colored people; and
Whereas, certain citizens of Liberia are said to have proposed to take charge and pay the passage of such persons as shall be expeiled from this country to Liberia; therefore,
Resolved, That we, the colored citizens of Boston, in convention assembled, being a part of the free colored citizens of the United States, take this method of expressing our most emphatic dissent from the two propositions referred to.
Resolved, That when we wish to leave the United States, we can find and pay for that territory which shall suit us best.
Resolved, That when we are ready to leave, we shall be able to pay our own expenses of travel.
Resolved, that we don't want to go now.
Resolved, That if anybody else wants us to go, they must compel us.
Resolved, That if they do seek our removal by compulsory measures, they are false to every principle of a republican government, it being as unjust to the citizens, and as destructive to a government, to drive away it loyal subjects, except as a punishment for crime, as it is for disloyal subjects to drag unwilling Union men into rebellion.
Resolved, That having fewer paupers and criminals among us than any other race, in proportion to our numbers, any compulsory measures of colonization would have no other ground of justification than prejudice against color; and such prejudice, when treed from the presence of complexions that were distasteful, would soon find food in the nationalities that are objectionable, thus eventually making the white man its victim as well as the negro.
Resolved, That industrial schemes and claims would be best promoted and secured, both in the North and in the South, by having two or more races to compete for employment, the competition of each making the other more faithful to the employers and more useful to themselves.
Resolved, That the citizens of Liberia or any other country have no right to bargain for the liberties of the colored citizens of America.
Resolved, That we would hate a government under which we were forced to live, as much as we dislike the colored men who join with the negro-haters to force us to leave the government.
Resolved, That the colored people of every city in the Northern States are hereby invited to give an expression of opinion, with respect to this important matter, as soon as possible.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forward to the Massachusetts delegation in congress.
Mr. Martin and William Wells Brown supported the resolutions, and they were adopted.
EMANCIPATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
This glorious historic event was made the theme of discourse in the colored churches of Boston last Sunday.
Rev. Mr. Talbot, of Zion Chapel, having resided a few years at Washington, gave an interesting chapter of his experience and observation.
Rev. J. Sella Martin delivered an impressive and eloquent address.
Rev. Leonard A. Grimes, from his stand-point of thirty years' residence at Washington, brought in review many reminiscences of the slave-pen, women whipping, auction-selling features of the peculiar institution; and as he rung the changes upon their enormities, these having for the last time been visible in the nation’s capital, the responses from a large audience were audible and frequent.
Throughout the city, and as far as heard from all over the land, there gushed forth from the grateful hearts of colored men and women their expressions of joy and thanksgiving for this inauguration of emancipation by President Lincoln, destined, ad they humbly trust, to spread out, and insure the healing of the nation. W.C.N.
EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM A.T.FOSS
WEST WILLIAMBURGH, (Ohio,)} April 15, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND MAY-I have been holding some very large and spirited meetings in this neighborhood. There are a few persona here, as well as in Pennsylvania, who are in great trouble, fearing that the Anti-Slavery cause is being taken down from its high ground of right to the level of Expediency. They cannot see how any sympathy with the Government, in its struggle with the Slave Power, can be other than a departure from the old doctrine of "a covenant with death and agreement with hell." I am trying hard, and I hope not without success, to show them that there is a difference between Lincoln fighting the Slave Power, and Lincoln sustaining the Salve Power; and that out sympathy is only with the first, while our hatred and abhorrence of the last are unabated and enduring.
I am sure the work of our Society was never more demanded, and certainly never so much appreciated. I do not mean in a pecuniary point of view, for the west is poor, but they hear with gladness the strongest denunciations against the Slave Power as the cause of the ward and the murderer of their dearest friends; for at almost every meeting I hold, there are stricken friends who mourn over their dear noble dead, and sometimes utter their wail of sorrow in the ear of the absorbed and sympathetic hearers. I feel the highest hope in regard to the condition of the slave. Out of this terrible war will his deliverance surely come. To me the bow of hope is bright upon the bosom of the cloud of war.
Yours, truly, A.T. FOSS
NEW MUSIC. The following pieces have just been published by Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street:-
1. Cujus Animam-Stabat Mater. Transcription for the Piano, by Brinley Richards.
2. Within a Mile of Edinburgh Town. By Adolph Baumbach.
3. Are they meant but to deceive me? Mazurka Polonoise, for voice or piano, by Alexander Reichardt.
4. Maraquita. A Portuguese Love Song. Words and music by the Hon. Mrs. Norton.
5. Pictures of the War. A Collection of Descriptive Pieces. Arranged for the piano forte by Charles Grobe. No. 1 Battle of Winchester. 2. Battle of Newbern. 3. Battle of Pea Ridge.
6. West End Polka. By Charles D'Albert.
7. "Jerusalem! thou that killest the Prophets." Oratorio of St. Paul by Mendelssohn."
8. Negro Boatman's Song. Words by Whittier, from the Atlantic Monthly. Music by Edward Wiebe.
MADAME GEFFRARD. The following item is for the special benefit of those who have such a notion of the. " inferiority" of the negro race that they assent to the Dred Scott dictum, that negroes have no rights which white men are bound to respect:-
"A private letter from Seth, Webb, Jr. U.S. Commercial Agent at port au Prince says: 'Madame Geffrard, the wife of the President of Hayti, with her daughter, Mademoiselle Zaila Geffrard, will visit New York in May in the Haytien man-of-war, the 'Twenty-second of December,' on their way to Paris, were Madame Geffrard has two daughters at school. They are highly educated and refined people, and I hope they will meet a proper reception from our country men."
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE PORT ROYAL CONTRABANDS.
Letters received by the Educational Commission of Boston from teachers employed at Port Royal and its vicinity, speak very encouragingly of the present condition and the capabilities and disposition of the numerous negro population of the Port Royal Islands. The negroes are busily employed in planting cotton, corn and potatoes, laboring cheerfully for slight pecuniary rewards, and manifesting a tractable, obedient, deferential spirit, which has deeply impressed the white teachers who are striving to tit them to take care of themselves. In some plantations they had planted sufficient corn to meet their own wants before the government undertook to direct their labors. Some of them are very intelligent on practical matters, and manage the affairs of the plantations to which they belong with much skill. They all manifest an eager desire to learn to read, and make excellent progress. Old negroes, sixty or seventy years of age, press forward to be taught. The teachers speak of their pupils as apt and fast learners. One says that in three months his will be able to read the New Testament. Several plantations, comprising four to six hundred negroes, are placed under the care of each teacher. The contrabands are still much in need of clothing, and the letters all request that contributions be sent to them, but ask that the materials, rather than ready-made garments be sent, as the negresses manifest a laudable pride and considerable skill in making clothing for themselves and families, and it is desirable that their industry in this direction should be encouraged; at the same time, much better fitting garments are produced. The clothing is not given to the negroes, but furnished in return for labor performed. They are made distinctly to understand that they must labor for all that they receive, and must work in order to support themselves. Besides clothing, salt, (of which they stand in much need,) tobacco, sugar, and salt meats are required for the use of the contrabands; and all these articles must be voluntarily contributed, as the blacks have no way of making payment except in labor on the spot. The negroes not only behave with marked propriety towards their white teachers, but manifest a kind and polite demeanor in their intercourse among themselves. The crops of cotton, &c., will be small this season, as the planting was begun late and military operations greatly unsettled the negroes. The teachers are favorably regarded by the army and military authorities, the climate of the island is excellent, and altogether the Port Royal mission seems to be a very pleasant and hopeful field for missionary labor. For the information of those who would like to aid in this noble effort to benefit the liberated slaves, we will state that Governor Andrew is President of the Educational Commission, Wm. Endicott, jr., Treasurer, and Edward Atkinson, Secretary.—Boston Journal.
REFUGEES AT NEWBERN, N. C.
Mr. Vincent Collier, an agent of the New York Young Men's Christian Association, in a letter from Newbern, April 2d, says: "I have now on my hands to feed, find shelter and occupation for, full one thousand colored people-men, women and children. I had two hundred and thirty able-bodied men to breakfast at my house this morning. Each of these men is to receive eight dollars a month, board and clothes. The General sent an order for me to employ as many as I could find, up to the number of five thousand, at the above wages. I have been appointed" Superintendent of the Poor," and under this heading I am doing the work. The men are mostly employed in the trenches. In the duties of my new office, I have to see to and supply the wants of the suffering population-the town's people-whites as well as blacks. I have come sixty families of the whites; many of the white people are very poor and ignorant, and, I think the most pitiable objects of charity I have ever seen. As a white man, I am ashamed to say they are really more abject and degraded than the blacks. I never realized so much before the dignity that the mere ability and willingness to labor give a man. The blacks having always been forced to work, although lazy, generally ask for and go to work; while, too often, the white, having been taught to regard work as degrading, allows himself to sit in laziness and sink down into utter helplessness. The consequence can easily be imagined; in a time like the present, he who can and will work is getting it to do, and with it his reward, prosperity and plenty; and they who will not, (or 'cannot’,) become dependent. Most of the negro women get work at the hospitals, washing and the peddling of cakes, and earn a support in this way. We gave them a lift at first with a few pounds of flour, and so far, immediately on their arrival, they have ''been able to find a house to live in. When they arrive, it is usually in groups of ten or twenty, often all from one plantation. They had travelled, in some cases, long distances. I had one poor negro of about twenty-five, who had come over sixty miles. His feet were all bloody, and the first thing he could do after he had reported his name for work and had had a breakfast, was to lie down and sleep; for two or three days he was quite sick. At the end of that time he went to work, and is now doing his best to support the United States Government with 'de shobel and d hoe.' He gave valuable information to the Government."
THANKS FOR EMANCIPATION. Rev. Thomas II. Stockton, Chaplain, made the following prayer in the U. S. House of Representatives on the 17th ult.:—
"We thank Thee for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. We thank Thee for the emancipation of slaves in the Capital of our country. We thank Thee that our soil is now free from slavery, and that this air is now free air, and so shall remain forever. We accept this great blessing, not as the result of human manifestation-not as a matter of party policy—but as a Divine intervention-as a development of another form of confirmation of Thy great and glorious purpose, to carry on and complete the whole work of human redemption. Therefore we bless and magnify Thy most excellent name, uniting with the churches of all lands, and of all ages, in saying: Glory be unto the Father, and unto the Son, and unto the Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end!"
Col Forney alludes to the conduct of the colored persons released from bondage in the following terms:—
"It is interesting to watch the disposition of these manumitted slaves, and their services as laborers and Assistants to our Generals. The deception practised by white spies has become so common and so chronic as to render the most of their information unworthy of trust. In certain cases, they have been the authors of inconceivable mischief and misery. It is different with the slaves. They have repeatedly shown, and are repeatedly showing, how entirely they may be confided in. There is not a general officer in the Union service who will not testify that his best intelligence of the movements of the enemy, and of the topography of the seceding country, has come from the blacks. These poor people seem everywhere to feel that it is their duty to show their gratitude to the soldiers of the Republic. A very distinguished officer, who has been stationed far beyond Mount Vernon, on the Lower Potomac, in Maryland, and who, until he took the field, was an uncompromising friend of the South, and of the Southern school of leaders, gives some thrilling accounts of the fidelity and bravery of the slaves in the neighborhood of his command. He says he was never once deceived by them. 'They knew the forests around them as the seamen know the sea."
The first decision given, under the new Emancipation Law for the District of Columbia was on Monday last, when Judge Purcell, in a case wherein the custody of a child of a slave was in dispute, declared that the father was entitled to the possession under the bill for the abolition of slavery in the district.
Brigadier-General Doubleday, stationed near Washington, has issued an order directing that all negroes coming into the lines of any of the camps or forts under his command, are to be treated as persons and not as chattels. His opinion of the expediency of admitting contrabands within the camp is thus given:-
"The General is of the opinion that they bring much valuable information, which cannot be obtained from any other source. They are acquainted with all the roads, paths, fords and other natural features of the country, and they make excellent guides. They also know and frequently have exposed the haunts of secession spies and traitors, and the existence of rebel organizations."
The General's opinion is sustained by the experience of many other officers. The expedition against Apalachicola found the negro guides very useful.
Major General Hunter has issued the following order, with reference to a portion of the "contrabands" within his jurisdiction:-
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH FORT PULASKI, Cockspur Island, Ga.,
April 13,1862
All persons of color lately held to involuntary service by enemies of the United States, in Fort Pulaski and on Cockspur Island, Ga., are hereby confiscated and declared free, in conformity with law, and shall hereafter receive the fruits of their own labor. Such of said persons of color as are able-bodied, and may be required, shall be employed in the Quartermaster's Department, at the rates heretofore established by Brigadier General T. W. Sherman.
By command of Major General David Hunter.
CHARLES G. HALPINE, Assistant Adjutant General.
General Hunter is also preparing a list of owners of negroes on the abandoned Sea Island plantations, and if they do not prove themselves to be loyal within a specified time, he will declare their negroes confiscated.
<c03>
ARREST OF COL. C. R. JENNISON AND LIEUT. HOYT.
ST. LOUIS, April 20,1862.
Another beautiful result of placing Pro-Slavery officers to domineer over well-known Anti-Slavery soldiers is shown in the arrest of Col. C. R. Jennison of the 2d Kansas Cavalry (and Acting Brigadier-General) by order of General Sturgis. Col. Jennison was arrested in Leavenworth City on Thursday last. Lieut. Hoyt of the same regiment was arrested the same day. Both were placed in close confinement in the fort, in charge of Capt. Prince, one of their worst enemies. These arrests excited great commotion in Leavenworth, and all classes of citizens were deeply excited. A few citizens, determined that the parties should have justice, authorized Jennison to draw on the banking firm of Clark, Gruber & Co. for $4,000 to pay his legal and personal expenses. That night, at 9 o'clock, Col. Jennison was hurried across the river to Weston, and taken to St. Joseph, where, in company with an' officer in charge, he took the cars for St Louis. No opportunity was given him to see his family, and his friends allege that he was not even permitted to secure a change of linen. Yesterday morning, Colonel Jenuison arrived in this city, and was placed in the military prison by the Provost-Marshal-General, according to orders.
There was considerable excitement among the Pro-Slavery clique in this city, on hearing of Jennison's arrival, and the Republican, this morning, without pretending to know any of the causes of his arrest, or the circumstances which led to it, justifies the rigorous treatment by a sweeping declaration that Col. Jennison's antecedents justify the course of the authorities. No charges have as yet been furnished to Col. Jennison, and he is entirely ignorant of the specifications designed to be urged against him. It is not improbable, however, that the pretext upon which he has been arrested is using disrespectful language toward his superior officers, in a public speech. Col. Jennison lately resigned the command of his regiment, and publicly declared that he could no longer conscientiously serve under the command of those appointed at the head of military operations in Kansas. His exact language has not been reported, but it is averred that there was no attempt to charge disloyalty upon his superior officers, but merely a general statement that their views of the proper policy to be pursued in carrying on the war differed so widely from his, that he declined to serve under them. The same reasons were given by Lieut. Hoyt, as the cause of his resignation.
The arrest of Col. Jennison and Lieut. Hoyt is not the only step taken in Kansas to degrade the Anti-Slavery officers who have enlisted in the service of the Government in the belief that Secessionists should be hurt in order to suppress Rebellion. A gentleman from Kansas informs your correspondent that the command of Col. Montgomery has been taken from him, and the Colonel dismissed from the service. The same course has been pursued toward Col. Weer, another Anti-Slavery man. John Brown, Jr., has tendered his resignation as captain of the company to which Lieut. Hoyt belongs.
In short, every prominent officer connected with the Kansas troops who has identified himself with the opposition to slavery, has been shoved aside and humiliated by Gens. Denver and Sturgis. It is not surprising the officers feel unwilling to serve any longer. The Kansas regiments will be demoralized by these acts beyond power of redemption. In Col. Jennison's regiment there are between twenty and thirty men who, with Jennison himself, have lain in open fields and concealed in woods for days and weeks, to avoid the slave-hounds sent after them by Denver while he was Governor of Kansas. Can it be expected these men will respect Gen. Denver simply because he wears again the livery of Uncle Sam? They despised him then, and they will not love him now. The Free State men of Kansas are more disheartened by these events than anything that has ever crossed their history.-St. Louis correspondent of the yew York Tribune.
The Chicago Tribune explains that the difficulty about Jennison originates from a difference with his superiors, viz.:-
"Jennison was educated to hate slavery, and when rescued Kansas rose from the struggle and began her career of freedom, out of her fiery trial learned a lesson more general in its bearing. Her history gave a key to the designs of slavery against the entire nation. Col. Jennison is an Abolitionist. Not so are Denver and Sturgis. They love slavery, and rather than that it should perish, would draw their swords and point their artillery upon the government itself. We do not overstate the- pro-slavery zeal of these officers."
RESIGNED. We regret to learn that Col. Jennison has resigned. He has already done more real service than three-fourths of the Brigadier-Generals who have thus far been appointed, and on account of his energy and the unsparing manner in which he deals with rebels, his resignation will be a decided loss to the cause.-Freedom's Champion, Atchison, Kansas.
ST. LOUIS, April 25. An order has been issued for the release of Col- Jennison from military arrest, he giving bonds in $20,000 to appear and answer to whatever charges may be produced against him. The particular offence which led to Jennison's arrest has not been made public, but it is presumed all the facts will be shortly forthcoming. Jennison, on being arrested, immediately resigned his post in the army.
We published the following paragraph yesterday:-
Yesterday afternoon, Lieutenant Speed came down from the fort with an order on Provost Marshal Lieut. Col. John A. Martin, for a detail of ten men and a sergeant to secure the arrest of Col. C. R. Jennison, and Lieut. Geo. H. Hoyt, of Jennison's regiment. The order was signed by Major W. E. Prince, by order of Brig. Gen. S. D. Sturgis, was peremptory, with instructions that Col. Jennison and Lieut. Hoyt be arrested separately, kept in close confinement, and not allowed to communicate with each other or with anybody else. Lieut. Hoyt was first arrested. Col. Jennison an hour or two later. The services of the Provost Guard were not called into play, as both prisoners expressed their perfect willingness to comply with the order, and left for the fort in charge of Lieut. Speed about 4 o'clock.
Time will demonstrate what all this means.
These officers were arrested as stated above. In the night, Col. Jennison was taken by a guard of one Lieutenant, one sergeant, and four privates, armed with muskets, to Weston, to take the train which leaves for St. Louis at 3 o'clock in the morning.
While there he wrote us a note, a part of which is copied below:-
"WESTON, Mo.
"I arrived at this place at 10 o'clock, on my way to St. Louis.
I am entirely ignorant of the cause of my arrest. To arrest a Colonel, and place him in close confinement, without preferring charges against him, is a thing I never heard of.
If I am arrested simply because I am in favor of freedom, then so be it. C. R. JENNISON."
It is now understood that the real destination of Col. Jennison is not St. Louis, but the Alton Penitentiary.
On the 11th inst. Col. Jennison resigned the command of the First Kansas Cavalry. 'On statements received from him, we published that morning the following announcement:-
"We learn from reliable authority that Col. Jennison will resign to-day. This act, which will be regretted by thousands of people in other States as well as in this, has been taken by this gallant officer because he cannot conscientiously serve under the Government so long as it pursues a pro-slavery policy in this District. He says he will not serve under men opposed to Kansas and opposed to freedom."
Another reason given in his letter of resignation was feeble health, and it is well known here that his health has been failing for some months. When told by the guard on Thursday night that he was to be kept in close confinement, and could hold no communication with his friends, Col. Jennison fainted. The people of Kansas, whose homes and liberties he has so long defended, need not be told that sickness and exposure alone could make Col. Jennison show signs of weakness.
We have not heard that any charges whatever have been preferred against Col. Jennison. His crime cannot be the form of his resignation, for we learn that the resignation was accepted yesterday, It cannot be his Missouri campaign, about which the pro-slavery papers raised such a howl, for General Hunter gave it his cordial approval, and made him an acting Brigadier General.
Lieut Hoyt is still at the Fort, or was yesterday, but his friends have not been allowed to speak to him.
The following letter from Col. Jennison has been received by a gentleman of Boston :—
MILITARY PRISON, St. Louis, April 21, 1862.
FRIEND STEARNS-Sir: You may think strange when I tell you-that on Saturday, the 18th, Lieut. George Hoyt and myself were arrested by order of our pro-slavery Generals Sturgis and Denver. What the charges are is more than I can tell. I demanded to know the charges, and by what authority it was done. We were treated more like brutes than human beings. We were arrested, taken to Fort Leaven-worth, confined in a filthy dungeon without fire, without a table, without a chair. There I left that true boy, George Hoyt. From there I was sent to this city, and to my surprise I am confined in a dungeon formerly occupied as "Negro Corrall." The whole city of St. Louis is with me. They all tee the outrageous treatment put upon me, and all because I am an abolitionist. I may be confined daring the war, bat I shall still be an abolitionist.
Give my best regards to all. Write me. Direct to 5th street Military Prison, St. Look, Mo.
(Signed) C.R. JENNISON.
<c04>
A SAD PICTURE OF AFFAIRS IN KANSAS. The Chicago Tribune says:-
"Startling as it may appear, the young State of Kansas has again fallen upon evil days, and is again at the mercy of her worst enemies. Martial law exists over the entire State, and Gen. Samuel D. Sturgis, who would himself have been a rebel but for his 'soldier's honor,' is the chief persecutor of the realm.
He is ably seconded by Gen. Robert B. Mitchell, years ago a leader of Missouri border ruffians; by Gen. James Denver, who was Buchanan's Governor to thrust Lecompton upon the people; and by Got. Charles Robinson, himself morally and politically bankrupt, and even now under impeachment of his State Legislature.
Our letters and exchanges from Kansas all bring the same doleful story of a reign of terror for anti-slavery men, and with one accord foretell a gathering storm of fearful portent. The plot is to demoralize and degrade Kansas; to banish the old guard of freedom; and if not to bring in slavery itself, at least to make Kansas pro-slavery in sentiment."
Is THIS HUMAN? Hon. James W. Grimes, Senator from Iowa, in a speech on the surrender of slaves by Army officers, delivered on the 14th inst, makes the following statement:-
"In the month of February last, an officer of the 3d Regiment of Iowa Infantry, stationed at a small town in Missouri, succeeded in capturing several Rebel bridge-burners, and some recruiting officers belonging to Price's army. The information that led to their capture was furnished by two or three remarkably shrewd and intelligent slaves, claimed by a Lieutenant' Colonel in the Rebel army. Shortly afterward, the master dispatched an agent, with instructions to seize the slaves and convey them within the Rebel linos, whereupon the Iowa officer himself seized them, and reported the circumstances to headquarters. The slaves soon understanding the full import of Gen. Halleck's celebrated Order No. 8, two of them attempted an escape. This was regarded as an unpardonable sin. The Iowa officer was immediately placed under arrest, and a detachment of the Missouri State Militia-men in the pay of this Government, and under the command of Gen. Halleck-were sent in pursuit of the fugitives. The hunt was successful. The slaves were caught and returned to their traitor master, but not until one of them had been shot by order of the soldier in command of the pursuing party."
We ask all who believe in a just God to decide whether the Union cause might to triumph if it is only to be upheld by such means as these. And we ask the Albany Evening Journal whether the slaves ought to brave their masters' vengeance in efforts for the Union cause while "such is their reward.-Tribune.
MATCHLESS BARBARITY. We were conversing, within a day or two, with a Reformed Dutch Clergyman, who resides in this "neighborhood, and he made us the following remarkable statement, which he had received in a letter from one of his sons, who was in battle both at Roanoke and Newbern. As it devolved upon him to carry the flag, he was obliged to go three yards in advance of the rest, and was in the most exposed situation that could be assigned to him. The day after the battle which resulted in the taking of Newbern, a brawny, tiger-like looking fellow, from the Southwest, came up to him and said: "You may thank God Almighty that you are not a dead man; for five or six men, besides myself, all of whom are first-rate marksmen, fired at you yesterday, and not a single ball took effect." The young man noticed as he was conversing with them, that he and the rest of the prisoners about him had hanging behind them, and partially concealed under their coats, a large knife of very peculiar formation, and he inquired what that knife was for. The answer was, "We had orders to cut the throat of every Wounded Yankee soldier with it that we came across!" Surely, we are not fighting with "tigers," but with fiends!-Albany Eve. Journal
REBEL BARBARITY. An Albany correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser relates another instance of rebel barbarity thus:-
"I have before me a letter from a young relative who is attached to an artillery regiment as an officer, and who was at Manassas and Centreville since the evacuation of those places by the rebels. He says there were wooden guns in place at Manassas; that on one of the camp huts was a notice " to any d-d Yankee" who might occupy it, that its erection had cost some money and time, and that the Yankee aforesaid would find a pair of human ribs taken from the body of a cursed Yankee who had been shot, and that having polished them up and used them as castanets, he had left them for the use and amusement of his Yankee successor. These human ribs were found hanging up on the inside of the hut, as specified in the notice. Can more disgraceful and degrading barbarism than this be. imagined?"
A SECESSION TROPHY. The following, says the Cincinnati Gazette, is the copy of a letter found on a rebel soldier captured at Bowling Green. In it was the ring so particularly spoken of. It illustrates the chivalric spirit and the scholarship of the masses who compose the secession forces. The letter and ring were sent us by a member of a Cincinnati regiment:
"to Sis: this ring was made by roe the lead was A bullet that killed colonel Slocum of the 71st N. Y. regiment. I taken this out of his head my self and made this ring out of it. Sis you will keep this for me until I return and if you keep it for me you will oblige me and if I never live to get back sis keep it in memory of me dont loose it if I live to get back I intend to have it plated and if I never do get back sis you will have it plated and keep it the bullet that killed Colonel Slocum of the 71st New York regiment he was a brave man but on the wrong side A hotheaded Abolitionist so Enough About the ring."
The reports of barbarities inflicted upon our dead at Bull Run have not been exaggerated. The rebels dug up the remains of our soldiers, made spurs of the jawbones, and cut up the skeletons into every conceivable form, and sent the trinkets home to their families.
Contrabands are flocking in by scores, many possessing valuable information. They state that the rebels had a regiment of mounted negroes, armed with sabres, at Manassas, and the regiment is still in service in the vicinity of Gordonsville.-Washington telegram to the New York papers.
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., April 13, 1862. To-day I really feel like exulting. We have achieved a victory which, although bloodless, must be attended by such important results as can hardly be overestimated. The main line, and-for all practical military purposes the only line of communication, between the Eastern and Western armies of the enemy, is in our hands. To Gen. Mitchel and his brave troops belong the distinguished honor of being the first to penetrate to the great Charleston and Memphis Railroad, and the first to break through the Rebels' boasted line of defence, extending from Chattanooga to Corinth.
[Going west from Huntsville in the cars with the troops, the writer says]:-
The negroes were gathered in masses all along the road. As the cars passed they bowed, they scraped, they grinned, they pulled off their hats, and in every way tried to secure a recognition from those whom they considered their friends. Occasionally a generous-hearted soldier would wave his hand or flourish his sword to them, and then their child-like manifestations of delight literally knew no bounds.
Whenever the train stopped, the colored people would climb on board, and beg to. be taken along One sad, earnest face peeped into the door of the car in which I was sitting, and its owner put up the usual petition. "Get down," said an officer on board; "get down and go to your master; we cannot take you." The slave shuddered at the word "master." "O for de good God's sake, "said he, "let me go wid you and wait on you all!" There was a perceptible tremor in the officer's voice as he repeated his command to the negro, and I saw that a tear was stealing down the check of a rough dragoon, who sat upon a seat jus opposite to me.-Correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune.
RECOGNITTION OF HAYTI AND LIBERIA. The following important bill passed the Senate on the 24th ult.:-
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled: That the President of the United States be and he hereby is, authorized, by and with the consent of the Senate, to appoint diplomatic representatives of the United States to the republics of Hayti and Liberia, respectively. Each of the said representatives so appointed shall be accredited as commissioner and consul general, and shall receive, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, the compensation of commissioners provided for by the act of Congress approved August 18, 1856: Provided, That the compensation of the representative at Liberia shall not exceed $4,000.
RING OF THE TRUE LOCOFOCO METAL. One of the straight Democratic tickets, voted at our charter election, had endorsed upon its buck the words-" I am in favor of shivery in Michigan." The ballot was voted by one of the prominent Locofoco leaders of this city and was a fair expression of the secret sentiments of his party leaders.-Grand Rapids Eagle.
WOMAN'S VOICE FOR FREEDOM. On Monday the 14th ult. Mr. Sumner, in the U. S. Senate, presented a petition 700 feet long signed by 15,000 women praying for the abolition of slavery. A similar petition, of the same length and with the same number o signatures, was presented, on the same day, in the House of Representatives, by Mr. Kelley, of Pennsylvania.
<c05>
CAPTURE OF NEW ORLEANS.
FORTRESS MOPNROE, April 29.
To Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
The following appears in the Richmond Dispatch of the 28th inst:
"The fearful state of suspense in which this city has existed" for two or three days has at last ended. New Orleans is in possession of the enemy.
It was evacuated by Gen. Lovell who has removed his forces to Camp Moore on the Jackson Railroad."
(Signed) JOHN E. WOOL, Major General.
CHICAGO, April 29. A special despatch to the Times from Fort Wright 28th, says:-
From deserters I learn that New Orleans is in Capt. Porter's quiet possession. The Federal fleet had passed Fort Jackson on Thursday, after a desperate naval engagement, in which one vessel was sunk and several badly damaged. It is supposed that the Federal loss is very heavy. The rebel loss is 60 killed 184 wounded. The engagement lasted part of two days. The Federals took possession of the city without a struggle. On Friday the rebel force evacuated the city, after destroying all the steamers which they had no use for. They took with them the greater part of the military stores in the city. The Union citizens were very jubilant.
WASHINGTON, April 27.-The news from New Orleans, which has come through several rebel sources, is deemed here to be of the utmost importance. What Old England has failed to do with all her power, has been handsomely accomplished by New England. The manner in which the success at Forts Jackson and St. Philip was followed up is highly commended. In 30 hours our brave men consummated their victory and appeared before the great city of the Southwest to receive its submission. This is but a foretaste of Southwestern operations. No mention is made by the rebel papers of their iron-clad turtles and rams, that were to annihilate the Yankee fleet, which leads to a suspicion that the common estimate of the rebel motive power from their own misrepresentations has been a mistake. It is pretty clear that on this occasion they could not stop to conceal the truth.
WHY SAVANNAH WAS NOT TAKEN. Gen. Sherman has arrived here, and his case is very widely and thoroughly discussed. Why did he not take Savannah? He had a private meeting with the Rhode Island delegation a few days since, and exhibited to them Gen. McClellan's order prohibiting him from making any attempt on that city! This is a positive fact, and he is obliged to make it known to save his own reputation. Very many people in this vicinity have been inclined to blame Sherman because of his slackness before Savannah. He says that when he was ready to do something, Com. Depont refused to co-operate with him. That finally that difficulty was arranged, a siege train had been sent him from the North, and all was ready, when the explicit order to desist from all operations against Savannah came from Gen. McClellan.-Wash. Cor. Springfield Repub.
GENERAL BUELL. This General has been very tender in his treatment of rebels, and very tardy in all his military movements; and in view of his recent and inexcusable failure to move forward promptly to the support of Gen. Grant, it cannot be denied that the interests of the cause require that he, at least, should be relieved of his command. Had it not been for the determined and obstinate bravery of our troops, and the assistance rendered by the gunboats, the gallant army under Grant would have been annihilated before Gen. Buell arrived. Is he one of the "Golden Circle" Generals? There is too much reason to fear that the enemy have many allies and sympathizers in our army and navy, and some of them occupying high positions, also.-Freedom's Champion, Atchison, Kansas.
DEATH OF GEN. C. F. SMITH. The army of the Union has met with a great loss in the death of Major General Charles F. Smith, which occurred at Savannah, Tenn., last week. On the 31st of August, 1861, he was made a Brigadier General of Volunteers, and took charge under Gen. Halleck of the troops at Paducah. His gallant charge decided the day at the battle of Fort Donelson, and secured his promotion to a Major Generalship. For a time he was in command of the army now at Pittsburg. His ill health detained him from taking part in the late battle.
Major Talbot, one of the heroes of Fort Sumter, died in New York on Wednesday evening. He acted as first lieutenant when Sumter was attacked, but was promoted after that event. He was thirty-eight years of age, and bore the reputation of being au accomplished man and a gallant officer.
In the Senate, Friday, April 25, Mr. Sherman presented a resolution of the Legislature of Ohio concerning the rebel prisoners at Columbus, saying that the feelings of the loyal people of Ohio are outraged by the fact that the rebel prisoners are allowed to retain their slaves by Col. Moody, thus practically establishing slavery in Ohio. Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, said he would call the matter up on Monday.
Gen. Grant reports that he has buried over 4000 dead soldiers. There is no doubt that the rebels lost many more in killed than we did, for our men fired to kill, and theirs to wound, and both carried out their orders to the letter. Our troops have collected 10,000 stand of arms thrown away by the rebels.
THE VOTE IN WESTERN VIRGINIA The Wheeling Intelligencer publishes the official vote of fifty-one counties of Western Virginia on the new constitution and emancipation. The aggregate is 16,797 for and 441 against the new constitution, and 6052 for and 618 against emancipation. Majority in fifty-one counties for the constitution, 16,356; for emancipation, 5434.
SAD. Gov. Louis P. Harvey, of Wisconsin, who had gone to Savannah with hospital stores, and to look after the Wisconsin dead and wounded, was drowned on Saturday evening while stepping from one boat to another.
Refugees report that Gen. Villifrique is still in command at Fort Wright, and has a force of 6000 or 8000 men. The guns from Fort Randolph have been taken there. A large number of negroes arc constantly at work, strengthening the fortifications.
The slave-owners of Prince George and Surrey counties, Va., have been compelled to put one half their negroes between the ages of sixteen and fifty years to work upon the rebel fortifications near Williamsburg, where Magruder and his army are stationed. Some people think it a terrible business for the Union army to employ slaves in digging entrenchments, but can see no harm in their laboring for the secessionists—and yet these men are called loyal.
Slavery is practically abolished in Prince George's county in Maryland. The slaves (says a correspondent) are running away in large numbers there is scarcely a plantation but has suffered. Companies of from five to fifty can be seen daily wending their way towards Washington, and wandering over Maryland seeking employment where they can be paid for their work. Their owners say it is becoming useless to go after them when they leave, as they will not remain when brought back, but refuse to work and on the first opportunity showing itself are off again.
An eminent American, formerly a Democrat, who has for some time past resided in Europe, writes the Tribune a letter, from which we quote as follows :-
"We are crazy if we preserve the status of slavery. I should as soon think of preserving a mad dog that had bitten and killed my children."
NEW YORK, April 28. Letters from Edisto Island, S. C, report a brilliant skirmish between 60 of our men and 200 of the enemy on St. Johns Island.
Our men had a howitzer from the gunboat Crusader. Fifty of the enemy were killed and wounded. Our force consisted of 30 sailors from the Crusader and 30 soldiers from the 3d N. H., 47th N. Y. and 55th Penn. regiments.
New York, April 25. Reliable information places General Lee in command of the rebels at Yorktown. Johnston did not remain. All the rebel stores, ammunition, baggage, &c, have been moved three miles to the rear of Yorktown.
Contrabands say the rebels bad near two hundred killed and wounded in the recent affair at Lee's Mills. A gang of 8000 negroes, who were at work on the dam, had twelve killed, and were stampeded by oar shells, and had to be forced back with the bayonet.
A letter from Yorktown 25th, in the New York Post, remarks :—
"A rebel deserter to-day reported that we have killed one rebel Brigadier General, two Captains and several Lieutenants since we have been in front of Yorktown. The number of killed and wounded is withheld from the rebel troops, but it is large, and many of the enemy are hit by our artillery and sharpshooters each day."
Every port on the coast of Florida, except Tampa has been evacuated by the rebels.
The colored people of the District of Colombia have set apart the first day of May as a day of Thanksgiving for the passage of the Emancipation Bill.
St. JOHNS N. F., April 28. A deputation from the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society waited upon Mr. Adams, the American Minister, on the l6th, and presented an address, in which the hope is expressed that the restoration of the Union would be founded upon the abolition of the true cause of the strife. The reply of Mr. Adam is described as having been very satisfactory to the deputation, but the Times thinks it indicates the policy of Northern politicians, which is to have the liberty to deal according to circumstances with the slavery question.
<c06>
LECTURE OF MISS ANNA E: DICKINSON. The meeting in the Unitarian church, last evening, was very largely attended, every part of the church being crowded, and number being obliged to go away without being able to gain admission.
Miss Dickinson is a young lady of very agreeable; personal appearance. She is a forcible and impressive speaker. Her discourse was very well arranged, her choice of words excellent, and many passages both eloquent and pathetic. She traced the origin of the civil war to slavery, and showed how the Slave Power had always succeeded in its policy in behalf of that institution, from the adoption of the declaration of Independence down to the election of Lincoln. The main portion of her address was the urging of the emancipation of the slaves as step demanded both by justice, humanity, and the necessities of our condition, and the argument was one to which it would be difficult to reply. The general impression produced was a highly favorable one, and we understand it is proposed to invite her to speak here again. -New Bedford Standard, April28th.
THE ARREST OF GEN. STONE AUTHORIZED BY THE PRESIDENT. Washington, April 29th. To-day the President sent a special message to the Senate, stating that he authorized the arrest of Gen. Stone, for sufficient cause; that the delay in the trial of the accused is caused by the fact that the witnesses are now in active service in the army before Yorktown, and that an examination of the case will be had when not incompatible with the public interests.
 What will the Courier and Post say now?
WHY GEN STONE IS NOT TRIED. Is it possible that any man cannot understand why Gen. Stone is not granted an instant trial? The witnesses he would summon are to-day on the field of battle. He would call Gen. McClellan as one of his witnesses—can the Government spare him from Yorktown? On both sides, not less than one hundred army officers would be called as witnesses. Is it not easy to see that they cannot now be spared? The trial will occur at the earliest possible moment—Washington Republican.
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.—The tenth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on FIFTH DAY, (Thursday,) the fifth of Sixth month, (June,) 1862.
This annual assemblage is held for religious communion, for mutual interchange of thought and opinion, for the perpetuation of old friendships and the formation of new; in brief, for a festival of two or three days of social, intellectual, and spiritual fellowship and profit. The members of this Religious Society do not hold their membership by virtue of any ecclesiastical vows or bonds, or of any real or supposed unity of theological belief. Their common faith, if it were written, would be simply and only the essential principle of love to God—a love to be exhibited, not through devotion to creeds and forms, but in lives of purity and beneficence, in the recognition and defence of the equal rights of mankind, in efforts to break the chains of the oppressed, and in a firm resistance to every form of iniquity and wrong.
Such being the spirit and aims of the Progressive Friends, the Slaveholders' Rebellion, its causes and consequences, and the means by which alone it can be effectually put down, will naturally engage no small share of the attention of the Yearly Meeting; and it cannot be doubted that, with an earnestness and solemnity worthy of the crisis, it will seek to persuade the people and the government to avert the calamities of civil war, and open up the only path to permanent peace and prosperity, by "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."
To all persons who cherish the spirit and principles above set forth, we extend a cordial invitation to meet and cooperate with the Society.
Oliver Johnson, Issac Mendenhall,
Joseph A. Dugdale, Sarah Marsh Barnard,
Elizabeth Jackson, Lydia Irish,
Sumner Stebbins, Jennie K. Smith
William Barnard, Ellen Angier,
Hannah Cox, Aaron Mendenhall,
Dinah Mendenhall, Sallie Howell,
Josiah Wilson, Samuel B. Underhill,
Ruth Dugdale, Philena Heald,
Annie M. Stambeach, Ellie H. Mendenball,
Mary P. Wilson, Eusebius Barnard.
NOTICE.—All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington St., Boston.
Many of the best and most recent publications of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to be made as above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send hem.
NOTICE.—Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
REMOVAL.—DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.—MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM.SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No.23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M.
March 28 3 m
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WEARE, N. H.—PARKER PILSBURY will lecture in North Weare, N. II., on Saturday evening next, and at South Weare on Sunday next, afternoon and evening.
MISS ANNA B. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will speak in QUINCY, at Johnson's Hall, on Sunday next, May 4, at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M., and 2 3-4 o'clock, P. M.
MARRIED—In Portland, (Me.) April 23, Mr. JAMES HAWLEY to Miss ANNIS CAMPBELL.
In Chelsea, on the 24th ult, at the house of Phineas N. Pratt, Esq., by Rev. Albert H. Plumb, W. B. McKay to MARIA CHAPMAN PRATT; also, HENRY L. SANDERSON to SUSAN CAROLINE PRATT, all of Chelsea.
DIED—At his residence in Wayne County, Indiana near New Paris, Ohio, on the 2lst inst, JACOB GRAVE, aged 80 years and 6 months.
The deceased was a native of Delaware. He same to this county, and settled on the place where he died in 1816.He was, we believe, a member of the first Meeting for Sufferings of White Water Meeting of Friends. He was one of the worthy and conscientious persons who, about twenty years since, left that Society on account of what they esteemed its recreancy to the cause of the slave. Believing his course on that occasion right, he would never make the slightest concession in regard to it. He was a man of indomitable firmness, strict integrity, liberal and benevolent, a true friend to the oppressed—always ready with parse and hand to help the flying fugitive. He has gone to his reward. Honor to his memory!—Centreville, (Ind.)True Republican. 
SELECT SCHOOL.
THE subscriber will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her charge for purposes of instrument in English Branches, Music and French. A Term of Ten weeks will commence Wednesday, May7,1862.
For particulars address ABBIE B. HKYWOOD. Hopedale. Milford, Mass., April 15, 1862.
THE PROGRESSIVE AGE.
Devoted to all Reforms.
THIS is a monthly Journal, of eight pages, edited by Bryan J. Butts and Harriet N. Greene, his wife, Hopedale, Mass. It commences its fourth volume in May, 1862 and the friends of an unqualifiedly free paper are united duly to consider its claims of their patronage Specimen copies sent to any address.
TERMS.—Single copies, 50 cents a year; clubs of twenty names, $5.00.
Address B. J. BUTTS & H. H. GREENE.
Hopedale, April 16 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator.
THE PRAYER OF THE ENSLAVED.
BY CORA WILBURN.
Our Father in Heaven! we come to thee in tears;
Before thy Omnipresence we cast our sorrowing years;
We bare to thy Omniscience the secrets of the brain,
The tumult and the warfare of heart and soul in pain.
We bring our aspirations, our angel-winged desires;
The gleams of life supernal, drawn from the seraph lyres:
We pray thee, All-pervading! inspire with love and trust
The supplicating millions before thee, in the dust!
Our Father in Heaven! the mother's heart is rent;
Beneath Might's stern oppression thy children's souls are bent;
We flee to Thee for mercy, for faith, for holy rest;
Alas! all is denied as upon earth's mother breast;
We bring unspoken wishes, unuttered thoughts that yearn
For freedom's blest expansion; we dare not earthward turn;
But fix upon-thy heavens our supplicating eyes,
And of thy Love and Wisdom invoke life's dearest prize.
Our Father in Heaven! behold our fettered hands,
Upraised in invocation unto thy angel hands:
Our hearts are sore and stricken, our weary souls bowed down
Beneath the cross and armor, the cruel, thorny crown.
We bring to Thee our burdens; we cast before Thy thorne
The women's outraged honor, the childless mother's moan;
The strong man's bitter anguish, his impotent despair;
The lash by white hands wielded -'tis more than we cab bear!
Our Father in Heaven! we crave from thee a sign
Of thy all-pitying mercy, and tenderness divine;
That soon the heavy burden shall for us lightened be,
Our life and toil rewarded by sacred liberty!
For this we supplicate Thee, our Lord and Master dear!
For this we ask in silence of every circling year:
We pray Thee, All-pervading! upraise in love and trust
The sorrow-stricken millions before thee in the dust!

For the Liberator.
THE KNIGHTS OF THE SKULL
BY HUGH DIDIT.
Oh-ho! for the knights of the cross-bone and skull-
The serfs of the South, and the slaves of the slave-
The heroes who swear by the black flag-and white,
(The first meaning human; the other one, brave!)
Oh-ho! for the jackals, the hyena men,
To whom nothing is sacred, not even the grave,
Who hold their carousals o'er unburied slain,
And steal dead men's bones, to show they are brave!
We've called you chivalrie-may God save the mark!
No Saracen, Turk, or barbarous knave 
Ever sold out his title to manhood so cheap
As the Bull Run skull-stealers, the dauntless and brave!
Oh! Northmen, arouse, for Humanity's sake,
And over the South bid our starry flag wave,
Till you've purged that fair land of the presence of men 
Whose deeds are a burlesque on all that is brave.
Your leaders have lingered too long at their post, 
Essaying the old institutions to save;
Let your war-cry be vengeance-demand blood for blood!
Till the fee bite the dust at the feet of the brave!

From the Oswego Commercial Times.
EMANCIPATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
BY MISS A.W. SPRAGUE.
I.
Now God be praised! for this old world has moved.
Time's rusty wheels at last are newly grooved,
And our own country vibrates to the shock,
As when a mighty earthquake smites the rock.
It shook the senate Chamber as it passed;
It echoed like a trumpet's sudden blast;
The time-stained White House with the voice awoke,
And Freedom stood erect once more, and spoke.
II.
"No longer at my feet shall crawl the slave,
White high in air my starry banners wave;
No longer will I list their clanking chain,
Or on my garments wear this loathsome stain.
I stretch my hand, and grasp the power to-day;
When others fail, myself will bear the sway;
As when my sons declared themselves the free,
Shall beam once more the star of Liberty.
III.
In this, the District where my Temple stands,
I burst indignant every captive's hands;
Here in my home my glorious work begin,
Then blush no more each day to see this sin.
Thus finding room to freely breathe and stand,
I'll stretch my sceptre over all the land,
Until, unfettered, leaps the wailing slave,
And echoes back the blessings of the brave."
IV.
The Eagle hears her voice majestic given,
And down to sweeps, like thunderbolt from heaven,
And with a joyous scream he makes the dome
Of our freed Capitol his future home;
Never to seek again his eyrie high,
To sit with drooping wings and scornful eye,
But ready at the call to lead the brave,
Who shout, "Emancipation to the slave!"
Aye, throw thy banners to the breeze of heaven, 
From Slavery's chain another link is riven;
Ring joyous chimes, as rung that "Bell" of old,
Which once our fathers' "Declaration" told.
A few more roods of free soil has our land;
Our Capital at least has room to stand.
Send one more bolt, oh God, from heaven, to smite,
And Slavery covers forever from our sight.
VI.
Not all in vain have lovers of the right
Proclaimed true freedom in their fearless might;
Not all in vain the efforts of the brave,
To break the fetters from the bleeding slave;
Aye, not in vain on Slavery's sod is shed
The blood of our brave hearts, our cherished dead:
For thus baptized, our soil shall all be free-
The fruit of patriots' blood is Liberty.

From the Salem Register.
BY THEIR FRUITS SHALL YE KNOW THEN."
When those who planned this dark Rebellion fell,
By pride and base ambition, from their sphere,
They saw that power to work their treacherous will
Lay in deceiving; and, like Lucifer,
Their few, unworthy, private ends to gain,
They dared Heaven's vengeance, and the scorn of men.
To lead their tools, the Southern public, on,
How oft did falsehoods perjure them anew!
"Go forth," they cried, "our holy cause to gain,
And curse a vile, relentless, Vandal foe,
Ere they make desolate our sunny land!
What cared those men, if they but rose to power,
Though woe and ruin should mark every step;
Though robes of State were damp with many a tear,
And over heaps of slain their steps mount up?
Are the deceived now learning, through War's woos,
Who are, and who are not, the real foes?
Who have proved Vandals? In whose dreadful track
Lie pillaged, burning towns and wasted lands?
Who outrage Southern homes, and still turn back,
Unsatisfied, to stain their dripping hands
Anew with murder of poor helpless men,
Wounded, and crying "Mercy!" all in vain?
Who wishing an usurper's place, declared
Their Might should crush out Right, and righteous laws,
And, in unholy mockery, have dared
To ask the aid of Heaven in such a cause?
But unsuccessful, my, "Ye caused it all!"
"They of the North?" Let every record tell.
Salem, 1862.
J.G.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
WHAT IS THAT TO THEE?"
A SERMON,
Preached at Meadville Theological School, April 16,1862
BY THOMAS VICKERS.
"What is that to thee? follow thou me."-John 21:22.
It is related of Ivo, Bishop of Chartres, that, when on an embassy for St. Louis, he encountered an old woman, of grave and sorrowful aspect, threading the streets of Acre, with a cruse of water in one hand and a pan of coals in the other. He inquired why she carried them. She answered: "My purpose is, with the fire to burn Paradise, and with the water to quench the flames of Hell; that men may serve God without the incentives of hope and fear, and purely for the love of God,"
In nearly every theology, Christianity somehow gets itself represented as a gigantic system of rewards and punishments-arbitrary, awful and demoralizing. There is Hell on the one hand, crowded with the damned, the smoke of whose burning ascends forever and ever. On the other hand is Heaven, where there is no more work, or want, or woe, but idleness, plenty and rejoicing without end. Hell is the inevitable destiny of the "natural" man. Christians of every name, however, (the dogma of Predestination to the contrary notwithstanding,) practically believe in the power of the individual soul to flee from that "wrath to come," and attain to the unspeakable blessings of Heaven. But, although it is maintained that the present is a life of probation, it is plainly to be seen that the probation is not of a very searching order. It is to be prove whether a man can believe certain doctrines, the most essential of which is expressed in the lines-
"There is a fountain filled with blood,
Drawn from Immanuel's veins;
And sinners, plung'd beneath that flood,
Lose all their guilty stains."
If sometime before death, even at the last moment, a man declare his belief in this, the constituted authorities will certify that he has entered into the heavenly rest. If he fails to do this, all the authorities unite in proclaiming that he has "not accepted the conditions of salvation." The staple of a large part of preaching consists of flaming and terrific warnings to "flee from the wrath to come." coupled with the most alluring pictures of heaven which a sensuous imagination can portray. Men are exhorted to lay hold on the promise of heaven before physical death comes in, and consigns them to hell forever. The uncertain duration of this life, liable as it is to terminate any moment, is a powerful and terrible weapon in the hands of the popular preacher-the mighty sickle with which he stalks through the field of the world, and shears down the grain which is already "white to the harvest."
These debasing views of life, death and immortality are the doors through which a mean and mercenary spirit enters into the religious life of the people. Men serve God for what they can get, and not for love of Him. This disease of the spiritual organ has been superinduced by the nostrums of the doctors. It "grows by what it feeds upon," and its appetite is insatiable, so that the vicious dogma must be carried by its logical consequences into every relation which the soul sustains. Men try to put off the Lord with the least possible service. If he demands entire consecration of heart and life, filling up the measure of every day with the golden fruit of holy activities, we think it too much, and try to buy a place in heaven by hiring the present life of Him at the sevenths, filling up the measure of six days with our iniquity, and that of the seventh not with the fruit of holy activity, but with a sort of holy torpor. The Law and the Prophets, for the six days, may be summed up in "Make to yourselves friends of the unrighteous Mammon." The Gospel which we love to hear on the seventh is, "There remaineth a rest for the people of God"-"He giveth his beloved sleep."
Many of the most precious declarations of Scripture are pressed into the service of this huckstering spirit. At a meeting for conference and prayer at one of the churches in this town, not long ago, a prominent member of the church stated how he had recently verified in a striking manner the passage, "He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth to the Lord, and that which he hath given will the Lord pay him again." He had been reminded of this passage at one of the previous meetings, and he resolved to see if it were true. When Sunday came round, he gave liberally to the church, and the increase in his business that week proved conclusively to him that the Lord not only pays back what is lent him, but pays it with interest. He hoped this would stimulate others to have "pity upon the poor."
It is painful to see how thoroughly the leaders in religious sects enter into this spirit. They do not hesitate to pander to the love of gain in this its worst and most degrading form. They have forgotten the rebuke of Paul to "men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness." Sometime ago, one of the leading religious journals in Boston chronicled some remarkable instances of this "lending to the Lord," which it "especially commended to its wealthy readers." Here is one of the, as related by a Secretary of the British and Foreign Bible Society: A gentleman residing on the continent commenced his contributions "with a simple donation of £20. In 1854, his year's gift had risen to over £2700; in 1855, to £5,665; and last January [1856] he intimated his readiness to make his donations for 1856 either £13,000 or £15,000, adding, that when they were gone, more would be forthcoming. This gentleman's answer to some inquiries was, the more he gave, the more he got. He was a richer man now than when he began to give."
But there is a lower deep even than this. There seems to be no meanness to which the mercenary spirit in religion cannot descend, and no blasphemy of which it is not capable. Of old, we read that it set up the tables of brokers and dove-sellers within the walls of the Temple itself, turning it into a house of merchandise and a den of thieves. But we need not go so far back. During the great "Revival of Religion," so called in 1858, a document was issued in Philadelphia, by the "American Systematic Beneficence Society," in the form of a certificate of stock. This Society claimed to be auxiliary to every benevolent institution in the land"-"Foreign Mission, Home Mission, Sabbath School, Seamen's Friend, Education, Bible and Tract Societies." The vignette upon its certificate was an angel with a trumpet, sounding "Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, good will to men"; and also a figure of the globe, with the inscription, "The field is the world." The customary blanks were left, to be filled with the stockholder's name, the amount of money paid in, and the number of shares bought. To all of which this guarantee was appended, with the names of the officers of the Society:-
"Stockholders are guaranteed to receive one hundred times as much as they put in [Matt. 19:29] Those who continue to pay into the Fund as much as six cents a week for three years in succession, to be life members of the American Systematic Beneficence Society. Those who do this for six years to be honorary managers far life. Those who do this for ten years to be honorary vice-presidents for life. Those who do this [from love to Christ] while they live will have a free admission through the gates into the heavenly city, a snow-white robe, a heavenly harp, a crown of gold, and a seat at the right hand of the final Judge."
So far the small sum of six cents given every week of one's life, [from love to Christ,] the American systematic Beneficence Society will secure to him all the honors, immunities and joys of heaven. Three centuries and a half ago, the infamous Tetzel cried aloud, as he aped through the cities and villages of Saxony, "I would not exchange my privilege [as vender of the papal letters of absolution] against those which

*Watchman and Reflector, April 4, 1861.
<c03>
St. Peter has in heaven; for I have saved more souls by my indulgencies than the apostle by his sermons. Whatever crime one may have committed [naming an outrage which it is not fit even to mention], let him pay well, and he will receive pardon. Likewise the sins which you may be disposed to commit in future may be atoned for beforehand." This voice defies the surge of centuries; it rises above them, loud and clear, and pierces the ears of the children of the Great Reformation in far distant lands and times. The Temple of God is again profaned; spiritual hucksters and brokers infest it; and there is no irresistible and holy Christ, with unflinching whip and tongue of fire, to spurn them forth.
The virus of selfishness has entered largely into the life of the American people, social ecclesiastical and political. We have seen that the popular theology is mercenary. Now, the theology of a people is the highest theoretic expression of its life-it is that life ultimated-it is that life put into philosophic speech, expressing with scientific accuracy its highest relations and tendencies. The religion of a people comprehends the whole of its actual, practical living-its piety, the whole of its feelings dispositions and actions towards God, on the one hand-its morality, the whole of its feelings, dispositions and actions towards man, on the other. Religion is the practical part whereof theology is the theoretical. The theology of a people-I mean that theology which is popular among the messes-being mercenary, its religion will also be mercenary, Its piety mean, hypocritical, full of artifice and fraud-trying to cheat God,-its morality based upon selfishness, knowing no law but that of the strongest, acknowledging no obligation on the part of man to do the right for the right's sake, will give its sanction and support to, by finding excuses for, every species of wickedness practised by man towards man.
To say that out national life-our national religion-has hitherto been of this character, will doubtless seem a "hard saying" to many of you. But I confess I think it has. We are a nation of merchants, and everything is merchantable-honor, truth, virtue, religion,. even the bodies and souls of men.
To "do justly" means to grind down the laborer,-to amass princely fortunes by frequent failures in business-to plunder the nation of every available means of defence, and then strive to overthrow it,-to be a patriotic contractor, and "save the country" by stealing the last dollar from its treasury,-or to be a thoughtless, heartless woman, and spend thousands of dollars of the public money upon festivity and merry-making in the beleaguered seat of government.
To "love mercy" means either to enslave of consent to the enslavement of four millions of our fellow-men, to deny them all the rights of human beings, and practise upon them at will the most awful and revolting cruelties. It means that you may have the power to put this monstrous and Heaven-defying institution out of existence forever, and yet refuse to touch it.
To "walk humbly with God" means to reject every golden opportunity He gives you to do right, to despise alike His warning and rebuke, to trample upon His law, and then appoint "a day of general humiliation and prayer." It means that you would like to have God on your side, but must have the Devil.
The Golden Rule is, "Do unto others whatsoever things ye will not permit them to do unto you."
I know this will seem grossly extravagant and unjust. It never seems entirely just to estimate the moral and religious standard of men by their moral and religious life. We take it for granted that men mean better than they do, and therefore we do not estimate them wholly by their deeds. We should, indeed, take into consideration what men fail to do, as well as that which they really accomplish. But it should never be forgotten that Failure is one of the children of Effort, and where we see clearly that there has been no effort, condemnation must rest.
"By their fruits ye shall know them." I have been speaking of "the fruits" of a class of men neither small nor insignificant-a class of men who exercise a great and alarming influence in this nation to-day. They are men who have helped make the national history, and are a large constituent element in the national character. When we contemplate the nation in its solidarity, their sins are our sins. And we have hitherto been willing that it should be so, nor do I see any evidence of a radical change in us even now. Thus I think it not unjust to assert that the social and civil life this people,-its trade, politics, and jurisprudence, have been at war with Christianity. We have pursued individual, social, and national aggrandizement at the sacrifice of whatever stood in the way of these. This course has brought us to the present crisis.
Thirty years ago, the South, despairing of putting a stop to anti-slavery agitation in any other way, resolved to attack, or at least to threaten to attack, the pockets of Northern merchants and manufacturers by cutting off all commerce with them, unless the utterance of sentiments adverse to the peculiar institution was summarily suppressed. This was a masterstroke. How admirably the scheme worked! Free speech was everywhere stricken down. The south threatened "non-intercourse." and the North thereupon mobbed every anti-slavery meeting that was held, trampled its sons and daughters and its own liberties in the dust. The Legislature of Georgia offered a reward of $5,000 for William Lloyd Garrison, and a mob of Boston merchants came near killing him within sight of the spot where the first blood was shed in the Revolution. By the help of Northern merchants and manufacturers, Slavery conquered the Supreme Court, and thenceforth the Constitution was the rag in which Slavery was clothed, while Liberty went naked. By the same help, Slavery conquered Congress, so that there was scarcely a knee that did not bow to Baal, By the same help, Slavery conquered the Church, and thenceforth, from the cursing of Canaan by drunken Noah to Paul's making a "profitable" servant out of an "unprofitable" one, and sending him back to his master, this blessed Bible was made the warrant for the fiendish atrocities practised upon millions of human beings form age to age.
And what has the war thus far resulted in? One year ago* yesterday, Abraham Lincoln issued his proclamation calling for 75,000 men. Major Anderson had evacuated Fort Sumter the day before. We have been fighting, and pretending to fight, a whole year, at a cost of more than $1,000,000,000, to say nothing of the forty or fifty thousand Northern men slain in battle and by disease. I am forcibly reminded of an old proverb which says, "The Devil's an ass!" He is always defeated in the long run though the very deviltry by which he hopes to conquer. Abraham Lincoln has tried to conquer the South, and reestablish the Union and the Government, by means of the old let-alone policy in regard to slavery; he has been willing to countenance and even to support that terrible scourge of humanity, if the South would only lay down its arms and return to its allegiance. Nay, he is willing to do this now, as I will presently prove. The mercantile interest at the North decided, thirty years ago, that it could nor afford to do right; it could not afford to say, or permit any one else to say, a manful word against slavery. It held fast to this delusion at the opening of the present war, nor has it wholly shaken it off yet. The devil of the North thought to make slavery an instrument, in the hands of others, of incalculable gain to himself-the blood of the negro has stained nearly every dollar of his wealth. But to-day the Northern devil proves himself an ass when be finds slavery sinking his wealth by the thousand million. We can afford all this. We an afford to have trade paralyzed, our merchants bankrupt, and also to take three-quarters of a million able-bodied men from their industrial pursuits and support them in the field at a cost of $3,000,000 a day; but we could not afford to be men and do right. Nay, there are those who think we cannot afford to do right at once, even now. In Abraham

*April 15th, 1861.
<c04>
Lincoln's judgment. "gradual and not sudden emancipation is better for all, in the mere financial or pecuniary view." And therefore be tramples upon the most glorious opportunity to be just that God ever gave to man. Non omnes qui habent citharam, sunt <illegible>. Not every man who possesses a harp is able to wake its strings to noble music. So with Mr. Lincoln. God has put the stylus of immortality into his hand, but he does not know how to write his name. He sees the sin, he sees also the means of ending it, but has not yet had enough of it in the "financial and pecuniary view." In the agony of remorse, a passionate African of the fourth century, whom the Church now delights in as Saint Augustine, cried to his God, "I wretched, most wretched, in the very commencement of my early youth, had begged chastity of Thee, and said, 'Give me chastity and continency, ONLY NOT YET.' For I feared lest thou shouldst hear me soon, and soon cure me of the disease of concupiscence, which I wished to have satisfied rather than extinguished."
But what a sordid atheism is that which can content itself with the "mere financial and pecuniary view" of this struggle, and for a dollar adjourn to the distant future that justice which can be rendered to-day. The Christians of the first century made the great blunder of despising every thing that concerns man's well-being in this life, and of adjourning all questions of justice between man and man, in anticipation of the immediate re-appearance or the Heavenly Lord, when the reign of Justice would be swiftly established in all the earth. But such an adjournment of the claims of humanity is not with us merely a blunder, it is a crime; for we no longer watch and wait for a quickly approaching time "when the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him," and shall sit upon his throne for the dispensing of justice to all mankind.
And it is plainly to be seen that Mr. Lincoln, if he can possibly avoid it, will not "let the oppressed go free." I do not see that his policy has changed a particle since, in the Illinois debates, he avowed himself in favor of a Fugitive Slave Law. You know how Mr. Crittenden opposed that very "mildly drawn" Confiscation Act of last August, and how extremely reluctant Mr. Lincoln was to approve it, delaying his signature till the last moment before the adjournment of Congress. All that Abraham hath will he give for Kentucky. In the light of the late message to Congress, it may seem exceedingly unjust to say that the President is even now willing to "countenance and support" slavery. But, my friends, scrutinize that message, and you will see that it is only the same policy a little more extended-All that Abraham hath will he give for the Border States! If he can make sure that the Border States will "in no event" join the more Southern section in its "proposed confederacy", his object is accomplished-this "substantially ends the rebellion", he says-he cares for nothing further. Nay, the message expressly says that his proposition "sets up no claim of a right by federal authority to interfere with slavery within State limits, referring as it does the absolute control of the subject in each case to the State and its people immediately interested. It is proposed as a matter of perfectly free choice with them." He does not even expect that "all the States tolerating slavery" will "very soon, if at all, initiate emancipation." Yet it is "a matter of perfectly free choice with them" to do it or not But it is not alone by this message that Mr. Lincolns policy is clearly indicated. See what he is already attempting to do in Tennessee. He sends Andrew Johnson down there as Military Governor, "charged," as we are informed, "with the duty of forcing or winning the people back to their allegiance, and organizing a loyal State government." Hon. Emerson Etheridge, now Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives, and Hon. Horace Maynard, accompany the Governor. Now, what is the course pursued by these men, under the sanction of the President? Why, Johnson says, in a speech made to a "crowded assembly" in the Hall of the Tennessee House of Representatives, March 22d-"It is my honest conviction, that the only security for the institution of slavery is in preserving the Constitution. If you want to enjoy your slave property UNMOLESTED, seek to restore the protection of the Government. I have no hesitancy in assuring you that slavery can only be preserved by adherence to the United States and obedience to its laws." So Mr. Etheridge, in a speech made at Nashville, March 18th, "implored the people of Tennessee, in the name of God and of religion, to return to their allegiance," and said, "You can return now, if you will, with your peculiar institution unimpaired." "Speaking of the Confiscation bill [now] before Congress, he said there was time even yet to prevent its passage; if the South would send her representatives, as the opponents of the measure, it [the South] would then have a majority in both Houses." Mr. Maynard also "argued that the rights of the South were safe only under the Constitution." These are the men who are carrying out the spirit of Mr. Lincolns message.
Do you remember one of the sights which Christiana saw in the house of the Interpreter? She and her company were led "into a room where was a man that could look no way but downwards, with a muckrake in his hand. There stood also one over his head, with a celestial crown in his hand, and proffered him that crown for his muck-rake; but the man did neither look up, nor regard, but raked to himself the straws, the small sticks, and the dust of the floor." Is not this tragedy reenacted at Washington to-day? There is a man who can look "no way but downward," as he rakes the fragment of the Union together, and therefore he does not "look up, nor regard," when the angel of God proffers him the celestial crown instead of his miserable rake.
"If angels weep, it is at such a sight!" Now is revealed to us, also, that there is "a way to Hell, even from the gates of Heaven, as well as from the City of Destruction."
Tell me not of victories over Southern rebels! I am sick at heart over these victories. I would to Heaven that we had conquered the rebellious North, rebellious against the law of God. The North is not yet worthy of victory-not morally ready for it. And I pray that God may not withhold his hand, that disaster on disaster may come upon us, until we are ready, nay anxious, to do the right.
Yes, it mut be admitted, it is the old question which the North, with Lincoln at the head of it, even yet proposes to itself-"Will it pay-is it an entirely safe investment-to do what the law of God commands?" It is the old mercenary spirit. This is Christianity as we have learned it-it is nothing more than an Insurance Company, of whose ability to indemnify in case of accident we are much in doubt. We are not sure that bread cast upon the waters will return to us after many days. We are not sure that if we "seek first the kingdom of God," all needful things shall be added to us. Well, then, does God leave "no margin for mans magnanimity"? Does He lay no duty upon me unless He first thoroughly convince me that it is for my temporal interest to perform that duty? A story, which some men treat as legendary, but which I prefer to regard as entirely authentic, may perhaps illustrate Christianity for us here.
Many years ago, as a certain man, "meek and lowly in heart," fared through the solitudes of the Peraea towards the Jewish capital-there to meet an ignominious and terrible death in performance of the duty which God had laid upon him-a self-righteous young ruler fell on his knees before him and cried, "Good Rabbi, what good thing shall I do that I may inherit everlasting life?" The meek one liked not to be knelt to and called "good," yet he replied, "See that thou keep the commandments. Do no murder, neither commit adultery, nor steal, nor lie, nor cheat. Honor thy parents, and love thy neighbor as thyself." Then did the eye of the ruler brignten with joy as he said, "Rabbi, I have observed all these from my youth-am I wonting in anything?" Jesus said unto him: "One thing thou still lackest. If thou desirest to be perfect, go thy way, sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure
<c05>
in heaven; and come, take up thy cress, and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, be was sad, and went away sorrowing; for he had great pos-sessions.
The Christianity of Christ don mean, then, SELF -SACRIFICE.
Well, this is not without its lesson to us. Some of you may already hare asked in your hearts, "Why does he say these things here, to us, who are all, or nearly all, thoroughly and unequivocally opposed to the institution of slavery? Why does he not save his breath until he can spend it where it will do more good?" Friends, I speak now because I wish to urge anew, and with all my might, the duty of open, uncompromising, unwearying hostility to slavery— because the past year's hostilities, the conduct of gen­erals in the field, and of the legislative and executive powers at home, have thoroughly convinced me that the great battle against slavery has yet to be fought, and that it must be fought here at the North, at our firesides, in our schools, with the mechanic at his bench, with the farmer in his field, with the mer­chant in his shop, and with ail in our churches. Yes, preeminently, "The field is the church." No one not wholly ignorant of the facts can deny that the American Church has been the bulwark of American Slavery. Years ago, Dr. Albert Barnes—certainly good orthodox authority—said - "There is no power out of the Church that could sustain slavery an hour, if it were not sustained in it."
I am for a new era in the ecclesiastical history of our country, in which D. D. shall no longer mean Dumb Dog on the question of slavery. For this anti-slavery struggle has always been a "war of words," a war of ideas, of principles; and this will be its character until slavery is blotted from the face of the earth. Your columbiads may subjugate the South, but they will not annihilate slavery until they are loaded with an idea. Now, I want every man here turned into a manufacturer of such ammunition as will crush through all obstacles into the very magazine of slavery, and thus end it at once and forever. And we are to do this, if at all, by talking, for talk is our work. We are to do it by plain speech. I have no faith in Quaker anti slavery men, any more than I have in Quaker generals or Quaker guns. Plain, honest speaking is what is needed now. Let the dispensers of "rose-water" be silent. There must be no room for misstating our meaning. Brethren, I would rather speak five words with my whole understanding, my whole heart and soul, in an upright and down­right manner, so "that by my voice I might teach others also" to bate the whole accursed institu­tion of human slavery, whenever, wherever, and by whomsoever supported or tolerated, than ten thousand words in that "unknown," incomprehensible, unedifying tongue which halts and stammers at the word "abolition," and at last utters "no secession" and "non-extension" in its stead.
Foolish men think that the anti-slavery struggle is well nigh over. Would to God that it were! But it seems clear to me that there are many years of bitter warfare yet to be waged, unless Government is faith­ful to the "Golden Hour" whose sands, alas! are swiftly running out.
The day is not passed when anti-slavery preachers will be obliged to make sacrifices. Eighteen hundred years ago, if a man got angry with his neighbor, and felt like cursing him, he consolidated all the vitupe­ration in his vocabulary into one word, and called him a Christian. As the centuries passed, however, it be-came evident that the epithet was a noble one, and, as it no longer damned a man to be called a Christian, a new curse must be found. About thirty years ago, it was discovered, and ever since (in one part of the globe, at least,) it has been the curse of curses to be called an Abolitionist. There is a growing mistrust that the new curse is a failure—that Abolitionist is, after all, only another name for Christian. But it is not a glorious name yet. Immediate Emancipation is yet a "hard saying, who can bear it?" There are yet many, who, if you "be good and faithful minis­ters of Christ Jesus," if you "be instant in season and out of season," and, "remembering those in bonds as bound with them," "preach the acceptable year of the Lord," which means to " preach delive­rance to the captives," and to "set at liberty them that are bruised"—there are yet many to whom this will be "a hard saying," and they will "walk no more with you," —and, haply, they may "persecute you even unto strange cities." But The Christ says, now as of old, "What is that to thee? follow thou me."
There will not be wanting friends who, when the crisis comes, will advise you of all the dangers of a thoroughly uncompromising course. There will be real dangers to those who take that course. Never flatter yourselves that it will be a path of flowers. But when I think of this, I sometimes remember, that noble Roman, Metellus, who, when warned by his friends of the danger of refusing to take an oath bind­ing him over to complicity with the ambitions and unscrupulous schemes of Saturninus, replied: "If it were always safe to do right, who would ever do wrong? But good men are distinguished by choosing to do right when it is least for their safety to do so."
We shall conquer the South. The war with shivery will then begin to rage. The wild monster of compro­mise,—which good, foolish men think has been acci­dentally killed in the conflict,—will start from its lair, as in the old Roman story, breathing pestilence and death upon the serried columns of freemen, and it will only be when squadrons after squadrons have been detached to fight it, that it will at last be de­stroyed.
This is the on- coming struggle. Even now the acute ear may hear the terrible, suppressed, "Democratic" growl of the monster as be gathers strength for the onslaught. O my brethren! let not Freedom come forth from the agony and bloody sweat of this preliminary struggle, and finding us, her disciples and children, asleep, cry in our ears: "Do ye still sleep, and take your rest? It is enough; the hour is come; behold, I am betrayed into the hands of sinners! Rise, let us go: behold, he that betrayeth me is at hand!"

THE LIBERATED SLAVES AT BEAUFORT.
LETTER FROM ONE OF THE TEACHERS.
On Saturday, March 8th, our company, except two who were sent to Edisto and one to Dawfuski, started from Hilton Head in a small steamer for Beaufort. After breakfast, next morning, I went over to Ladies' Island. We were received with great cordiality by the negroes, who had seen one of our party before. They understand that their support and that of their families is to depend on their own exertions and faith­fulness. No new clothing or goods will be given them, except as reward or pay for labor done.
When we arrived, our first proceeding was to ad­dress the negroes, who collected in front of the piazza, as to what we should expect from them—namely, faithful work; and what they might expect from us— good care, justice, and to be taught to read. We told them we were to see that everything goes on straight, were to keep regular accounts of their labor, and that upon their faithfulness their future good depended. The negroes all seem to be gentle and civil, and pleased to have us come among them. There is a general desire to learn to read; some know a little already. They are quite as well clothed as I expected to find them, but still need clothing very much. Cheap cali­co or other doth, not made up, would be very useful here, as they would make it up to suit themselves, and the practice in sewing will surely not hurt them. Everything looks bright for the future, so far as our work is concerned, much brighter than I ever even dared to hope. Fortunately, the authority under which we act is much respected here, and thus far we have been treated with much civility, if not kindness, by soldiers and every body.
16th. Sunday morning, after breakfast, we drove down to the Baptist Church, at St. Helena Island. The house is situated in the midst of splendid old trees, with much hanging moss. Mr. E. expected to preach, but we found the pulpit was occupied by a
<c06>
soldier. The church was filled with negroes; the dress of many of them was very odd, made principally of carpet stuff. A little boy, who came on horse­back with his grandfather, wore a jacket made of old Brussels carpet, and trowsers of Kidderminster. After the sermon, Mr. Pierce made some remarks to the people as to our purpose in coming, and their duties in view of it. They came up to shake hands with us after listening very attentively and seemed very glad to have us come. At Capt F.'s I met a man, about forty years old, called " Bob "; he said he could read the Bible, but had never been able to find that any thing in it authorized such treatment as they had received from their master. He had always heard that Christ was the justest man that ever lived; but if He allowed people to be treated as they had been treated, then Christ was not true.
March 26. Last Sunday, we went to Church on St. Helena Island; we had a school before church at which nearly a hundred negroes, of all ages, were present. There being no one to preach, I was asked to say something; so I began the service by reading hymn, two lines at a time, while a colored brother led the singing. By this time, there were three of four hundred negroes in the church. I then read several passages from the Bible, and, in place of a ser­mon, told them one of the stories which used to be liked best by the children at our Bible class at Mr. C.'s. Mr. P. then made some good remarks of a practical nature, and another hymn was doled out, two lines at a time.
Salt, to deal out to the negroes, is very much wanted. They hare been accustomed to a pint of it every two weeks, each man, and need it more than clothing In view of this pressing need of salt, I have agreed to be responsible for thirty dollars' worth; and you may tell any of my friends who wish to give any thing that they may pay five dollars, and consider one barrel of salt as their contribution to the wants of these
poor people. E. W. H.

GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN.
Some time since, an adventurous Yankee. by the name of Geo. Francis Train, went over to England for the purpose of introducing to John Bull's favora­ble notice, one of the most recent of American inventions, the street railway. We believe he lid not succeed very well. Tracks were laid in some of the cities, but after trial, were in most eases ordered to be taken up. This speculation having proved pretty much a failure, and our rebellion breaking out about that time, Mr. Train, with the readiness which characterizes the. Yankee adventur­er, laid aside his rail-way scheme, and took upon himself the office of defender of the Union, vin­dicator of American institutions and the American character in general, and for some months he appers to have attracted considerable attention England, frequently addressing public meeting with considerable applause. Some of his speeches have been republished in this country, two of them re­cently in the Boston Commercial Bulletin, a paper generally manifesting excellent taste and judgment but which, we regret to see, characterizes these effusions as "great." The perusal of them has con­vinced us that Mr. Train is not the man properly to represent America, or to take upon himself the task of vindicating her, or to set her in her true po­sition before the English people. His speeches are characterized by an exceedingly low moral tone, the flimsiest veil of logic and reason, the shallowest philosophy, the most unblushing recklessness of as­sertion, the most unmeasured impudence and con­ceit, the most complete disregard for truth, and the general absence of that high tone, sound information, correct judgment, and regard for principle, which should be possessed by the man who undertakes such a task as Mr. Train has taken upon himself. Addressing an audience extremely ignorant on all topics connected with this country, he is enabled to make reckless, partial or incorrect statements which his hearers are unable to contradict, and which are laid down so confidently, positively and dogmatically, that they are readily accepted as well founded.
There is, perhaps, a grain of truth and, common sense to a ton of misrepresentation and falsehood in Mr. Train's speeches. They are amusing from their impudence, and an occasional felicitous application of the "you too" argument, but it is lamentable to see any such epithet as "great" applied to such a mass of rubbish. Mr. Train is, in our opinion. doing his country more harm than good. It will not be long before his sciolism and humbuggery will be detected, and a worse impression than ever left upon the English mind in regard to this country. He is undoubtedly a versatile character, but we should prefer to see him exert his talents in some other di­rection than one for which he is most entirely unfit —New Bedford Republican Standard.

LECTURES BY JOSH S. ROCK, ESQ.
The citizens of Philadelphia have recently been favored with a visit from John S. Rock, Esq., the distinguished colored orator and lawyer of Boston During his short stay, he gratified a wish long cherished by them to hear one or two of his popular lec­tures. "Last week be spoke in the scientific library course of the Institute for colored youth, to a very full audience. His theme was, "Die Character and writings of Madame de Stael." The address itself was one befitting the place and the audience: it was chaste, accurate, scholarly, and marked with exceeding good taste. But the address of this visit was given at Sansom St. Hall, on Mowlay evening That large and fashionable Hall was quite well filled by an audience partly white and partly colored, among whom we noticed some of our best and most influential fellow-citizens. Dr. Rock's subject was "A Plea for My Race." To say that the lecture was eloquent conveys only an idea in the aggregate —it was something more than what is generally termed an eloquent discourse. It was full of meat for strong men, pith for rousing the sluggish, humor for the lively, and logic for the philosophical. Everything was in excellent taste. The manner, as well as the matter, was noticeable. Dr. Rock, tall and manly in form, his stern, dark eye flashing under an intellectual brow, did himself look the orator. There was no bluster, no empty rant and beating of the air, no mere clamoring after effect, no "hol­low words of empty sound." His voice, smooth, pleasant, mellifluous, is exactly adapted to his calm and graceful action, and to his elegant diction.
We cannot say that we agree with the accomplish­ed orator in some of his ethnological views. But in the hopeful and cheering view be took of the times and of the relation of his rate to this country in ease of a foreign war, he struck a responsive chord in the hearts of his people. Upon this point he said most beautifully: -In such a war, if my race are treated like men. if they are guaranteed the recognition of their manhood, they will defend the country
which has given birth to them and their fathers for over two hundred years; but if they cannot be thus recognized. they will not take up arms at all: they will not fight against their country."
But will not attempt a report of this excellent and eloquent discourse. Altogether, it was one of the most entertaining, instructive and finished productions we ever listened to F. D. B.
—Philadelphia Christian Recorder.

IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed free 323 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all disease of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differ, from that of any else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey. 
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. she is not afraid to speak of in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
