<C01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY,EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 35. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1751.
Refuge of Oppression.
TOASTS TO ABE LINCOLN.
THE HEAVY CURSE.
May Heaven's curses, dark and dire,
Commingled with almighty fire,
Fall on your head and press you down
With dreadful torture to the ground!
May peace forever from you fly,
Pleasures fleet when they seem nigh,
And in their place may gnawing pain
Seize and rack your burning brain!
May sleep ne’er bless your weary eyes,
Nor guardian angels from the skies
Around your bed their vigils keep,
To guard you well should e'er you sleep!
May friends forsake you in distress,
And no kind hand assist or bless,
But all the world to you be foes,
And crush your life with bitterest woes!
May loathsome sights appal your eyes,
And wasting age and maladies
So mar your life that thou shalt rave
For final refuge in the grave!
On you may hell put forth its might,
And shroud your soul in endless night;
May this e'er be thy resting-place,
And that of all your cursed race!
And if there be a curse more dire
Than hell with all its liquid fire,
Oh, may it in your soul e'en creep,
And hellish fiends their nightly orgies keep!
-Mobile Southern Tribune. TOASTER.
COLORED SOLDIERS.
The fanaticism of the radical party has cost the nation an immense sacrifice of treasure and life, and in nothing has this been exemplified more thoroughly than in the matter of negro troops. Why were they required at all? The white men of America were not slow in volunteering. There was no refusal or neglect in filling up all the requisitions. The President had no reason to doubt that the citizens of his country would do all their duty. Nor can any one assign a good reason for substituting black men for white. On the contrary, if the President had called for them, he would have had a white man to-day in service for every black man now enlisted, and the white man would have been worth ten of the black. The only motive for adopting the black soldier system was the fanatical idea of negro equality, and the determination of the radicals to do everything possible to raise the negro to the social and political level of the white. They refused to pay any attention to the question of expense. They were willing to lose battles, risk terrible failures, to suffer the loss of the very cause of the Union itself, if they might only secure a step in their negro equality plan for the country. It is certainly plain that this was the object. No other can be imagined. Witness the persistence. Negro troops have not only proved failures, but they have brought terrible disaster on the armies in which they have been incorporated. All the expense wasted on their enlistment has been thrown away, and worse than thrown away. And what do the radicals propose in the face of all this? Nothing less than to substitute negroes as far as possible for the white troops now called for. They are loud in their denunciations of the Governor of this State, because he has declined to give official authority to any one to enlist negroes instead of white men. They are vociferous in their appeals to white men to avoid the draft by filling up the army with negroes. The radical press is filled with this insane plan. In the face of all the failures of the negro troops, they urge that the white men shall stay at home, and procure negro substitutes!
We ask in vain for any other explanation of this, except the fanaticism of negro-equality notions. If soldiers are worth anything to the nation now, they <illegible> to be of the best quality of soldiers. If the President strengthens the army at all, he should strengthen it with white material. If he could fill his draft of five hundred thousand men with negroes, they would vanish in a few months before the veteran troops of the rebellion. Could anything be <illegible> absurd, more fatally fanatical, than this negro soldier plan, which is thus persistently urged on the people? There is not a sensible man in the land who does not know that fifty thousand white men are worth more to any army than five hundred thousand negroes. The cowardice which brought such slaughter on these poor victims of abolition fully when they fled from the first fire at Petersburg is but the characteristic of the race. With bayonets behind as before them they may fight, as the weakest and most timid animal will fight, in a corner. But to stake the fortunes of the country, the fate of the Union cause, on such soldiers is madness.
The simple truth, the fundamental truth in all this matter, is that the negro is a dependent on the white man, and needs protection, support, defence. He is more fit to be placed in the front of our battles than are our young children. To raise an army of ten year old children would be regarded as a crime against humanity, and this raising of negro regiments is a crime of precisely the same nature. Foolish, weak, unfit to judge for himself or to take care of himself, the negro is a trust to the white race of this country, and we have no more right to mass these poor dependents in regiments, to become food for powder, than we have to consign our young children to the same vain and useless sacrifice. Yet there are men to-day who are loud in their de<illegible> of those who refuse to advocate filling up our quota with negroes instead of white men, and who <illegible> that it is patriotic to find negro substitutes for the white men called for. With suchmen it is useless to argue.-N. Y. Journal of Com.

WHAT NIGGER FREEDOM COSTS.
Some years ago the Abolitionists started a crusade, as friends of humanity, to free the niggers, and their agitation of the subject brought on the present war. This war to free the niggers has now raged <illegible> for three years, and what is the result? There were at the commencement four millions of niggers in slavery. It is estimated that the war has made one million free. But even all of this million have not been able to stand the ordeal of their passage from slavery to freedom. Two or three hundred thousand have perished meanwhile by famine, discase and bullets. But say that in round numbers one-quarter of the niggers have been made free, what has it cost us, as friends of humanity, to free this million? North and South together have paid well for it; for in the armies of both sections there have been killed or disabled, or have died, not less than one million white men-a fair balance, man for man. A white man dies for every nigger that is made free. But this is not all. The debts of both sections make up the round sum of five thousand millions of dollars. Thus for every nigger that has been made free, in obedience to the clamors of the
<C02>
friends of humanity, the whole country has given five thousand dollars and the life of one white man. At this rate, what will be left of us when we have made free the whole four million? Will it not be like the Kilkenny cat fight? Will there be any more left than the tails?—Bennett's Herald.
HOW MUCH IT HAS COST TO MAKE WENDELL PHILLIPS HAPPY. More than half a million niggers, who, three years ago, were fed by planters on hog and hominy, are now fed by the United States on hard tack and salt horse. To bring about this change in the condition of these niggers, it has cost the United States about five thousand dollars, and the life of one white man per nigger. Has the change in the condition of the nigger been of any advantage to him, commensurate with this price? No. No one can pretend that the sable wretches were not in all respects better as they were. But we have gained one great point by this change—we have made Wendell Phillips happy. Another great point gained is that we have satisfied Garrison, Greeley, and Exeter Hall. Can a free people desire to barter national prosperity for a nobler purpose than this? Northern and Southern men, to the number of a million—the first choice and very flower of the race—have fallen in battle or have died more horribly in hospitals, and the nation is nearly broken down with financial embarrassments; and all this has been done to make some hundreds of thousands of niggers even more wretched than they were—and to make Wendell Phillips happy. Has any one the impudence to complain that this is a very large price for a very little whistle? Send him to Fort Lafayette.-Bennett's Herald.

NO PEACE WITH LINCOLN.
Never will this bleeding land see peace with such an administration as Mr. Lincoln has or can have. It is now evident that eternal war and his <illegible> are synonymous. It is evident that more fighting, rivers of blood more, wider devastation, more awful play still of the dreadful enginery of war, Pelion upon Ossa of the corruption that war feeds, war alone never will settle this gigantic struggle. There is every sign that the time has come for the marshalling of the moral forces to settle it; and it is a solemn fact that, so far gone is confidence in Mr. Lincoln, he is as powerless to summon any moral force as the child unborn. His administration stands before the people as a malefactor. It has proved faithless to its trust. It has trampled on the great inherited rights of freemen. Its programme has not a particle of the moral force of conciliation, but is surcharged with every hellish element of war. It may direct the vast physical power it wields to the work of a war on private property; burn villages, capture cities; but, in Brownson's language, it never can restore the Union, maintain the nationality, or give the country peace. What we urged three years ago, with all the force we could command, we urge to-day; war alone, we repeat, can never settle this gigantic strife; the moral forces must be summoned; and the first step to something besides the bell of war must be a change of Administration. Let the man, who, with the light before him, is not ready to go for a change of Administration, suspect his ability to worthily serve his country.
Can there be peace so long as Mr. Lincoln and his set—the engineers who run now the political machine-are at the head of affairs? Who are they, pray? How often are Democrats pointed to Stanton and Holt and Halleck, and now Andy Johnson, with the remark, Democrats run the machine. Who does not know that they hold their positions on the tacit bargain to screen the men and the measures they have, their whole lives long, condemned; that they have to bend and cringe to the real engineers; that it is a mockery, an insult to call their adhesion to Mr. Lincoln that of Democrats. They are Democrats no longer! They have been powerless but to do the ruinous work of carrying out abolition measures, and the whole country knows it; and no Democrat, for a moment, will accept one of them as an exponent.
The real engineers are well known; their theories and their objects. They are the same Abolition set that every Democratic National Convention that ever met characterized and denounced as enemies to the Constitution and the Union. One of them is Charles Sumner, with his Cosmos theory of the South, as clean as a sheet of white paper, and he a second Locke to write all over it a new law. Where, in God's name, is there the first sign of any hope whatever of peace on this theory? There is Henry Wilson; and he has a hundred times over pledged himself to work on until the sun shall rise on no master and set on no slave. How can he bring on peace? Is not the moral force of his whole past arrayed in phalanx against him? There is William H. Seward, who reiterated Rufus King's idea that, as to a citizen's rule in civil affairs, there is a higher law than the Constitution, and who sanctions the whole line of Abraham Lincoln's transactions, can he make peace? Who supposes it possible for him to do it? Is he not the accredited father of the irrepressible conflict doctrine? Did Helper, and the John Brown class of small abolition demagogues, do more than put his volcanic words into acts of blood? Can he give peace to the country? But further; the doctrines of Garrison are now the doctrines at the top. Has not this man, for thirty years, literally cursed and swore against the Union? Has he not continually called it a covenant with death and an agreement with hell? This man of peace, with words of blood on his tongue, has no hand for the rifle to go to the front, but stays behind where safety is, and urges schemes that turned this land into a holocaust of blood. Is there a peace element in him or in his theories? God forbid that he should be an agency for peace. Once more, and to go to the head: Did not Abraham Lincoln announce that this country must be either all free or all slave? With this well known, a party took this man as their candidate; and though adroit and deceptive, and making nothing of solemn pledges to others, he has been true to this idea—true to Phillips, Garrison, Wilson, and the abolition conspirators. As the Chief Magistrate of the country, speaking not in accordance with law or the Constitution, but on his so-called military necessity principle, he dares to tell this nation that there shall be no peace until his partisan talk to get political power is realized; until great communities change their local law; until slavery is destroyed! American citizens, how can there possibly be peace with this class of politicians in power—wielding the purse and the sword—the vast naval and military power of this nation? Look for the milk of human kindness in the wolf, but do not look for peace so long as Mr. Lincoln is at the head of affairs.
The first step in the direction of peace, on the basis of the Constitution and the Union, is to change the National Administration. Let every good citizen rouse up his genius to effect this work. It is the only path of honor or of peace.—Boston Post.
<c03>
Selections.
PEACE AND UNION.
What is it that is likely to be a firebrand in the future? Is it any question of tariff, or bank, or taxation? With the sad experience of civil war which the American people have had, no question of purely material interest is likely to divide them in years to come. There is but one thing that stands in the way of union and unity, and that is a diversity of social institutions. Slavery has caused this rebellion, and it will continue to be. a disturbing element until it is removed. Says the Richmond Enquirer,”the South now maintains that slavery is right, natural and necessary. While it is far more obvious that negroes should be slaves than whitesfor they are only fit to labor, not to directYet the principle of slavery is itself right, and does not depend on difference of complexion." Jefferson, in his forecast, anticipated slavery as” the rock upon which the Union would split." Alexander H. Stephens, now Vice President of the rebel Confederacy, and who was one of the most liberal of the Southern statesmen that were forced into the rebellion, says that ”African slavery was the immediate cause of the late rupture and present revolution," and that ”the prevailing ideas entertained by Jefferson and most of the leading statesmen at the time of the formation of the old Constitution were, that the enslavement of the African was in violation of the laws of nature; that it was wrong in principle, socially, morally and politically." Mr. Stephens affirmed that ”our new government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundation is laid, its corner-stone rests, upon the great truth that the negro is not the equal of the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition." Mr. Spratt of South Carolina, in his famous letter to Perkins of Louisiana, ridiculed the idea that secessionism had grown out ”of any aggression of the North upon the rights of the South;" it was ”still less the result of any act of aggression on the part of the United States government;" and the only reason to be assigned for it was ”the difference in the organization of society North and South," the one being democratic and the other aristocratic. Mr. Garnett, in his letter to Trescott, said that "democracy and slavery are incompatible." Hon. Henry May, who recently represented the Baltimore district in Congress, a man of much ability though a secessionist, said in a speech in favor of a disunion peace, ”the people of the South believe, and I believe, that there is established a fixed and unalterable antagonism between the sections where slavery is and is not allowed, and that no future political union, as long as slavery exists; can ever be maintained between them upon any basis whatever."
We might multiply these extracts, showing that Southern statesmen clearly appreciate the diversity of institutions which has madewhich will make a harmonious union impossible. There must be a onenessa unityof institutions before we can have peace. How are we to attain this? By abandoning slavery, Mr. Lincoln maintains. By strangling abolition agitation, say the peace Democracy. They practically agree with the Southern rebels, that slavery must control the whole Union. Alexander H. Stephens said, ”Looking to the distant future, and perhaps not very distant either, it is not beyond the range of possibility, and even probability, that all the great States of the North West shall gravitate this way as well as Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas, &c. Should they do so, our doors are wide enough to receive them, but not until they are ready to assimilate, with us in principle."
Many of the peace Democracy have already shown a readiness to do this. There worship of slavery and jealousy of any encroachment upon the institution is as hearty as that of the aristocratic Southern planters; nor would they hesitate to introduce it into the free States, first, however, ”hanging every abolitionist," which is their favorite way of disposing of those who are opposed to the oppression of a race.
The fact is that the nation must exist all free or all slave, and this is the momentous issue which the people must meet in deciding upon the terms of peace. It will be the issue of the coming election, if the Democracy commit themselves against the abandonment of slavery. It is an issue before which all questions of candidates or policy in the management of the war sink into insignificance. Grant that the Administration has abused its. power, trespassed upon individual rights, wasted the substance of the peoplegrant all that a reckless opposition, greedy for power, has charged upon it the issues presented by them are unimportant com-pared with the question whether America shall be a land of freemen or of slaves? So deep are our own convictions upon this subject that we care not who holds the reins of government, or what policy is adopted in the further prosecution of the war, how long the war may be protracted, or how soon peace may be concluded, if that peace, when it comes, is based upon the principles of the Declaration of Independence, and makes the institutions of this country truly democratic, republican and homogeneous.-.—Boston Journal.

THE PRESIDENT AND PEACE.
The recent peace abortion at Niagara Falls has naturally excited considerable attention, and called forth much remark. The pro-slavery press is uniformly very severe on the President for cutting short the proposition of certain irresponsible parties to visit Washington, and hold what in Africa would be called a general palaver. Very properly, we think, the Presidentwe do not say President Lincoln, for we know no other President in the United Statesvery properly, we think, the President suggested the necessary basis of the only negotiations which could be entertained for the restoration of what all desire, and he, as earnestly as any man in the nation, PEACE. After a war of more than three years, the sacrifice of two hundred thousand valuable loyal lives and nearly two thousand millions of dollars, the country should clearly understand, what has been the unhallowed cause of this gigantic rebellion, and what must be done by the rebels to stop the carnage, and bring back repose and peace. The President, in a note so short that all can read it, and so plain that none can fail to understand it, has expressed, we believe, the real thought and purpose of all the loyal millions of the North. What be asks and what all honest men, who comprehend the subject at all, demand is:
1. That the rebels shall lay down their arms, and return to their duty as citizenscitizens, we may add, guilty of one of the greatest crimes the sun lever looked down upon.
2. That they shall give up what has been the sole cause of this crime, and all the waste and miseries it has involved-—SLAVERY.
Could anything less be required? Jefferson Davis tells Mr. Edmund Kirkeand Mr. Kirke says he
<c04>
believes Davis to be a man of truth, which we do notthat what they ask is their independence; they ”are not fighting for slavery," and that they will have their independence or be exterminated in the attempt. Now, in asserting that the rebels are not fighting for slavery, Davis uttered a flagrant liea lie capable of being proved so a thousand times on his head. But for slavery the rebellion could never have existed and would never have been thought of. Without slavery the malign spirit which has always animated the South, and which has characterized the whole course of its conduct for forty years past, and culminated in the barbarism and atrocities which have marked its conduct in this, on their part, inhuman war, would be incomprehensiblean effect without a cause. It is not singular that Davis should now deny that they are still carrying on a bloody and relentless war for the sake of human slavery; for they seek, as they also need, the sympathies of civilized nations, and almost the whole civilized world is opposed to slavery.
But grant that Jefferson Davis speaks the truth for himself and those whom he represents, when he solemnly affirms that they are not fighting for slavery. Then, of course, the President's demand that they shall give up slavery is a matter of no offence, and the concession of this point can cost them no sacrifice. If they are not fighting for it to-day, they will never fight for it hereafter; let us be well assured of that. And if the rebels are not fighting for it, why should those who sympathize with the rebels manifest so lively an interest in its preservation? Is it more necessary or more important to Northern politicians than it is to Southern planters?
But, without pursuing these inquiries, let us say that the President does no more than his duty, no more than patriotism and the clearest dictates of common sense demand, when he be insists that the rebels in laying down their arms, and returning to their allegiance, shall give up the institution of slavery. He sees and feels, as every other honest and intelligent man in the country does, that slavery, if not the sole, is the chief cause of this rebellion, He knows that when in its madness the South trampled on the Constitution, and arrayed itself in arms against the laws and government of the country, it cast away the only shield which protected this institution from the direct action of the humanity, the civilization and the Christianity of the North, and left it open to the measureless condemnation which it deserved at the hands of all Christendom, and to all the hazards of war. Traitors have no rights except such as criminal law and the laws of war allow.
When the President, as Commander-in-Chief of the armies and navy of the United States, in a proclamation which will make his name immortal, declared all the slaves in the rebellious States FOREVER FREE, he performed an act wholly within the limits of his power, and an act, thank God, which neither he nor any other authority can lawfully annul! He cannot do it, for by what authority can he reduce three millions of unoffending free men to perpetual slavery? Congress cannot do it for the same reason; and the Supreme Court of the United States, to which many pro-slavery men seem to be looking, has no jurisdiction over the acts of a military commander in the field. Were it otherwise, who knows that our noblest generals, and even the President himself, might not be arraigned before that court, to answer for the waste of rebel life and property which they have occasioned in their various campaigns? This whole affair falls fortunately under the laws of war. If the President can in the exercise of his authority invade the rebellious States, destroy their mills, foundries, roads and shops, lay waste their fields, seize their horses and cattle, burn their cities and towns, and even take the lives of such as are found in arms against him, can it be possible that any man is so stupid as to maintain that he has no right to pronounce a slave free? Is a slave the only thing sacred belonging to a rebel? May we trample down a rebel's fields, burn his dwelling, confiscate his property, and shoot himself, and yet have no power to break the chains that bind to him a slave? The idea is so preposterous that we know not whether he who entertains it deserves most the indignation or the pity of mankind; and yet we have a whole school of politicians and philosophers about us, who talk as if the President's proclamation of emancipation was a mere waste of paper, and slavery was again to be the great interest and controlling political power of the United States. Whether that proclamation is worth anything or not, depends on the simple question whether the Union is maintained or goes down. If the rebellion succeeds, then the devil may reign in the South, and we shall have no power to resist his sway. But if the rebellion is crushed, as we never doubt it will be, then slavery perishes with it. And any President or Congress, any party or man, who should propose a restoration of the Union with slavery in its former status, must not only be at bottom a knave, but must combine with the knave such a measure of the fool as to form a monster. It would be to throw the country back where it was when the rebellion sprang into existence, with the same causes of strife, the elements of an irrepressble conflict, and the torch already burning to kindle anew a protracted and wasting civil war. Let us not only end the war, but provide against its recurrence. And nothing but the abolition of slavery can do this.-.—N. FY. Christian Ambassador.

THE CAUSE OF LIBERTY.
The views expressed in the following article from the London(Eng.) Star are so eminently just, that we feel we are doing a good service to our readers by copying them. We bespeak for the article a candid consideration. Says the writer:
"We sympathize with the North because in a war which we find in progress, and with regard to which it is impossible not to entertain sympathies, we follow with anxious hopes the army which brings deliverance to the captive, and whose victories make impossible the consummation of the foulest and most gigantic conspiracy against human rights which the world has ever seen. Many of our own countrymen have, somehow, become possessed of the notion that the cause of the South is linked with that of freedom, little imagining that no sooner would the success of the South be assured than the liberated slaves of Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Missouri, Western Virginia, Kentucky and Maryland would be hurled back to bondage by the operation of a law more barbarous and; relentless than the Fugitive Slave Act, which, happily for humanity, no longer desecrates the United States statute-book. The Southern penal enactments against teaching slaves to read, or to assemble together to worship God, or to leave the plantation on which they labored, would be made more severe. Abolitionists would be hunted out and forced to leave the country, or be hanged by the brutalized mean whites; the hideous traffic in human flesh would be resumed; General Forrest, that fine specimen of Southern chivalry, would return to his occupation of hunting runaway negroes with bloodhounds; Virginia planters would begin with fresh zest to breed up children
<c05>
for the market; Mason is probably even now, in his London retirement, compiling a Fugitive Slave Law more diabolical in its provisions than that he be formerly fathered in Congress; while the whipping mill of Missouri and the punishment room of Charleston goal would soon be in full blast, unmolested by the presence or terror of a Federal army. Are these the humane results for which Englishmen desire the success of the South? As for us, we cling to the old-fashioned aspirations for human liberty which were once popular in England, and look for the ultimate success of the Northern arms, because, with Mr. Cobden, we think that to doubt the result of this conflict” would be almost to call in question the exercise of a Divine authority over the affairs of the world."

THE EMANCIPATED NEGROES IN SURINAM.
Our readers will remember that last year, by a decree of the Government of Holland, Slavery was forever abolished in the Dutch colony of Surinam, in South America. There were many Pro-slavery papers in the United States which at that time took the utmost pains to represent this emancipation movement as detrimental both to the interests of the colony and to the moral condition of the negro— Correspondents of some of them asserted that the day of emancipation had been generally spent by the negroes in drunkenness, and they confidently predicted that a general demoralization of that class would be the next consequence. Whether any of these letters really proceeded from any competent authority is very doubtful, as the accounts which have been rendered to the Government of Holland by the officers of the colony are highly favorable to the negroes. The reports furnished by the Moravian missionaries of Surinam agree with the Government reports, and the testimony of these people is the more valuable as they have known the negroes while slaves better than any other class of men, and have converted most of them to Christianity. One of these missionaries, the Rev. T. Van Calker, the superintendent of the mission-work in Surinam, makes the following highly interesting statements on the present condition of the negroes:
"The emancipation of the negro slaves," he writes, ”has now been carried out according to the law of August 8, 1862, and all has gone off better than we had expected. The first of October, too, the time appointed for concluding all contracts between the masters and negroes, has passed without bringing any trouble. Up to the end of September there were many estates, particularly on the Commewyne, where no contracts had bad been made; but previous to the fixed period all was in order there, as had been the case for some time on the Surinam. As soon as the authorities set about acting up to the published decree, on the expiration of the fixed time, viz.: removing the negroes to the crown plantations in cases where no contracts had been made, there was such a haste manifested to comply with the demands of Government that the Commissioners of the district could hardly get through the work. Now, in the midst of October, there are few negroes who have to be employed by the authorities, though there may possibly still be some wandering about without any employment.
"The negroes have not all remained on the same plantations where they had lived as slaves. Many have returned to plantations where they had been located before, or have taken service elsewhere— Many, too, have left the sugar plantations, preferring the lighter work in coffee or cotton grounds, so that the production of sugar appears to have decreased. But, in general, no noticeable change has taken place in the colony with regard to its marketable productions. The negroes have remained at their old work, and the cultivation of the plantations continues as before.
"Of course, this state of things has not been so attained to without some difficulties, but they were less formidable than had been anticipated. If the law of Aug. 3, 1862, bad had allowed but one month instead of three for concluding all contracts, and the planters had taken advantage immediately of the good spirit shown by the negroesand if the law of April 16, 1863, relating to the duties and privileges of those emancipated negroes who were to be placed under direct Government control, had been published in the Negro-English language, all would have gone off smoothly. The negroes appear satisfied with the contracts. All are concluded for the space of one year only, so that the question arises in our minds as to how matters will stand next year. All must depend on this year's experience on the part of employer and employed; but we have reason to believe that all will go well. Our hopes have not been put to shame thus far. We will therefore leave the future, with trustful hearts, in His hands who has wrought wonders in Surinam."
We have not yet met a single trustworthy statement which would in the least impair the weight o of this testimony.-.—N. Y. Tribune.

" WHAT THE NIGGER COSTS."
Under this tasteful and suggestive caption, one of our popular New York dailies, which professes to be loyal, though just now in a most unhappy distraction of heart between McClellan and Grant, edifies its readers with the enormous expenses in blood and treasure, inflicted upon the country by the present rebellion. Thirty years ago, a few abolitionists, we are told, began to agitate the country, and now see what the nigger costs!
Of course, all this immense sacrifice of life and wealth is to be ascribed to the abolitionists. But for them, all would have been in peace and prosperity. The lion and the lamb would have laid down together, liberty and slavery would have been bosom friends, and the master, driving a hundred slaves, would have harangued the universe on the glories of or American freedom! But as the serpent entered paradise, so abolitionism sprang up in a luckless hour in the United States, and there was an end to the peace of our” happy family."
As for keeping four millions of our fellow-beings in eternal ignorance and chains, that was nothing; they were only ”niggers." And what if we did stand before the world a great political liea disgrace to the religion and civilization of the age- was not cotton king, and did not slavery pay? Who cared for principlewho loved any liberty except his own-—who regarded truth, justice or humanity? These things were obsolete. We had ignored them; and but for the abolitionists, they would never have been heard of again. We would have ignored God, too, if we could.
To charge this rebellion, and all its cost, and all its miseries upon the abolitionists, is an ingenious device of the lovers of slavery; as shrewd as the cry of thief, thief, by the burglar or pickpocket It is like a rogue's reckoning up all the expenses of the police and courts of justice, and charging them upon honest citizens, who only wish to ruin the country by taxation. To ferret out, arrest, try and punish a single murderer has cost our city a hundred thous-
<C06>
and dollars. Our sapient editor would charge all this expense, not to the murderer, but to the police and courts of justice! But for these pests of society, this vast sum would have been saved, andthe murderer gone free!
Yes, ”the nigger," this poor down-trodden thing that” had no rights which white men were bound to respect," is proving rather expensive. Jefferson, our great Democratic leader when democracy meant something besides slavery, foresaw this day, and said, ”I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just." Could he, or the abolitionists that rose after he had gone to his grave, have been heeded, and slavery abolished, our country to-day would have been united, prosperous and happy. Wrong-doing cannot always prosper.N. Y. Christian Ambassador.

IS THIS FREMONTISM?
The Westliche Post, of this city, the leading German Fremont organ in this State, and the only one in it which commands any considerable influence, is out in an article advising Fremonters to vote for no radical Union men for Congress who support Lincoln. In every district in the State except one, the Second, the only contest will be between Lincoln radicals and Copperheads; and the advice of the Post tends directly to help elect the Copperheads. Are we to understand this to be the policy of the Fremont party of Missouri? If so, the sooner the fact is established and generally comprehended, the better, as then many honest anti-slavery and Union men, who, on account of their anti-Lincolnism, have committed themselves to the Fremont movement, will see where it is bearing them.
For Fremonters, in a majority of the Districts of Missouri, to act upon the Post's suggestion would be simply to help elect Copperheads, without voting for them. The effect might be to send back to Congress Rollins, Hall, King and Scott, the bitterest enemies the Radicals of the State have ever had, when they have the power to substitute for them sound and thorough Radical men, who would work for freedom and the Union. Such action would not be Radicalismit would, in effect, be Copperheadism, none the less reprehensible because not so open and direct in its operations as the pro-slavery and pro-rebel article which goes by that name.
The most of our Fremont men say they cannot go with the Union party, because they are opposed to Lincoln. Their opposition extends merely, if we give them credit for sincerity, which we have been disposed to do, to one manAbraham Lincoln. But here we find the organ of Fremontism in Missouri engaged, not merely in opposing Lincoln, but just as bitterly opposing J. W. McClurg, Ben. Loan, S. H. Boyd, and others who are just as true and brave Radicals as is the sun ever shone upon, and contributing by its counsel to the election, in their places, of such miserable pro-slavery Conservatives as James S. Rollins, William A. Hall,. John S. Phelps, Thomas L. Price, John G. Scott, &c., &c. We ask again, is this Fremontism? Is this the work it considers itself called to accomplish?
There have been, we admit, some things in the Fremont movement which have puzzled us not a little. The principal of these is that, while the movement has been called radical, there have been certain individuals very active and prominent in it. such as John Cochrane, General J. H. McKinstry, N. C. Claiborne and others, who have never drawn a radical breath, and some of them, perhaps, since the rebellion broke out, not a loyal one. Can it be that the influence of these men has secured such a direction from the leading Fremont organ of Missouri to its followers, as is hoped will effect the election of a delegation of Peace Democrats to Congress? It might be that, in consideration of such men as McKinstry and Claiborne throwing their influence in favor of Fremont for the Presidency, some of Fremont's immediate adherents might use their influence for some of the friends of McKinstry and Claiborne for other offices, but we make no such charge.
What we want to know, and what ought to be known, is whether the Westliche Post, in advising against helping to elect such Radicals as McClurg, Loan, Boyd and Knox to Congress, speaks the authoritative voice of the Fremont party of Missouri. We are very certain there are very many Missourians, who have called themselves Fremonters, who will sustain no such counsel. With rare exceptions they are Germans, who are true friends of freedom and the Union, and who will be no parties to the support of Rollins, Hall & Co., either directly or indirectly. Not only will they not vote for them, but they will vote against them, in such a way as to defeat them and elect Radicals, and they will meet with scorn any propositions to the contrary. If the Post does speak the voice of genuine Fremontism, then are the days of Fremontism in Missouri about numbered. It will have gone to seed and perished, long before the political season is ended.Missouri Democrat.

HOW MUCH LOYALTY IS THERETHREE IN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
The above has become an interesting inquiry, and in more than one respect an important one to the country. It is a notorious and undeniable fact, that all the disloyalty there is in the countryreference being had to that portion which ostensibly acknowledges the supremacy of the Unionfinds shelter and welcome within the ranks of the Democracy. We remember the remark in one of the speeches of John M. Botts of Virginia, made previous to the war, bat but after secession had become the subject of public discussion, that ”so soon as a man turned disunionist, if not already in the' the Democratic party, he went forthwith and joined it." There was truth in the remark. The rebellion grew up beneath the shadow of the Democratic party. The chosen representatives of that party previous to the revolt, Pierce and Buchanan, were its guardians, if not, properly speaking, its nurses. Without their connivancewe feel almost prepared to say, without their complicitythe treason which was culminated in open warfare against the Union could never have successfully organized for the contest. Every development of treason preparatory to the revolt was made in the name of Democracy.
Has time purged the Democracy of its disloyal elements? We apprehend not. We believe there are loyal men claiming to belong to it, but at the same time Vallandigham belongs to it, Voorhees belongs to it, Fernando Wood belongs, to it, Medary belongs to it, and we have never yet met a peace sneak or vile Copperhead, whose tongue was blabbing treason to the government which protects him, who did not claim to belong to it. Is not Vallandigham acknowledged by every Democrat as a member of his party? Is not the same the case with Voorhees, with Medary, and every other Northern and Border State sympathizer with the rebellion? Do these facts signify nothing? Can it be that the meeting of all the men of the North, who are untrue to the cause of the Government, within the folds of the Democratic party, is mere matter of accident? The circumstance is at least fit subject for

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITEDUNTIED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible>war power; and when your country is actually in war, whethter it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIALMARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in marital array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate  all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
reflection, and naturally begets a strong suspicion that all is not sound within the Democratic Denmark.
It is most true that, in a purely voluntary organization like a political party, the presence of bad men is not necessarily conclusive of corruption. No man can be precluded from calling himself a Democrat, a Whig, a Republican, or by any other name known to the political vocabulary, nor can he be prevented from voting its ticket; but the flocking of all men of a certain class-as for instance sympathizers with treason-to one party in preference to all others, is positive proof of something to be found there which meets their approval, and ministers to their hopes. It is like the gathering of foul birds to a feast of carrion. But, so far as the Democratic party is concerned, this affiliation of treason-lovers is more than a matter of omen. They come not as unbidden guests. They are welcomed with ovations and rejoicing, and they are indorsed by the masses of the party as the faithful expounders of their political faith. When and where, we would ask, has a Democratic leader been repudiated by his party, because be has made a disloyal speech, or otherwise done service to the rebellion? Has Alexander Long, of Ohio, been rejected by the Democrats of his district, because of his treasonable utterances in Congress? Has Voorhees, of Indiana, been discarded by the Democrats of his district for indorsing Long? In all the range of the party, has a single representative lost caste because of sympathy, actual or supposed, with the traitors of the Southern Confederacy? We allude to facts, and to facts which are as well established as the existence of the party itself.
When Vallandigham returned from his compulsory exile, where did he go, except straight to a Democratic convention? How he was welcomed with cheers and assurances of protection-how he was at once honored with a delegateship to the highest convention of the party-are matters of history. What has he to do-a recent wanderer through the realms of Secessia, where he was met only with smiles, and from which he parted with the "God speed" of traitors to cheer him on his way-the associate of Clay, and Holcomb, and George N. Sanders, and other rebel emissaries, and who returned to the soil of the Union breathing direst threats of resistance to its lawful Government-what has he to do, we ask, in a loyal party?
It is not a question whether the Democratic party is free from treason, for that none will claim, but whether treason or loyalty predominates therein, and which is to govern. Could there be a more humiliating reflection to a Democrat who is truly a loyal man? We can scarcely comprehend how such a man could have the patience to hold the balance between loyalty and treason, when testing the character of an organization to which he claimed to belong. But if any such Democrat there is, and he will undertake the task of weighing the elements composing the party, we opine small space will be required to convince him of its unsoundness. Let him set to one side the Vallandighams, the Fernando Woods, and all the men of that ilk holding high positions in Democratic ranks, and on the other all the truly loyal men he may know that musters there, putting McClellan, if he pleases, at their head, and we are much mistaken if he does not speedily find the preponderance of the former marked and formidable. Nor must it be lost sight of what is the real character of much of the professed War Democracy of the times-how much of it is the mere product of policy and the hollowest pretence. Let the associations of many of our so-called War Democrats answer, and the direction of their influence. Are they War Democrats, because they help to fight the battles of the war? Are they War Democrats, because they seek to uphold and strengthen the hands of the Government in the prosecution of the war? Are they War Democrats, because they denounce traitors, and oppose peace-on-any-terms men, and all other sympathizers with treason? Or are they not rather War Democrats, because they profess to support for political preferment some patriot like McClellan, who, while he wears the sword of a Major General in the service of his country, is engaged in bidding for the support of men who would rather see that sword buried in his own heart, than wielded for the suppression of the rebellion?
We might allude to the existence of the O. A. K., and other treasonable organization which find their strength within the bosom of the Democracy; but why seek to multiply proofs, when nothing is more manifest than that he who reposes his hopes for the Union upon the loyalty of the Democratic party leans upon a broken reed?-Missouri Democrat.
[From the Boston Traveller.]
GENERAL SHERMAN'S LETTER TO COLONEL SPOONER.
MESSRS. EDITORS:-The letter in the papers of the 13th inst., purporting to be written by Gen. W. T. Sherman to Col. Spooner, if genuine, is no credit to its author. Instead of civilly recognizing Mr. Spooner as a lawfully appointed agent for recruiting in rebel States, Gen. Sherman, with his usual passion for writing long letters, indulges in a little feeble wit, and then delivers seven extraordinary "opinions" relative to recruiting in the rebel States, and to the conscription law, which ought not to pass unchallenged. As to the first, that civilian agents about an army are a nuisance, Gen. Sherman is probably qualified to judge-but his second "opinion"-viz.: that the duty of citizens to fight for their country is too sacred a one to be peddled off by buying up the refuse of other States-contains an ill-timed sneer at the only humane provisions in a law of Congress passed after more discussion and deliberation, perhaps, than any measure for the last ten years. What difference does it make to Gen. Sherman or anybody else, whether A, who is drafted, serves in person, or sends B as a free and willing substitute? And if this substitute be a black man from a State now in rebellion, and his going saves us at home a valuable farmer or mechanic, is not the wisdom of this provision abundantly justified? As to the General's third and fourth opinion that it is unjust to the brave soldiers who are fighting to place them on a par with such recruits as Col. Spooner is collecting, and that the negro is in a transition state, and is not the equal of the white man-we can only say that any soldier, however brave, ought to feel honored to be placed side by side with men who fought as negroes did at Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend and Fort Wagner, and that the theory about the transition state may be correct, but that it is equally as probable that Gen. Sherman is in a transition state from profound hunkerism to a just appreciation of our present position. Truly, if Gen. Butler were out West, he would find that the "inveterate prejudice" he so much laments is not "gradually dying out." Negroes, even now, in the opinion of some officers, are not good enough to be killed.
Gen. Sherman further says that a universal draft would "separate the sheep from the goats," and "show who would fight for their country, and who would only talk." Such a draft would do no such thing. It would simply take a certain number of unwilling individuals, too poor to buy substitutes, and make them fight, whether they would or not. It surely is very hard, when a draft would certainly (at least, under the present law) bring so much trouble and misery in its train; and when people are so earnestly at work raising enormous sums of money, purchasing and putting in substitutes, and doing all in their power to ward off a draft-to have their efforts and plans sneered at and their enthusiasm chilled by so high an authority as Gen. Sherman. M.
To the descriptive sketches of members of Congress, on the last column of our fourth page, should have been added the following of

GEN. GARFIELD.
About as close to the Speaker's desk as he can get is another General, who, perhaps, cannot quite abandon his old fashion of being in the front. Looking just now more like a schoolmaster than a dashing officer; with hair so bright a brown that, in his boyhood, it must have looked as if drawn from a distaff, you would hardly suspect that the mild-eyed man, not tall and a little stout, in a short-skirted business coat, almost brief enough to be witty, who goes about as if he were mending pens for the scholars, could be James A. Garfield, of Ohio. His eyes do not flash swords, the germ of battle is all washed away, and he is no longer a star-bearer in the brilliant constellation of Rosecrans' staff, but, only and merely, "the gentleman from Ohio." He carries his head italicised-well thrown back, I mean-a head liberally rounded out in the propelling regions. Entering Congress with a soldier's prestige, if he has not attained the rank to which his advocates laid claim, it proves not so much his lack of ability as their excess of enthusiasm, for the two things in the world that require a handling the most unlike are words and swords.
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 1864. 
OUR"PARTISANSHIP" OF MR. LINCOLN.
A few weeks since, we published a letter from an old subscriber to the Liberator, Mr. BENJAMIN EMERSON, 2d, of Haverhill, in which, after preferring against us various false and splenetic accusations affecting our anti-slavery integrity, he ordered the immediate discontinuance of his paper. The "head and front of our offending" was a disagreement with him as to the approaching presidential struggle-he being hostile to the election of Mr. Lincoln, and we believing it essential to the suppression of the rebellion, the abolition of slavery, and the preservation of national unity, that Mr. Lincoln should receive the strongest possible loyal support at the polls in November next.
In our present number we insert a replication from Mr. Emerson, in answer to some animadversions we made to his former letter. A subscriber for thirty years to the paper which he has so summarily dropped, so well aware is he of our uniform fairness to those who dissent from us in allowing them to be heard in our columns, that he sends us this long rejoinder, expecting to see it promptly published as a matter of course. Yet, having printed his first accusatory letter and replied to it, he has in justice no further claim upon us. As a matter of indulgence, however, we print his second letter, which gives us the right to review it, and to terminate the discussion if we think proper. He knows that it is not our habit to prolong a controversy with any one, so effective do we regard a simple statement of the truth as against a flood of sophistical reasoning. If he wishes the last word, he can have it, though not entitled to it. But we submit to him, on the score of decency and manly behavior, whether having made his arraignment of our course and discontinued his subscription, it is for him to seek to occupy our columns with a reiteration of his defamatory allegations against us. Is this his appreciation of a free and independent press? In dropping the Liberator as a paper no longer worthy of his support, he sets an example which, if followed (and, of course, he would like to see it followed) by every other subscriber, would at once terminate its existence. As long as our columns are open to him, and to all others, to express sentiments adverse to our own, can he do better than to renew his subscription, that he may continue to enjoy the rare luxury of reading a paper winch allows all sides to be freely and fairly heard in its pages? Or, has he at last made the highly interesting discovery, that any dissent from his opinion-even where fair play is allowed him to the fullest extent-must forfeit his support of the journal thus presuming to differ? If he has read the subsequent numbers of the Liberator, he must have discovered in what estimation his conduct is held by persons at least as warmly devoted to the cause of the slave as himself; and also to what extent his withdrawal is likely to affect our subscription list.
But this is merely prefatory. Let us look at the justification of himself made by our Haverhill censor.
1. He accuses us of "electioneering for the reelection of Lincoln," which proves, he thinks, that we have "abandoned the cause of the slave."
To this we reply, that if to give the weight of our sympathy and influence to Mr. Lincoln's re-election makes us recreant to anti-slavery principles, then every other man who does so is also recreant; then Lovejoy and Giddings were recreant before they died; then Gerrit Smith and a host of others long conspicuous for their consecration to the abolition cause are recreant; then the loyal sentiment of the country, embodied and expressed in the Baltimore Convention which re-nominated Mr. Lincoln on the basis of the total abolition of slavery as essential to national safety and unity, is recreant; then Mr. Lincoln himself, for accepting such nomination, and desiring an amendment of the Constitution so as to render slave-holding an illegal and criminal act throughout the land, is recreant!
But if Mr. Lincoln is thus recreant, how does it happen that not a rebel in all the South, nor a Copperhead in all the North, are aware of the fact?-that their malignant hatred of him avowedly for no other reason than that he is determined upon the extermination of slavery, and is "a black-hearted abolitionist"?-that the one great issue to be met at the ballot-box in November is, whether the President's e mancipation policy shall stand or be repudiated, in relation to the rebel lion and the reconstruction of the Union? Have the enemies of impartial freedom lost their old pro-slavery instincts? Is it true that birds of a feather no longer flock together? If Mr. Lincoln were as ultra an abolitionist as Mr. Emerson modestly claims to be, could he be more bitterly denounced or more furiously opposed by the conjoined copperhead and rebel elements of the country? And while he holds a position which arrays against him all these elements, doubtless soon to culminate in such an outbreak of sedition and violence as few yet dream of, is he to be also ostracised by the professed friends of universal emancipation? Is this to be actuated by principle or guided by common sense? When the traitors of the South, or their yet more base accomplices at the North, shall begin to speak decently of Mr. Lincoln, and to take sides with him as against General Fremont, will it not be quite soon enough to suspect his honesty of purpose and question the ability of his administration?
Granted that all has not been done for the colored population, bond and free, for which the Abolitionists contend. Granted that these afflicted and oppressed people have many grievances yet to be redressed, to the reproach of the government and the shame of the nation. Granted that there is more or less of confusion and paradox in the conduct of military superiors and inferiors towards the negroes within their jurisdiction or under their authority. What then? Is the President to be fairly held answerable for this? Is not the primary difficulty in the popular prejudice against the negro race? And is there not another side to the shield? Has not wonderful progress been made, in many ways, in breaking the fetters of the millions in bondage, and solemnly decreeing that they shall be "forever free"? Is the annihilation of more than three fourths of the accursed slave system by the edict of Abraham Lincoln no cause for jubilation? Is the unanimous committal of the loyal sentiment of the country to the entire abolition of slavery, and to its constitutional prohibition to the end of time, not a cheering sign of the times? Is the cleansing of the District of Columbia from its slaveholding and slave-trading pollution and blood nothing? Is the recognition of the right of colored persons to give testimony and defend their rights in the courts of the United States nothing? Is the acknowledgment by Congress and the Government of the independence of Hayti and Liberia nothing? Is the enrolment of a hundred thousand negro soldiers under the national flag, and to put down the rebellion and ITS CAUSE-even though they are not allowed the full pay of white soldiers-nothing? Is the repeal of those abhorrent acts, the Fugitive Slave Bills of 1850 and 1793, whereby slave-hunting ceases to be legalized, nothing? Is the treaty with Great Britain for the effectual suppression of the foreign slave trade, by a common right of search, nothing? Are not all these sublime measures combined far beyond what the most sanguine advocates of emancipation ventured to assume as possible-ay, and within a period of less than two years? Or are they to be flippantly cast aside, or contemptuously slurred over, on the specious pretence of superior anti slavery vigilance and fidelity? Who put his hand and seal heartily and promptly to them all, when he could have defeated them all by the veto power? Who but ABRAHAM LINCOLN? And if for so doing-and for nothing else-he has roused
<c03>
against him all who are resolved upon the degradation and enslavement of the negro race, and if hell itself howls and shrieks at his presence, is it for those who claim to be on the side of loyalty and freedom to join with his satanic foes in attempting to cover him with odium, and to break down his administration in a crisis like this? For ourselves, by our allegiance to God, by our pledges to the oppressed, by the heartfelt interest we take in the welfare and stability of the whole country, we will be guilty of no such folly. Never were we more satisfied that we are pursuing the course dictated by the soundest policy, the highest wisdom, and the sternest adhesion to principle, than now. Division upon rival candidates for the Presidency, among the loyal portion of the people, is next to damnation. It may defeat Mr. Lincoln's election, but it cannot secure that of Gen. Fremont or any other but a pseudo peace, doubly-traitorous copper-head. It cannot ensure victory to the cause of Liberty and Union as "one and inseparable," and in all probability it will lead to the most deplorable consequences. To seek to promote it, no matter on what pretext, is nothing but sheer infatuation. To foster it, by every conceivable artifice, is what the seditious democracy of the North will labor assiduously to do, as the only possible chance of seizing the reins of government, and bringing back" the reign of chaos and old night."
This is our view of the state of affairs; and if it is "electioneering for the reelection of Lincoln," we do not at all object to the imputation; for we have indulged in similar "electioneering" ever since we became an Abolitionist. In consequence of the rebellion, Mr. Lincoln stands on broader anti-slavery grounds than did Owen Lovejoy, Joshua R. Giddings, or Charles Sumner, when they were candidates for Congress; yet, as against their venomous pro-slavery opponents, and accepting their nominations as signs of a growing sentiment hostile to the further extension of slavery, if not to its abolition, we hailed their election, even under the old "covenant with death and agreement with hell." So we stood by" the old man eloquent," John Quincy Adams, and did what we could to cheer his heart and strengthen his hands while the stormy wrath of the Southern lords of the lash, in Congress, was beating pitilessly upon his naked head for defending the sacred right of petition without respect of persons; notwithstanding that, at that very time, he avowed his opposition to the prayer of the petitioners, who supplicated for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. Was this to be a "political partisan," or to "abandon the cause of the slave"? Or was it not a proof of good sense and clear discrimination-judging sagaciously as to the value of persons and the relation of events to the godlike cause that was so dear to us-recognizing the fact that where the assault of the slavocracy was fiercest for the time being, there was the vital point to be maintained-and remembering that the law of development and progress is, "first the blade, then the ear, then the corn fully ripe," and "not despising the day of small things"? What public man has been, or is at this hour, more detested, proscribed, vilified and feared, by the traffickers in human flesh, or by their copperhead abettors, with reference to the slavery question, than Abraham Lincoln? Whose election is so dreaded by them as the token of their perdition as his? With what other man are they not willing to run the risk of success or defeat than himself? Against whom are they so openly gnashing their teeth, and cursing by all their gods, on the ground that he is a "d-d Abolitionist," whose only concern is to "free the niggers," and not to conciliate the South? Who has had such trials to endure, such perils to encounter, at their hands as Mr. Lincoln? Is it not undeniable that "hell from beneath is moved" to defeat him at the mighty trial of strength in November? Do not the rebel journals and rebel leaders avow that their only hope is in his discomfiture? Added to much other evidence of their state of mind is the testimony of Brig. Gen. T. Seymour, who has just been released from "under fire" at Charleston, an old West Point officer and a Democrat, but not of the copperhead stripe, and who, in an instructive letter to W. E. Dodge, Jr., Esq., of New York, gives his "impressions of the present condition of the Southern Confederacy." He says that "the rebel cause is fast failing from exhaustion it is nearly time that it should end, and of sheer depletion it must end before long" and emphatically adds:—
"Disappointed from the first in not having been acknowledged by foreign Powers-more bitterly disappointed in their general expectation that Northern cowardice or dissension would secure their ends-but a single chance remains, and that is the result of our next election for President. If a Democrat succeeds to Mr. Lincoln, they profess to feel sure of negotiations, and sure of their Confederacy. They believe a Democrat will be elected. In Mr. Lincoln's re-election they see only subjugation, annihilation, for the war must then continue, and continuance is their failure and ruin.
In military affairs it is an excellent rule never to do what the enemy desires-is it not equally true in politics? Certain it is that the only remaining hope of the South lies in Mr. Lincoln's defeat."
Can any anti-slavery man justify himself in so acting to secure Mr. Lincoln's defeat as to give fruition to "the only remaining hope of the South"? Turn to the "Refuge of Oppression" on our first page, and see what maledictions are poured upon the head of the President by the Southern traitors and their Northern accomplices! In view of such ferocious assaults,-which are, in fact, splendid testimonials to the patriotism of the assailed,-of what avail is it for such cavillers as Mr. Emerson to declaim about the "incompetency" of Mr. Lincoln to accuse him of having "no settled principle of action, "treated the best friends of the country unjustly," trusted too much to men of doubtful loyalty," and" nearly ruined the country by refusing to use the means at his command for putting down the rebellion," &c., &c., &c.? What boots it that outcries are made at this late hour because Fremont's edict, emancipating some thousands of slaves, was deemed premature by the President, seeing that Mr. Lincoln has since liberated more than three millions of slaves, and under his sanction so many grand anti-slavery measures have been carried? What sense is there in dwelling upon what has long since become obsolete? What has the resignation of Mr. Chase to do in warranting a rival political movement to defeat Mr. Lincoln's election, the only result of which, in all human probability, can be to give success to the nominee of the Chicago Convention? Such issues the rebels South and the copperheads North laugh in their sleeves to see made by professedly loyal men, and they eagerly circulate them as the best means of accomplishing their ends; for unless they can divide the ranks of the loyal, they cannot conquer.
Mr. Emerson thinks a solution for the copperhead good-will manifested toward Fremont and his nomination is to be found in the scriptural passage,,-"When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him." We believe the Lord has no hand in the matter.
In his first letter, Mr. Emerson accused us of "garbling" the speeches of Mr. Phillips in the quotations we made from them. This we denied, not with any "ire" or "apparent wrath," but with pardonable earnestness, challenging our accuser to show wherein we had done injustice to Mr. Phillips. Instead of accepting the challenge, he attempts to escape from his scandalous imputation by saying that the word" garbling" only means, (according to Webster,)"to pick out or separate such parts from a whole as may serve a purpose," and therefore "does not imply anything wrong"! Pitiful subterfuge! Why then did he bring it against us as proof of unfair and dishonorable dealing on our part? The popular use of the word implies and means, artfully picking out words or sentences so as to make a writer or speaker seem to utter sentiments the very reverse of what his essay or speech inculcated. But Mr. Emerson takes it all back; and we take our leave of him, hoping that, on a calm review of his other charges against us, he will be equally prompt to cancel them as fully.
<c04>
LETTER FROM BENJAMIN EMERSON.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The Liberator of July 29th is before me. Your remarks make it proper that I should give the reasons why I came to the conclusion, that your electioneering for the re-election of Lincoln proved that you had abandoned the cause of the slave.
This will make it necessary for me to enter more minutely into the official conduct of the President than I should otherwise wish to. If it appears, from a close examination of his whole course to the present time, that he is and has been ready to deal out justice to all classes of his subjects, and is competent to the task, then my criticisms are unjust; but if it appears that he is incompetent, has no settled principle of action, has treated the best friends of the country unjustly, has trusted too much to men of doubtful loyalty, and has nearly ruined the country by refusing to use the means at his command for putting down the rebellion, &c., then my strictures were just.
Before I proceed to criticise Lincoln's administration, I will give a passing notice to the remarks you make upon my statement, that "you attempted, in the New England Convention, by your garbled quotations from Wendell Phillips's speeches, to make it appear that he had contradicted himself." You pronounce this "a false charge," and say it implies positive dishonesty. I thought, first, that your resentment was caused by what I considered the object. If it was, and I was mistaken, you can (if you choose) inform your readers, through the Liberator, what it was. But in reading further, I concluded that the word garbled was what excited your ire I will here state, that I used that word because I thought it expressed the act most correctly, in the shortest way. Why it should cause so much apparent wrath, I cannot imagine. The word (according to Webster) means, "To pick out or separate such parts from a whole as may serve a purpose." It does not imply anything wrong. I would only add, that if you made such an extensive collection of sentences and parts of sentences from Mr. Phillips's, speeches without having any "purpose," you must be laboring under some strange "hallucination"; and, if that is the case, the wish you so kindly express for me I most fully reciprocate for you, and hope you may yet be found 
"clothed, and sitting in your right mind." And I earnestly pray that it may take place long enough before the November election to give you a chance to counteract some of the bad effects of your labor for Lincoln.
Lincoln, in selecting officers for the army, gave a large proportion of commissions to men who were strong sympathizers with the rebellion. Most of those officers, when the slaves came to their lines, refused to receive them, and told them to go back and work for their masters. When slave-owners missed their slaves, they were allowed to come into our lines and search for them ; and, when found, to take them back. In fact, our officers became watch-dogs for slaveholders. I never yet learned of any rebuke from the President to any of his officers for any of their abuses of the fugitives; and some of the abuses were such as would make a savage blush.
Lincoln soon manifested a desire to retain his office for another term or more, by showing his jealousy of some who, he might be conscious, were more deserving of trust than he was; and he appeared determined to crush their influence, if possible.
I wish first to glance at the case of Fremont:—
"Fremont was in Paris when the tidings of the rebellion reached him. He left at once, and arrived in New York on the 21st of June, 1861. On the 9th of July he was commissioned a Major General, and appointed to the command of the West-comprising Illinois, and the States and Territories west of the Mississippi, including New Mexico, with his headquarters at St. Louis. The task allotted him was to expel the rebels from the soil comprised within his command, and to free the course of the Mississippi from the lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. Fremont's total resources consisted of arms for about twenty-three thousand men, which he had collected with great difficulty. He had no sooner reached St. Louis than the Government ordered these arms to be sent to the army of the Potomac, then commanded by McClellan.
Fremont's position was truly critical. He had the honor and the responsibility of the second command in the Republic, with a splendid programme to carry out, but no arms and no army. There was not a single sabre in the St. Louis arsenal. His political rivals had drawn him into a dangerous snare, upon the pretext of meeting the will of the people; and as a token of the confidence of the Government, he had been appointed to one of the two great commands; but the means to justify that confidence, and to meet the exigencies of the situation, were altogether denied him.
The following letter from the Postmaster General, in reply to the demands addressed by Fremont to the Government, fully exhibits the state of affairs existing:—
'I have received your two dispatches, but I find it impossible to fix the attention of the Government upon Missouri and the state of affairs at the West. Act for the best, and assume every responsibility that events may render necessary to defend and encourage the people that you are called upon to protect.
(Signed,) BLAIR, Postmaster General.'
Fremont acted upon the discretionary order above, and again collected troops. As his popularity was great, the soldiers flocked to his standard; but Government constantly devised means to embarrass him.
Fremont proposed to march in person to the relief of Col. Mulligan, (who was defending Lexington,) at the head of the last five thousand men left him, when an order reached him from Washington directing him to send these five thousand men immediately to McClellan, to reinforce the army of the Potomac, which was already over seventy thousand strong. It was in vain that Fremont remonstrated to the Government the danger of withdrawing these five thousand men from him; a second despatch, more imperative than the first, forced him to obey. He did obey, and Lexington surrendered. The town was captured on the 20th of September. On the 28th, Fremont began his campaign with all the troops that he could collect after the incessant drafts made upon him by the army of the Potomac. On the 30th, Price fell back before Sigel, who commanded Fremont's advance guard. On the 15th of October, Lexington was recovered; and on the 29th of October, Price was so hemmed in at Newsho, in the southwestern extremity of the contested State, that he was forced either to give battle or abandon the State. This time Fremont succeeded in getting his orders executed, and the divisions of Asboth and Lane effected a junction. In the ranks of these commands were two hundred negroes, the first colored troops employed during the war. Every thing promised a decisive victory. The engagement was to take place on the 3d of November, at daybreak. But on the 2d, the General received a letter from Washington, relieving him from his command, and directing him to deliver up the troops to General Hunter. The result was, Hunter withdrew his forces without fighting, and Missouri was again given up, undefended, to the vengeance and depredations of the rebels."
I will now look at the case of Secretary Chase, and see how he was rewarded for his fidelity:—
"No one will need to be informed that when Frank Blair had, from his fraudulently obtained seat in the House, denounced Mr. Chase's public and private character, had assailed his personal integrity, and had done his best to break down the Government credit, and when within twenty-four hours after this assault Constitution and law had been violated to make him a Major-General, the Secretary naturally felt he could no longer honorably remain in the. Cabinet. The Ohio delegation in Congress, accompanied by Governor Brough, waited upon him to remonstrate against his intended resignation. He asked them if they would remain there under such circumstances. They said, 'No.' He said, 'Then you ask me to do that which none of you would do yourselves?' They said, 'We do.' He did make the sacrifice. The investigation ordered to silence his assailants, Frank Blair and James Brooks, went on; Mr. Chase offered every facility; and on the 29th of June, the majority of the Committee (Mr. Fenton disagreeing in no essential point) adopted a report, fully vindicating Mr. Chase in every particular. Mr. Blair's hostility was now more open, pronounced and earnest than ever. A thousand indications served unmistakably to show the influence he was exerting over the mind of the President. At this juncture, Mr. Cisco, long United States Sub-Treasurer at New York, tendered his resignation. This office is believed to be the most important one of the kind entrusted independently to a single man in any government. Twenty millions a day sometimes, fifteen millions very often, pass through it. For a position so delicate and responsible, Mr. Chase naturally wanted a man in whom he could place the fullest confidence. Finally, he fell,-upon the name of Mr. Manuel B. Field, present Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, long Mr. Cisco's
<c05>
deputy, and, consequently, more familiar than any other man could be with the duties of the office. All the New York Representatives united in recommending him. But Gov. E. D. Morgan, late Chairman of the Executive Committee that called the Baltimore Convention, had candidates of his own and he presented the names of three to Mr. Chase and to the President. Of these three, one is said to be over seventy years of age; and the second, a retired lottery dealer, who, when his State made his business illegal, quietly moved over to Jersey City, and continued it, is about sixty. The third lives in the interior, of the State, and is but little known to New York business men.
"Mr. Chase, however, made no objections to Gov. Morgan's candidates, except that he failed to see peculiar qualifications in any of them for so responsible an office; and proceeded to urge that, in a case like this, at least fitness, for the office, and not political balances of patronage, should be the primary requisite. Mr. Lincoln replied that he had had a great deal of trouble among his friends, in consequence of Mr. Chase's appointments in New York, and he trusted that Mr. Chase would not add to it by insisting on an appointment like this. He sent him the three names Gov. Morgan had selected, and hoped he would either select one of them, or some other one with whom Gov. Morgan and Senator Harris should be satisfied. Mr. Chase replied, giving his views as to the necessity of filling such an office with one in whom the Department had perfect confidence, and for whom it could afford to be held responsible; and suggested that, as political considerations embarrassed the President, he would be glad to go up and have a conversation with him on the subject. Mr. Lincoln replied, declining the proposed interview with his principal cabinet officer.
"Meantime, Mr. Chase had telegraphed Mr. Cisco, begging, him to withdraw his resignation, owing to the difficulty of finding at once a suitable successor; and Mr. Cisco had at length complied with his request. The whole question of the appointment of Mr. Field or anybody else was, therefore, removed.
"But the issue between the President and the Secretary as to the principle which should govern such appointments was too radical to admit any expectation that Mr. Chase could continue to administer the Department in harmony with Mr. Lincoln's wishes; and the refusal to have an interview with his Cabinet minister was, of course, evidence of Mr. Lincoln's desire to be relieved of him."
Mr. Chase, therefore, sent in his resignation. The President accepted it.
You are ready to protect Lincoln from charges of want of justice to the colored man, or other wrongs, by his constitutional obligations or his oath of office ; but it is plain by the extracts above, and by other things on record, that Constitution or law has never stood in his way of ambition for self aggrandizement. He has managed the affairs of the government (apparently) with more reference to reelection, and a desire to put down those whom he thought might be rivals, than to any other object. Witness his complicity with Frank Blair in receiving his resignation of his military commission, to give him a chance to be elected to Congress, with the understanding that he might resume it again, which he did:- a most palpable violation of the Constitution.
Look at his sending the slaves back to their masters to work for them, to enable them to send all of their white population to fight us; and pursuing this course until the country was nearly shipwrecked. Will you tell us whether this was treason? His injustice to the colored soldiers is reproved in a letter addressed to him by Gov. Andrew, dated May 18th. The soldiers had then been kept out of their pay for twelve months, and many of them longer. Lincoln promised the colored soldiers the same protection as white soldiers, and they have been enlisted under that promise. When any of them have been captured by the rebels, however, they have been murdered with all the torture that the malice of fiends could invent, and they continue to do it; but Lincoln has never, to my knowledge, taken the first step to put a stop to it, although he has always had the means in his hands. If he will thus violate his official promise, who is safe under his administration?
You say, in your strictures on my letter, "The democratic principle, that the people have a right to choose their own rulers, remains to be vindicated in the reelection of Abraham Lincoln." Magnanimous! But if the people think that four years' trial has sufficiently proved the incapacity of the present incumbent of the White House, and that the safety of our institutions requires a change, and that John C. Fremont is the safest man to put there, what then? You say it is neither wise nor justifiable to press the claims of any rival candidate at that time. It is possible that the people will convince you, next November, that they dissent from you, and claim the privilege to make their own selection.
I notice that you frequently hold up the argument, so often brought forward by other supporters of Lincoln, "that copperhead sheets giving Fremont the preference io Lincoln, ranks him with them." I am glad you can find no better argument against him. I think I can give you a more correct reason. I have read in an old book, "When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him." BENJAMIN EMERSON, 2d.
Haverhill, August, 1864.
ADDITIONAL WORDS OF CHEER.
VALLEY FALLS, 8th mo., 20th, 1864.
ESTEEMED FRIEND W. L. GARRISON, Enclosed I forward a check for twenty-five dollars, in aid of the Liberator; especially in its present efforts to reclaim and restore our friends who appear to me to have fallen into the snare of New Organization, as did Arthur Tappan and divers others in former years hoping that they may be favored to see, regret and acknowledge their error, as heartily as did the first President of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in his letter to thee under date of November 17th, 1863, which please republish in the same column with this.
Thy friend, HARVEY CHASE.
The following is the letter referred to by our much esteemed friend Chase:—
NEW HAVEN, Nov. 17,1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:-
DEAR SIR,-Few events could give me so much pleasure as the receipt of your note of the 12th inst. During the years that have intervened since we last met, I have often recalled the time when we were united in working for the slave, and regretted that any occurrence should have estranged us from each other.
I shall be glad to attend the meeting at Philadelphia, but my advanced age (78th year) and growing infirmities may prevent.
I am, truly, your friend,
ARTHUR TAPPAN.
PHILADELPHIA, 8th mo., 20th, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND,,-I desire to add a postscript to my respects of the,13th inst., and enclose six dollars for two new subscribers. They heard I was about to close up the gap caused by the two seceders, and remarked "With both hands we will subscribe to the Liberator."
This is but an evidence of the reaction of the times. Wherever the influence of thy great truths is felt, there cometh a response to strengthen thy hands and encourage thy heart. That it may continue so to be is the earnest wish of thy friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.
MONKTON, (Vt.,) August 20, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:-
ESTEEMED FRIEND, Inclosed are three dollars to pay my subscription for the Liberator.
Allow me to say, I regret that any, especially old subscribers, who acknowledge their indebtedness to the Editor of that paper for the elements of their anti-slavery sentiments, should now "lift up the heel against him," on the plea that he has deserted his first principles of" liberty and justice." I have taken the pains to compare some of the late numbers with the corresponding dates twenty years ago, (1844,) and I confess I am unable to discover in what particular "It has fallen by the way" since that time. I regret, also, that any of my fellow Anglo-Americans, who felt is natural "to pass from the Chartist papers of England to the paper over which Mr. Garrison presided," should now desert the Pioneer, just as the sickle is reaping the harvest of thirty years' plowing and sowing. If the Liberator has any more readers of that
<c06>
class who are half inclined to follow the leading of R. T. B., I want to say a word to them.
More than thirty years ago, I came to this country, by no means clear of the tincture of Chartism. I had used my pen somewhat in its defence, had been snubbed, and thought it better to come to this country where I could be free from the tyranny of an aristocracy than uselessly contend with men with whom "might was right." I came, and soon became acquainted with the Liberator; and in my humble way, as Secretary of an Anti-Slavery Society that followed very much in its wake, was a co-worker with it. Circumstances occurred that reminded me of the possibility of devoting so much of my attention to Anti-Slavery and kindred subjects, as to neglect other important matters. I bought a small farm, went to work as a reformer of rough land, dropt some of my newspapers, and endeavored to carry out, as far as practicable, a sentiment, highly approved by the Abolitionists of England, and endorsed by the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society, agreed on at Philadelphia in 1833,-that is, the duty of abstaining from the use of slave grown productions. But the mass of the people sniffed at the idea. The remonstrances of Elihu Burritt, and Gerrit Smith, and the "handful" of their associates, were unheeded. Emancipation would be looked for only from "church action," which proved a broken staff to lean upon; or from stringent political action, that peace-men predicted would end in blood. That prediction is now being fulfilled, and the inflexible law worked out-"He that soweth the wind shall reap the whirlwind."
The severe criticisms, of the Liberator on the apathy of the churches were attributed, by many, to a hatred of othodoxy rather than a love of the slave; hence it failed of producing the desired conviction on church-members; and no other alternative seemed to be left but either to settle down quietly under Southern rule, or stir up the embers of self-government.
We have suffered ourselves to drift through the peaceful times in which it was possible to effect a settlement of the "vexed question" without the effusion of blood; but the masses turned a deaf ear to that proposition, and we are now whirling in the vortex of civil war, and every one inquires, "What will be the end?" No one can say with certainty what the end will be; but of this we may rest assured, that the services of an honest, man at the helm, who has been tried, are much more to be desired than those of another one, equally honest and well-disposed as the untried man may be. Accordingly, a peace man as I am, I do hope that Abraham Lincoln will be selected, and am willing to throw in my mite in support of a paper that supports that candidate.
Respectfully, your friend,
HENRY MILES.
SALEM, Columbiana Co., (O.) Aug. 12, 1864.
MR. ROBERT F. WALLCUT:
DEAR SIR-I see in reading the last Liberators, that a few men have become dissatisfied with Mr. Garrison's course respecting the administration of President Lincoln, and have consequently ordered a discontinuance of their papers. They charge, that Mr. Garrison has descended from his high moral position, and has become a political partisan contestant. The New Nation, (a Copperhead sheet,) calls him "the fallen chief," drunk with the wine of human expediency," &c. I consider such charges not only false, but inapt and slanderous. I have taken and read the Liberator for some twenty-eight years, and have yet to discover any such divergencies from the true track that these accusers raise such lamentations over. The whole difficulty with these persons is, that Mr. Garrison is favorable to the reelection of Abraham Lincoln. Now this is just the trouble with Jeff. Davis, Horatio Seymour, and Clement L. Vallandigham, down to the lowest type of the dregs of Democracy. Any thing that seems to them unfavorable to the reelection of the President they" roll as a sweet morsel under their tongues." It is more than manna to such treason-steeped souls as Vallandigham. Now, anything that gives them comfort, in this particular, gives me sorrow. I know this is a safe rule to go by. I do not look upon President Lincoln as a man without faults, (who is without such?) but I look upon him as the representative of sublime principles-principles that lie at the foundation of true government. He is pledged to put down this accursed rebellion, and the cause of it, and I believe he will do it. The man who made this declaration to the Kentucky delegation-"Gentlemen, you mean slavery shall live, I mean it shall die"-who nobly said-"The nation's pledge to the slave must be kept"-is good enough for me for President, four years more.
I send you five dollars in this letter, (as a donation,) to aid this "fallen chief" in the continuance of the Liberator-a paper dear to me in many points, and one, not least, is that of advocating the greatest toleration and largest liberality in matters of opinion; fully believing that it would be well for this nation, in this the "Gethsemane of her mortal agony," if she had many such "fallen chiefs."
Thine for the largest freedom, both physically and mentally, JOHN GORDON.
NATCHEZ, (Miss.) July 27, 1864.
MR. GARRISON-I observe that a sharp contest is going on in New England among the pioneer Abolitionists there, in reference to the next Presidency. A soldier, having had some opportunity for judging of the popular feeling in the army, would beg leave to say, first, it is evident that Gen. Fremont is not in sympathy with the people, and that (however meritorious the platform may be on which he stands) he cannot be elected. Second, it is evident that President Lincoln possesses more political strength with the people than any other candidate that could be selected from the Union party. Third, to cause any considerable division in the Union forces so as to throw the Government into the hands of the opposition would, at least, be hazardous if not fatal to the Union and the cause of civil liberty. Fourth, Mr. Lincoln is already committed to a line of policy that will, if successful, accomplish the great object for which the Abolitionists have labored for the last thirty years. Fifth, Mr. Lincoln occupies as ultra a position on the slavery question as he can, and be sustained or elected by the people. Sixth, Mr. Lincoln's known integrity of character and patriotism is a sufficient guarantee against any willful encroachments on his part on the principles of civil liberty or free institutions, that will in the least permanently impair the constitutional rights of any American citizen. He may, or may not, (for aught I know,) have made mistakes in regard to the arrest of citizens suspected of treason, and the suspension of the writ of laborers corpus, but no well-informed, candid man will pretend that the President has been actuated by unworthy motives in doing so. Nor will any one pretend, that when this rebellion is put down, and this Government restored, he will not leave those essential principles of free government to the people unimpaired. Seventh, this is no time for faction among the friends of free government. The stake is too great, the consequences of defeat too appalling, for any man who loves justice and the cause of human redemption to be captious or too critical. Let us take the least chances that present themselves for saving the Government, and then let each man do his best, and trust consequences with God.
WM. THIRDS, 64th U. S. C. I.
Extract from a letter from a lady who has occupied a prominent position in the anti-slavery lecturing field at the West:-
"I have not seen the Liberator or Standard for several weeks past, and do not know how you regard the Presidential question of late. But when last I saw your paper, I was very glad that you still had faith in the Administration-or, perhaps it would be better to say, in God and the people. I believe that we are more safe in the hands of Mr. Lincoln than we shall be in the hands, of a disloyal man or a copper-head.
"No one desires peace more than I do, but not at
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the peril of universal liberty; and that cannot be wrought out at once, and by victories alone. The very men who clamor for a speedy triumph, through a Napoleon who can seize the helm of government, and take us into a peaceful and safe harbor, have not yet rid themselves of prejudice against the colored man, and the belief in the right of intellect or aristecracy to rule.
"Many of these grumblers are opposed to Mr. Lincoln because he is a common man. I find that the universal feeling in Washington among Secessionists and weak and weary Republicans. There are others who dislike him for reasons. But it would be better, in this dislike of him, I think, to see that rebellion is eating out the vitals of the Government; and though it were a virtue to hate President Lincoln, that can not bring an army into the field, nor crush treason out of the Northern heart. What we want is a united public sentiment of endurance-endurance of hard labor, and endurance of the President's faults-faith in ourselves, and faith in God; and we surely shall, at length, when the pain is sorest, bring into national existence universal liberty. This is my faith, and I fear not."

CELEBRATION OF W. I. EMANCIPATION AT KEOKUK, IOWA.
KEOKUK, (Iowa,) Aug. 15, 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I know that it would have made your heart glad to have been with the colored people of Keokuk on the 1st of August. They got up a celebration which did them credit; and when I looked upon them as they surrounded the platform, and remembered that nearly the whole of them a short time ago were in slavery, but now were really free men, women and children, I could not help saying to myself, "What a blessed promise this is of the good time coming!" I was glad of the opportunity to be in their midst, to see what I did see, and to speak encouraging words to them .
They had a band of music to escort them out of the city to the grove, and most of the females were dressed in white, with head- dresses and sashes composed of our national colors. Their banners and transparencies bore appropriate mottoes, such as- "West India Emancipation, 1824"-"800,000 Liberated "-" The Right Way the Safe Way "-" God on the side of Justice "-"The Right Way the Safe Way"-"God says, 'Let the oppressed go free' "-&c-. &c. As they marched through our main business street, a gentleman told me that he had not seen a more beautiful sight in Keokuk. A goodly number of these negroes came here from Missouri; some, however, are from the lower Southern States. But as far as I can learn, they conduct themselves like men and women. Give them work, and they will take care of themselves. There was no evidence on the first of August that they lacked either money or self-respect. They have their enemies here, and a few years ago this celebration would not have been tolerated. But, thank God, their friends are multiplying. Last Sunday, I visited one of their Sabbath-schools, and was pleased to see so many citizens and soldiers teaching children and adults. But if we can only help them a little, I believe they will soon help themselves.
Let me say before I close this short letter, that those of us here who have known you, and have felt an interest in the great work you were doing, rejoice in the noble and patriotic course you have pursued once the commencement of this war. We do not believe that you are sacrificing freedom to policy or principle to politics, or that you have sold yourself to a government or a party. We should blush to entertain even a doubt of your integrity, and we feel sure that the men who can entertain such a doubt, and are therefore ready to drop the Liberator, are more illiberal and one-sided than broad and generous. Can they possess anything like charity of fairness even, when they can look with suspicion upon the course of one who for so many years, through good report and evil report, has been unflinchingly the friend of the slave? Can such men possess comprehensive views, when to obtain their endorsement they demand, even in the presence of the vast strides which have been taken forward, the surrender of hope in the future? Must every man be an everlasting croaker to the friend of freedom? Shame on such narrowness! Deliver me from being a reformer, if I am to be a bigot!
Put me down for another Liberator-one of those given up recently by your stanch friends and life-long admirers. I will inform you soon where to send it. 
Yours, R. HASSALL.

LEGISLATION FOR THE FREEDMEN.
WASHINGTON August 19, 1864.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND,-I have been strongly impressed to remain in Washington, and make every effort in my power to secure the attention of our law-makers to the imperious demands of the Freedmen for legislation.
I have thoroughly investigated the condition and wants of Freedmen, under the protection of Government, through its military agents, and also those who are living in an unprotected way in this city, depending wholly upon themselves for shelter, and bread, and clothes. After three months' examination, in which time I have seen them in every condition of want-from their first landing, sitting in the sand, with their babies hovering round them, without shelter or bread, 'through all the varieties and grades, up to comparative comfort and independence,-I conclude, without hesitation, that with assistance from the friends of the Freedmen, and cooperation from Government, in protecting them against the control and the frauds of any and all who wish to usurp authority over them in regard to their homes, labor and children, this independence is their proper status of rights, and duties, and the only one that will give them satisfaction, and secure their confidence in our Government and people. Indeed, I am astonished at the self-reliance and thrift that they possess, under these insurmountable difficulties.
Two hundred of these poor things were landed here a few nights since, coming from King and Queen's Co., Va. I saw them in the morning. At all these arrivals-and they have been daily till quite <illegible>-there is an order to land them at Mason's island or Arlington Heights, instead of in the city; the <illegible> of those who came before them are open, and they show them in most generously, I assure you; and so I found, on this occasion, most had found lodging but a group of families had not, and were sitting on the ground in the rear of a row of cabins. A woman with a babe three weeks old, and four others, all babies, turned her large, hopeful eyes to me, and asked, "Do you think I shall find some work to-morrow, madam? I have fifteen dollars, our money, but I can't get a cabin or any bread with that. I reckon 'taint good for much here; but if I can find washing to-morrow, and get fifty cents for it, madam, I think the worst will be over." I inquired after her husband. "O, Government wanted him, and he's been working for 'em this long time; but if I get work, I can take care of the children." I find that the general feeling, both among those independent of the Government and those under its care-that freedom will be realized to them, when they find marketable <illegible>. There is no despair, though there is much suffering among them.
Patience and great effort are required to work out a system for the extension of that relief and protection to them which is their due from the Government, because the Government and the people must be educated to the fact that they are freed men. Even the Bureau bill, in the hands of our wisest legislatures, did not steer clear of apprenticeship in fact, though they did in form; and the present commercial agents, into whose hands they have now been passed on have, in their rules and regulations, left no opportunity for the freedman to have absolute control of his person or his labor; while the contractor for his work has the advantage of the bargain, and the agent superintending has the irresponsible management of
<c02>
the immense fund, collected by a tax upon the Freedmen's labor, called sometimes " an Indigent Fund " for the sick and poor among them, which in no case, I believe, has yet been disbursed for their relief. Mr. Mellen, the General Agent of the Treasury. Department, has now in his hands, I am told, $800,000, collected in the Mississippi valley, that should have been disbursed long ago. And this cannot be. reached. Judge Johnson and Solicitor Whiting, J. W. Joliffe, of Cincinnati, and many other highly reputable gentlemen who have a large collection of startling facts in the shape of correspondence with reliable men from the Yazoo up to Cincinnati, relative to the collection and capture of property, licenses to trade, &c., consider, the whole business, as at present conducted,-, the most stupendous system of robbery, fraud and outrage that was ever carried on in this or any other Government. And now the Freedmen are also thrown completely into their hands. Unless we can secure the appointment of men who are honest, and comprehend that these men are now free by the laws of the country, and are to be treated as men, having their rights guarantied in the Proclamation of the President, in addition to the Higher Law which is over all, and' gives to the Proclamation its validity,-,—unless we can bring some influence to bear on the Treasury Department, there can be no safety' to the Freedmen or to his friends who desire to give him relief and education.
The delegation from the Northwestern Freed men's Commission- embracing all the Freedmen's Associations of the West- after seeing Mr. Lincoln, and finding that he could do nothing for the protection of their efforts and the people's money, sent to give relief to these poor sufferers in the valley of the Mississippi, felt that their only hope was in getting an increased number of Commercial Agents, with a General Agent to remain here in Washington, having the management of Freedmen's matters exclusively. This is all the bill will allow. If we can get this, it will be a safeguard, at least, and allow of a generous cooperation of Freedmen's Associations and the Government. The Northwestern Commission give their official support to this measure, as do Congressmen Foot, Wade, Sumner, Julian, Eliot, and several others. R. D. Owen also concurs in this, emphatically, that agents should be appointed for this work with reference, to their qualifications for this very purpose; and we are collecting a large amount of influence, that we hope may affect the Secretary in our favor.
J. S. G.

NOTE FROM REV. M. D. CONWAY.
94 HOLBORN HILL, LONDON, Aug. 6, 1864.
Editor Liberator:
Mr. Sella Martin accuses me, in your columns, of the misrepresentation of a colored co-laborer. I should have been at a loss to comprehend the allusion, had not a friend informed me that, last year, Mr. Martin had in the Liberator written something to the same effect apropos of an affair that last year Mr. Martin had in the Liberator written something to the same effect apropos of an affair that occurred at Islington, London. I did not see that letter, but I request- you to publish the following statement of what occurred on the occasion referred to. 
Mr. Sella Martin, in the course of his address, speaking of the general corruption which slavery had produced in America, declared that even the Abolitionists in America were corrupted by it; that even they did not practically treat the negro as an equal. I felt somewhat wounded by this; for I certainly had, for many years, treated negroes as equals, and I knew that others had; so I said to the gentleman by my side on the platform, though not loud enough for the audience to hear, "I doubt that." Mr. Sella Martin hearing this, the following colloquy occurred:-
Mr. MARTIN: "A gentleman behind me says he doubts that. He is not a colored man; he has not felt the shoe pinch. But I know the truth of what I say." 
MR-. CONWAY: " Does Mr. Martin mean to say that William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips do not treat negroes as equals?”
MR. MARTIN: "I do not exculpate anybody, nor inculpate anybody; but I know what I have said to be true."
Soon afterwards, I was called upon to speak, and in opening said: " It is my duty to say, that the last time I' saw Mr. Martin, until I met him here to-night, he was seated at an Anti- Slavery meeting comfortably between Garrison and Phillips, and did not seem to have any shoe pinching him at all."
This is the first and last time that anything has ever passed between Mr. Martin and myself. Fortunately, there were enough persons present who remember the words used on the occasion. I do not know what Mr. Martin means by jealousy; but I do know that whilst he was penning' his attack on me, I was publishing kind words about him in England.
Yours, truly,
M. D. CONWAY.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for September, presents the following table of contents::—
1. Our Domestic Affairs. By George Wurts. 2. AEnone. Chapter HX. IIX. 3. Aphorisms. By Rev, Asa S. Colton. 4. A Glance at Russian Politics. Part I. By Charles M. Mead. 5. Asleep. 6. A Castle in the Air. By E. Foxton. 7. The Devil's Canon in California. By Henry B. Auchincloss. 8. Fly Leaves from the Life of a Soldier. Part I. 9. The Sacrifice. By S. J. Bates. 10. Streck Verse. By E. B. C. 11. The Undivine Comedy. A Polish Drama. By Count Sigisimund Krasinski. Translated by Martha Walter Cook. 12. Sound Reflections. By E. B. C. 13. The Constitutional Amendment. By Henry Everett Russell. 14 Averill's Raid. By Alfred B. Street. 15. Observations of the Sun. By Charles E. Townsend. 16. An Army: Its Organization and Movements. Fourth Paper. By Lieut.-Col. C. W. Tolles, A. Q. M. 17. Violations of Literary Property. The Federalist-Life and Character of John Jay. By Henry T. Tuckerman. 18. A Sigh. By Virginia Vaughan. 19. The Antiquity of Man- A Philosophic Debate. By William Henderson. 20. Who Knows 1? By Edwin R. Johnson. 21. Literary Notices.
New York: John F. Trow, Publisher. For sale by the booksellers generally.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for September, presents the following table of contents:-:—1. The Cadmean Madness. 2. The Bridge of Cloud. 3. 8. The Electric Girl of La Perriere. 4. Literary Life in Paris-III. 5. The Maskers. 6. Cullet. 7. What will become of Them?-?—II. 8. Forgotten. 9. Wet-Weather Work-VIII. 1.0. Regular and Volunteer Officers 11. The Total Depravity of Inanimate Things. 12. What shall we have for Dinner? 13. Before Vicks- burg. 14. Our Visit to Richmond. 15. Reviews and Literary Notices. 16. Recent American Publications. Ticknor &. Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington Street. Terms of subscription, $3.00 per year in advance.
JENNY JUNEIANA: TALKS ON WOMEN'S TOPICS.
By Jennie June. Boston: Published by Lee & Shepard.
Whoever gets hold of this racy and unique volume will be pretty sure to retain it until its thorough perusal is completed. The author of it has a talent for writing In a manner to amuse, to interest, and to instruct. We add our commendation to the following from one of our exchanges:
"This is one of the sprightliest little volumes we have read for a long time. It is full of shrewd observations and lively humor, full of "good things."' The author being a married lady is acquainted with all the mysteries of woman's life, and her paragraphs on woman's topics are as entertaining to men as to women, and may be read with pleasure and profit by both. She treats of Girls and Babies, Courtship and Matrimony, Household Arrangements and Female Pleasures, and a hundred kindred themes of like interest. The chapters were originally contributed to a New York newspaper, and have gained by popularity their title to a permanent form. They are brief, but good enough to make one wish, they were longer, which is a rare merit. We advise those who wish to read a book on woman, that is not dull by reason of aiming to be profoundly philosophical, to peruse this one." 
<c03>
LOYAL ACTION OF THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Pursuant to a call issued by a Committee appointed at a Convention holden at Boston, a large number of Spiritualists from eighteen States and the Province of Upper Canada assembled at Bryan Hall, in Chicago, August 9th, at 10 o'clock, A. M. The Convention was called to order by Dr. H. F. Gardner, of Boston, Chairman of the Committee on the call. The proceedings were highly interesting and spirited, eliciting prolonged and earnest discussion, especially upon the following strong series of resolutions in relation to the rebellion and the pending presidential election:-
Whereas, In a crisis so distressing and so perilous in relation to our beloved country, the government has the right to expect and receive the sympathetic expression and cordial support of every popular body, whether religious, commercial or political; therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention readily improves the present occasion to declare, as indicative of the position it holds and the spirit by which it is animated,
1. That the existing rebellion against the government, having avowedly for its object-First, The denial of the democratic theory of the right of the people to decide who shall administer their public affairs, and, consequently, the substitution of the oligarchic rule; and Secondly, The enslavement of millions of the human family and their posterity, herding them with the beasts that perish, and trafficking in their bodies and souls- is to be abhorred and denounced by every patriot, Christian, and friend of justice and humanity, and resisted and crushed by all legitimate and rightful instrumentalities-no matter how long the struggle, how great the cost, or how fearful the sacrifice.
2. That no compromise is to be offered or accepted, and no terms of peace agreed upon, which leaves in existence the oligarchic or slaveholding elements in any part of the land; for otherwise it will be a virtual triumph of despotism over freedom, of wrong over right, and of treason over loyalty, to be followed in due season by another convulsion still more bloody and exterminating.
3. That as it was against the election of Abraham Lincoln, in whose veins runs the blood of the common people, that the slaveholding aristocracy of the South rose in arms, so the re-election of Abraham Lincoln at the approaching Presidential struggle will be a special vindication of the right of popular suffrage, and a signal triumph of the forces of Liberty over the hosts of Tyranny, in which the oppressed of all nations are deeply interested.
4. That whatever may have been the mistakes or errors of President Lincoln in conducting the war, whether through excess of caution or slowness of decision, every truly magnanimous, disinterested and patriotic spirit will charitably remember the endless difficulties and perplexities of his position, the terrible perils which have beset his path, the fearfully divided state of public sentiment, even at the North, and the crushing burdens that have been imposed upon him.
5. That however slow and circumspect, he has never taken a step backward, but has steadily proceeded onward in the right direction, striking at the root of the rebellion, and seeking to secure the unity of our now dismembered Republic upon the basis of universal freedom and justice, without which there can be no peace.
6. That his best certificate of character as to his honesty and administrative ability is to be found in the fact, that all that is slaveholding and treasonable at the South, and all that is pro-slavery, factious and seditious at the North, are fiercely seeking to defeat his reelection-regarding it as the sure sign that the doom of the rebellion and of slavery is sealed.
7. That as the loyal sentiment of the country, even when concentrated upon one candidate, is none too strong to secure success at the polls at the coining election; and as that sentiment has been overwhelmingly expressed in favor of reflecting Abraham Lincoln, therefore any division on any pretext in favor of any other candidate will practically operate to encourage the rebellion, to imperil the safety of the Republic, and to strengthen, extend and perpetuate that sum of all villainy-American Slavery; hence this is no time for the indulgence of personal preferences, of partisan animosities, or of selfish ambition.
Whereas, From the time of his nomination to the Presidential office to this hour, the slaveholding traitors of the South, and their allies in the North, have opposed Abraham Lincoln because, in their view, he was an abolitionist, and as such would use his influence as President against-slavery and slave labor, and in favor of freedom and free labor; and
Whereas, Their great argument against him to-day is, that he has actually used the power conferred upon him by the people, by the Constitution, and by the rebellion, for the destruction of slavery and slave labor, and the preservation of freedom and free labor; and
Whereas, By the action of his political friends, and also by the universal assertion of his pro-slavery political enemies, Abraham Lincoln stands before this nation, and before all Europe, as the political embodiment of the spirit and principle of freedom and free institutions, and as the political representative of the anti-slavery sentiment of the nation; therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention deems it incumbent upon all the friends of impartial justice and liberty, and of universal progress, to use all the social, moral, religious and political influence, which, in their opinion, they possess, to secure the reelection of Abraham Lincoln in the impending Presidential canvas.
Every device was resorted to, by a copperhead minority in the Convention, to prevent the passage of these weighty resolutions, but they were adopted by an overwhelming majority-eight to one! All honor and credit to such Spiritualism! 

ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES IN MAINE. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will spend a short time in the State of Maine, speaking on the great questions of Emancipation and a Free and Just Union. He will be glad to receive calls to lecture from any of the Anti-Slavery friends in Maine.
His address, for the present, is, Care of S. Water-house, Esq., Ellsworth, Me.
WM. WELLS BROWN, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, has gone to the State of Maine, where he will spend four or five weeks. His addresses on the entire emancipation of the slaves, and the recognition of the rights of men without regard to color, will no doubt interest the people.
THE REBELLION RECORD: A Diary of American Events, 1860-'64. Edited by Frank Moore, and published by G. P. Putnam and Henry Holt, 441 Broad-way-Part XLIII. Just published-containing finely engraved portraits of Brig. Generals W. B. Hazen and O. B. Willcox. "So voluminous are the official documents and events of this stupendous conflict, that the dates in the present number reach only to July, 1863! The whole work will be of great historical interest and value, and its patronage ought to be equal to its merits.
LETTER FROM SENATOR WILSON. In reply to certain false statements recently current, Senator Wilson has addressed the following letter to the Boston Transcript:—
NATICK, Aug. 20, 1864.
A statement, copied from New York papers, has been telegraphed to New England, to the effect that I had been to Washington to urge upon the President the policy of an armistice with the rebels. There is not the slightest foundation for the report, as I have never entertained, for a moment, any other thought than that of conquering a peace by the defeat of the rebel armies.
No public man connected with the Administration is in favor of an armistice. I personally know that I President Lincoln and the members of" his Cabinet have undoubting faith in the success of our armies in the field, and the ultimate, complete triumph of our cause. And with this belief, they will pursue the most vigorous measures to raise money and men. 
HENRY WILSON. 
NEW YORK, Aug. 20. The Times' Washington dispatch says that the speculations of certain New York sensation journals upon the armistice question are all bosh. Neither Mr. Lincoln's friends nor the leading Republicans are urging the experiment upon him, and his views, expressed only yesterday, in his remarks to returning Ohio soldiers, proclaimed his determination to devote all his powers to the suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of the Union. 
BALTIMORE, Aug. 22. The Point Lookout correspondent of the American sends the following: 
"Large number of refugees from Richmond continue to arrive. They report a large infantry force under Lee in person having gone up the Shenandoah Valley to <illegible> Early. They assert that this body numbers 40,000. Their purpose is to secure the plunder captured by Early in Maryland, which' they fear will be taken by the advance of Sheridan, and also to attack Washington or invade the North."
<c04>
A SPEECH FROM THE PRESIDENT. 
Last week, the 165th Ohio regimen Colonel Lee, whose term of service has expired, paid their respects to the President in front of the Executive mansion, who addressed them as follows:-
Soldiers-You are about to return to your homes, and your; friends, after having as I learn performed! in camp a comparatively short term of duty in the great struggle. I am greatly obliged to you and all who have conformed to the call of their country. I wish it might be more generally and universally understood what the country is now engaged in. We have, as all will agree, a free government, under which every; man has a right to be equal with every other man. In this great straggle, this form of government and every form of human rights is endangered if our enemies succeed. There is more involved in this struggle than is realized by every one. There is involved in this struggle the question whether your children and my children shall enjoy the privileges we have enjoyed. I say this in order to impress on you, if you are not already so impressed, that no small matter should divert us from our great purpose. There may be some irregularities in the practical application of our system. It is fair that each man shall pay taxes in exact proportion to the value of his property, but if we should wait before collecting a tax to adjust taxes on each man in exact proportion with every other man, we should never collect any tax at all.
There may be mistakes made sometimes. Things may be done wrong while the officers of the government do all they can to prevent mistakes. But I beg of you, as citizens of this great republic, not to let your minds be carried off from this great work we have before us. This struggle is too large for you to be diverted from it by any small matter. When you return to your homes, rise up to the height of a generation of men worthy of a free government, and we will carry out the work we have commenced. I return to you my sincere thanks, soldiers, for the honor you have done me this afternoon." 
Cheers were given for the President, and he was saluted by the regiment, after which the march was taken up for the railroad station. 

PATERNITY OF THE COPPERHEADS.
There is one vein of denunciation that runs through all the Copperhead effusions-the President has established a despotism, the country is ruined, life and property have been wrested from us, peace can be easily obtained somehow, and is worth everything else, &c., &c. The following extracts will suffice for examples: 
"And what else has he [Mr. Lincoln] done? Let the nearly two millions of men called into the field answer. Let the two hundred thousand graves he has made tell their own tale. Let the maimed, and halt, and diseased respond. Let the Government Debt and the People's Taxes answer. Let the Poor speak, and the Rich, whose riches take to themselves wings, reply. Mr. Lincoln and his policy have well nigh ruined the most favored nation and the most prosperous people on the face of the earth.”-New York Express.
"Reviewing the course of President Lincoln, he denounced him as a usurper. We have lost all self-control, he said, and the right to self-government. Gen. Lee, of the rebel army, is a better champion of the rights of self-government in this country than Abraham Lincoln."-Speech of S. S. Drew in the Maine Democratic Convention.
"Mr. Lincoln was declared to be a military despot. If the conservative men succeeded, it would be their duty as Christians and philanthropists to propose conciliation and concession.”-Speech of Bion Bradbury, same Convention.
"The deliberate invasion by the National Administration of the rights of the States, the freedom of the press and the personal security of the citizens."-Resolutions of same body.
Now we will go back to a peace man in 1780, who, it will be seen, adopts precisely the same style of argument, often the same epithets, and has the same artful suggestions of peace on any terms: 
[From Benedict Arnold's Proclamation to the Citizens and Soldiers of the United States, issued Oct. 20, 1780.]
You are promised liberty by the leaders of your affairs, but is there an individual in the enjoyment of it, saving your oppressors? Who among you dare speak or write what he thinks against the tyranny which has robbed you of your property, imprisons your sons, drags you to the field of battle, and is daily deluging your country with your blood?
Your country once was happy, and had the proffered peace been embraced, the last two years of misery had been spent in peace and plenty, and repairing the desolation of a quarrel that would have set the interests of Great Britain and America in a true light, and cemented their friendship.
I wish to lead a chosen band of Americans to the attainment of peace, liberty and safety, the first objects in taking the field.
What is America but a land of widows, orphans and beggars? But what need of arguments to such as feel infinitely more misery than tongue can express I give my promise of most affectionate welcome to all who are disposed to join me in measures necessary to close the scene of our affliction, which must be increased- until we are content with the liberality of the parent country, who still offers us protection and perpetual exemption from all taxes but such as we shall think fit to impose upon ourselves.
BENEDICT ARNOLD. 

VALLANDIGHAM. AT DAYTON, OHIO.
The great peace apostle spoke at Dayton, Ohio, on the 13th inst. We make the following extracts from the report of his remarks:

THE CHICAGO CONVENTION.
I expect speedily by the grace of God and I ask no higher authority-to be at Chicago. And the eyes' and hearts of the nation are turned in that direction.' Even Republicans, in the silent slumbers of the night -the hearts of hundreds of thousands of them- are turned to the Chicago Convention-pray that wisdom may direct its action, as I have not the least doubt it will. When its work is finished, then will I be ready to devote myself from morning till night, and from night till morning, if need be, to a discussion of the subjects that will be involved in the struggle to follow, I can assure you, as far as my judgment is worth anything, that that convention will meet in harmony, will sit in harmony, adopt the right kind of a platform, nominate a true candidate, and furthermore, that that candidate will receive a constitutional majority of the votes that will elect him President of the United States. 

WHAT WILL FOLLOW.
Then will begin the work of reducing taxes; of stopping drafts, of arresting the fearful destruction of war, of stanching the flow of blood, of re-establishing that state of things in the land which is described in sacred history, which our fathers enjoyed, and which we hope our children may yet see, when " every man shall sit down under his own vine and fig tree, with none to make afraid." 

"MY TIME HAS NOT COME."
Now, I call upon you to carry out your convictions. You have prejudices against the democratic party and you have stronger prejudices against me. This" I cannot help. I know that my time has not come. It does not need that Republicans should tell me this. "When ye see the fig tree put forth its leaves, then ye may know the summer is nigh." (Great cheering, indicative of some secret understanding between the speaker and its authors.) I am not going to quarrel with you. Time will do its work. 

MUST HAVE A PEACE CANDIDATE.
I think we will put forward a peace candidate. Why not? Suppose we were to nominate a war Democrat, pledged to prosecute the war, in what respect would such a ticket be better than the Lincoln ticket? You would have all the evils of the war still to press you down, increased taxes, drafts, and the slaughter of your sons. What would you gain by his election over that of Lincoln? You say that he would not interfere with the negroes South. Well, that is no consideration with me. What do we care for the negroes down South, when our own liberties and lives are at stake? We want a man who will try compromise in the settlement of our national difficulties, and such a man hundreds and thousands of Republicans are looking for. If they want a war man, they have as good a one as they could get in the per son of Lincoln. I would as soon be drafted under him as under a war Democrat. And I would agree with Abraham, that it is no time to swap horses while swimming a river. 
A GOOD RETORT. The New York Journal of Commerce, quoting that oft-repeated commonplace that the rebellion is "on its last legs," asks peevishly how many legs the rebellion has got. The Chicago Tribune answers:-
"There is a leg in Ohio called Vallandigham, one in Chicago called The Times, two in New York, The Journal of Commerce and the World, and one in Cincinnati, the Enquirer, besides two very lame legs at Richmond and Atlanta. The Northern legs are the most serviceable."
ANOTHER FALSEHOOD EXPLODED. The holy horror expressed by the sending North of four hundred women and girls who were making clothing for the rebel army in a factory in Georgia has been misplaced. It seems now that the exodus was voluntary, and arranged by Gen. Sherman at the request of the emigrants themselves. They were anxious to go where they could escape starvation and earn a livelihood.
<c05>
The recent Democratic mass convention at Peoria, numbering between seven and eight thousand participants, resolved that 
"War as a means of restoring the Union has proved a failure and a delusion; and if the people of the non-seceding States would restore and preserve their shattered Constitution, and avert from themselves and their posterity the slavery of a military despotism and a public debt, the interest on which, can never be met, they must bring this war to a speedy close."
The Democratic constituents, of Mr. Long have endorsed his course and his sentiments, saying also:
"Resolved, That we are in favor of immediate peace, and against the further prosecution of this war.
Resolved, That the Government of the United States has no right to coerce a sovereign State."
As a practical inference from such doctrines as these, the Milwaukee News gives the following reasons for not wishing, the triumph of our gallant, self- sacrificing troops:
"If Grant wins a battle, it is in part a triumph over the fundamental law of the Government. If Sherman conquers Atlanta, an essential portion of the Constitution is thereafter dead. If our soldiers win a victory, its glory is lost in the consciousness that a portion of its fruit is a marred and battered Constitution."
Senator Richardson, of Illinois, has been making a speech in Minnesota, in the course of which he said:
"If we elect Gen. McClellan, the next morning after his inauguration he will issue his proclamation. All the prisoners of Abraham Lincoln, all his Bastiles will be opened, and the political prisoners go free."
Six or eight weeks ago, the Copperheads were full of the intention of nominating Gen. Grant for President. But their tune has wonderfully changed since then for some reason. At the McClellan demonstration in New York, the allusions of the speakers to Gen. Grant were received with "groans." The New York World's report is interspersed with such parentheses as these, at the mention of Gen. Grant's name- groans, and cries of the butcher! the butcher! great excitement, groans for Grant and Lincoln" renewed cries of Grant, the butcher!" One speaker remarked that "if Gen. Grant had bagged the army of Lee, and put down the rebellion, he might have been President of the United States," and "many voices "cried" no, never!" etc., etc.
The two predominating characteristics of the McClellan meeting were groans and hisses at the names of Grant or Lincoln, and loud cries for peace on any terms, no matter what. Whether a disunion peace or a submission to the rebels made no difference with that Celtic rabble. And Mike Lellan was the bye for them to make the peace, and let the Union slide.-.—Chicago Tribune.
Copperheads are a sentimental race, for they say they are "loyal to the Union as it was." That is, they are faithful to a memory. "The Union as it was" is dead and buried, and could no more be restored to existence than Stonewall Jackson. Its ghost haunts some people, but it can never live again in the flesh. If there be anything material about it, it is only as a skeleton is material. An Englishman who should say that he is loyal to the Stuarts would be as reasonable, as the American who proclaims his loyalty to "the Union as it was." A Union will exist should our armies smash those of the rebels; but neither our success nor the unconditional surrender of the rebels would restore the Union that was destroyed by the Confederates in 1861. Such restoration will take place on the same day that we shall see Dido in Carthage and Zenobia in Palmyra.-Traveller.
The Copperheads know full well that a reinforcement of 100,000 men to Sherman would of itself smash the rebellion. It would enable him to capture Atlanta, crush or capture Hood's army, and sweep over Georgia, South Carolina and Alabama at pleasure, in which States alone he could recruit 200,000 colored soldiers. Savannah, Charleston, Mobile and Wilmington would all fall into his hands, and the rebellion in the cotton States would collapse. The Copperheads understand all this full well, and it is for the purpose of preventing Sherman from being reinforced that they are raising such a dismal howl against the war, and threatening to resist the draft. Let, no man be deceived. The rebels have given the "Order of American Knights" the signal of distress, and called on them to prevent Sherman and Grant from being reinforced.
Gen. Garfield has been renominated for Congress in the 19th Ohio district. The following is one of the resolutions adopted almost unanimously by the convention:
"Resolved, That the recent attack upon the President by Messrs. Wade and Davis is, in our opinion, ill-timed, ill-tempered and ill-advised, carrying great and undisguised joy to rebel camps in the South and rebel sympathizers in the North, and to the Union cause can be productive of evil, and only evil; and inasmuch as one of the authors of said protest is a citizen of this congressional district, and indebted in no small degree to our friendship for the position he now occupies, we deem it a duty no less imperative than disagreeable to pronounce upon that disorganizing manifesto our unqualified disapprobation and condemnation."
At the mass convention of peace men at Springfield, Illinois, they had a printing press in a wagon, which struck off sheets containing the Wade-Davis manifesto and the Peoria peace resolutions. Honest but too impulsive Ben Wade must feel that there is something wrong when he learns that fact.
POLITICAL. The New York Times says it is pretty generally understood that Fremont is to be withdrawn as a candidate for the Presidency, and somebody else nominated in his place at Buffalo. His name does not prove to be the tower of strength it was expected to prove.-.—Boston Journal.
It is asserted that General Fremont is to withdraw from the Presidential contest. He should withdraw, for he is that deadest of all dead things-a dead failure. His nomination completed his ruin.-Traveller. 
The manifest apostacy of Fremont from his conspicuously avowed principles makes him an object of natural distrust, but the Copperhead leaders see that he is recklessly bent upon destroying the unity of the great Union party, and hence are willing to use him to place themselves in power. They know he would prefer their success to that of Mr. Lincoln, and they consider him a ready ally. So he is. The Copperheads have more hope in Fremont to day than they have in any other man in the nation, or in any event, except the defeat of Gen. Grant. They are advocating him, and urging him and his friends to action, and so well satisfied are they with his action and intentions, that they are willing to stand aside, and let him achieve a Copperhead victory.-Chicago Tribune. 
A correspondent of the Chattanooga Gazette, writing from East Tennessee, says:
"Sanguine as I have ever been, I must confess to great surprise at the universal popularity of the Lincoln and Johnson ticket. Many gentlemen, reported as tinctured with copper, I find out-spoken and earnest advocates of Abe and Andy, and for the immediate removal of the great and only cause of disagreement between the people of the North and South-slavery."
New Hampshire Democrats threaten to resist the« result of the Presidential election, in their State, should its decision be due to the votes of soldiers. They are quite ready to inaugurate civil war at home, to effect a diversion in behalf of their old masters, the slaveholders.-Traveller.
The Richmond Examiner predicts the overthrow of Mr. Lincoln. It says:
"Whatever may turn out to be the meaning of the fact, the fact itself begins to shine out clear-that Abraham Lincoln is lost; that he will never be President again; not even President of the Yankee remnant of States, to say nothing of the whole six and thirty-or, how many are there, counting 'Colorado' and 'Idaho,' and other Yahoo commonwealth, lately invented?"
The pirate Tallahassee, after destroying a score or two of vessels along the coast of Maine, put into Halifax to procure a supply of coal. After she had received three or four hundred tons on board, sufficient for a week or two, Admiral Hope sent several boats' crews to her, and ordered the coaling to be stopped. She sailed at two o'clock on Saturday morning, bound east. The U. S. gunboat Pontoosuc arrived at six o'clock, having been detained by the fog, and was to sail immediately in pursuit. Another steamer was signalled west.
THE VIRGINIA CAMPAIGN. An officer of high rank in the army of the Potomac says, official figures foot up Grant's loss in the campaign thus far at 11,000 killed,. 40,000 wounded, 15,000 prisoners. The rebel loss three-fifths of ours. He says it is known positively that Hood has not been reinforced, and that Lee's fighting force does not exceed 50,000 men. He also asserts, that but for the failure to carry out Grant's orders, Lee would have been whipped on three different occasions. Hancock is the only corps commander who has not blundered once or more. 
The 24th regiment went into the fight at Deep Bottom 400 strong, and came out with 200. Their loss will probably be 125. Col. Osborne was slightly wounded, and Lieut Williams killed.
<c06>
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
The seventeenth Annual Term will commence Nov. 2, 1864, and continue seventeen weeks. Tuition fee for the courses of the six Professors and the Demonstrator, $65- free to students needing aid, wherever residing. For particulars, address the subscriber, at the College, No. 30 Canton street, Boston.
3w SAM'L GREGORY. M. D., Secretary.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in West Wrentham, Sunday, Sept. 4th, at half-past 10, A. M., and half-past 1, P. M.
Subjects: "Overcome Evil with Good"-"The War wrong in Principle and mistaken, in Policy."
DIED—Of typhoid fever, at the Hospital in Washington, D. C., Aug. 9, ALBERT M. PARKER, member of Co. H., 150th Reg. Ohio National Guards, aged 20 years and 6 months, son of Wm. F. and Rebecca M. Parker, of Cleveland, Ohio.
At Brighton, (England,) August 4, of hydrocephalus, EMERSON, youngest child of Rev. Moncure D. Conway, aged 3 years. 
Portrait of Mr. Garrison.
JOHNSTON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD.
Subscriptions received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29.
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School,
THE next term will begin Sept. 7, 1864. For particulars, inquire of Aug. 19.
N.S. ALLEN, 
West Newton.
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S 
Family Boarding -School for Young Ladies,
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS. 
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested. 
July 8. 3m 
MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S 
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL 
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N. Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, 
Sept. 21. Aug. 26-2w
Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's Pen- and Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country. 
Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND JOHNSON, 
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market st., Phila.
August 19.
THE HUMAN VOICE indicative of character; Physiology of the Voice-base, barytone, tenor, contralto, soprane; Male and Female Voices--what causes the difference? How to Cultivate the Voice; Stammering.
CLIMATE AND THE RACES-Northerners and Southerners compared:; organic difference; quality, hardness, softness, fineness, coarseness; Carbon-its transformations; Natural Development; Pauper Children; Thieves Photographed; Right Position in Sleep; Vanity, Self-Praise; New Views of Physiognomy; The Face; Signs of Character; Love of the Eyes-in PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL, Aug. No., 20 cts., or $2 a year. Newsmen have it.
FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y.
July 29.2w 
The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail-paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING, 
15 Leight Street, New York. 
July 15. 3m 

MASON & HAMLIN'S 
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE 
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost-$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses,. Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost. 
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order. 
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte. 
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them;, they, must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled. 
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, Ac.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y.,.. Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any- part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26 6m

140 THE LIBERATOR AUGUST 26
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry 
PALINGENESIS. 
BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
I lay upon the headland height, and listened
To the incessant sobbing of the sea.
In caverns under me, 
And watched the waves that tossed and fled and glistened, 
Until the rolling meadows of amethyst 
Melted away in mist. 
Then suddenly, as one from sleep, I started; 
For round about me all the sunny capes 
Seemed peopled with the shapes 
Of those whom I had known in days departed, 
Apparelled in the loveliness which gleams 
On faces seen in dreams. 
A moment only, and the light and glory 
Faded away, and the disconsolate shore 
Stood lonely as before; 
And the wild roses of the promontory 
Around me shuddered in the wind, and shed 
Their petals of pale red. 
There was an old belief that in the embers 	
Of all things their primordial form exists,
And cunning alchemists 
Could recreate the rose with all its members 
From its own ashes, but without the bloom— 
Without the lost perfume. 
Ah, me! what wonder-working, occult science 
Can from the ashes in our hearts once more 
The rose of youth restore?
What craft of alchemy can bid defiance 
To time and change, and for a single hour 
Renew this phantom-flower? 
"Oh, give me back," I cried, " the vanished splendors, 
The breath of morn, and the exultant strife, 
When the swift stream of life 
Bounds o'er its rocky channel, and surrenders 
The pond, with all its lilies, for the leap 
Into the unknown deep!" 
And the sea answered, with a lamentation, 
Like some old prophet wailing, and it said, 
"Alas! thy youth is dead! 
It breathes no more, its heart has no pulsation; 
In the dark places with the dead of old 
It lies forever cold! " 
Then said I, " From its consecrated cerements 
I will not drag this sacred dust again, 
Only to give me pain; 
But, still remembering all the lost endearments, 
Go on my way, like one who looks before, 
And turns to weep no more." 
Into what land of harvests, what plantations 
Bright with autumnal foliage and the glow 
Of sunsets burning low; 
Beneath what midnight skies, whose constellations 
Light up the spacious avenues between 
This world and the unseen! 
Amid what friendly greetings and caresses, 
What households, though not alien, yet not mine, 
What bowers of rest divine; 
To what temptations in lone wildernesses, 
What famine of the heart, what pain and loss, 
The bearing of what cross! 
I do not know; nor will I vainly question 
Those pages of the mystic book which hold 
The story still untold, 
But without rash conjecture or suggestion 
Turn its last leaves in reverence and good heed, 
Until " The End " I read.

TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
BY RICHARD REALF, EIGHTY-EIGHTH ILLINOIS INFANTRY.
God never leaveth utterly 
The world that He hath rounded; 
All human stress is by the sea 
Of his dear pity bounded. 
Upon no Israel, to its ill, 
The grip of Pharaoh closes, 
Beyond the liberating skill 
On some anointed Moses. 
Beside us, in all utmost straits, 
Walk the delivering angels, 
And on the wings of our black hates 
Ride his supreme evangels. 
In riotous glut of wrongs abhorred 
A people's shame increases, 
When, lo! some prophet draws his sword,
And cleaves the lie in pieces. 
O, leader of our sacred cause, 
Twin sharer, in our sadness, 
Defender of the trampled laws 
From perjured felons' madness-
In all our press of mortal strife, 
Our weariness .and weeping, 
Our hearts thank God our country's life 
Is in thine honest keeping! 
So blithe amid the cares of state, 
So calm'mid howling faction, 

Clear-souled to hasten or to wait, 
As fits the largest action; 
With joyance like a little child's 
Along thy grave moods straying, 
And breezes as from heather wilds 
In every cheery saying. 
God bless the reverent lips that spake 
The one grand word whose thunder 
Thrilled all the gladdened heavens, and brake 
Our damned chains asunder! 
God bless the patient hand that traced 
The golden, glorious pages 
Whereby our lost crowns are replaced 
For immemorial ages! 
We follow where thou leadest; for 
Beyond the tribulation 
That drapes these dreadful years of war, 
We see a newer nation, 
Through balmy days of greatening power, 
And nights of calm ascension, 
Expand into the perfect flower 
Of God's divine intention.

TRUE FREEDOM.
He is the freeman whom the truth makes free,
And all are slaves besides. There's not a chain
That hellish foes, confederate for his harm,
Can wind around him, but he casts it off
With as much ease as Samson his green withes.
He looks abroad into the varied field
Of nature, and though poor, perhaps, compared
With those whose mansions glitter in his sight,
Calls the delightful scenery all his own.
His are the mountains, and the valleys his,
And the resplendent rivers his t' enjoy
With a propriety that none can feel,
But who, with filial confidence inspired,
Can lift to heaven an unpresumptuous eye,
And smiling say-" My Father made them all!"

CONTENT.
Have faith in God that for thee all is well-
So, whether thou in Fortune's smile dost dwell,
Or, crushed beneath Adversity's dead weight, 
Lie'neath the burden near disconsolate,
Thou yet shall be content. 
Not that " content" which Idleness begets,
But that of faith and steadfast hold on God,
Which never, when its sun beclouded sets,
Writhes like a wayward child beneath the rod.
Oh, sweet Contents, that hath such faith in Right,
It resteth calm, serene, in God's own will, in darkness
as in light. JOHN S. ADAMS.

TRANSLATION FROM MARTIAL
Thieves may break in and bear sway your gold,
The cruel flame may lay your mansion low,
Your dues the faithless debtor may withhold,
Your fields may not return the grain you sow;
A spendthrift steward at your cost may live;
Your ships may founder with their precious store;
But wealth bestowed is safe—for what you give,
And that alone is yours forevermore. W.C. BRYANT.

<c02>
The Liberator.

THE POSITION OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ITS RELATIONS TO SLAVERY AND THE REBELLION.
CHICAGO, Aug. 11, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
Mr FRIEND,— I am here to attend the great National Convention of Spiritualists and friends of progress, as a delegate from a Convention of the friends of impartial justice, liberty and human brotherhood in Granville and vicinity, N. Y. I left Boston Tuesday morning, Aug. 2d, for this place, via the Vermont Central, the Grand Trunk, and lakes Huron and Michigan. Before leaving Boston, it was intimated to me that Spiritualism, through its first National Convention, was to define its position in regard to slavery and the rebellion, and our duties in reference to them. It was also intimated to me that a plan was being concocted by a few individuals to make that position one of sympathetic and practical support to slavery and the rebellion, and that the declarations and doings of this Convention were to be so shaped as to give countenance and support to the Convention of Democratic slave-mongers and traitors to assemble here the 29th of the month to nominate a Presidential candidate who, if elected, will be the tool of Vallandigham & Co. to aid once more, by a compromise with the slave-breeding and slave-driving traitors of the South to cast the betrayed North into their hands, with a view to restore dominion to the Democratic party, at the expense of freedom, free labor and free institutions.
These intimations were repeated to me on my way to this place.  I could scarcely believe them true, in the shape in which they were repeated to me. But on arriving at Chicago, the same reports were reiterated. I was deeply anxious to have this Convention define the position of Spiritualism to be one of loyalty and devotion to justice, liberty and equal rights. I reached here Sunday, the 7th. On Monday, I attended a preliminary meeting of delegates who had arrived, to see what could be done to facilitate the organization of the Convention, which was to meet on Tuesday, the 9th. At this meeting, I stated to the friends the importance of having the Convention give an unequivocal expression of its sympathy with the government in its efforts to crush the rebellion and to wipe out slavery, the sole cause of the civil war that now seeks to overthrow the Republic. A committee of six was designated by that informal preliminary meeting to prepare and report to the Convention, when it should assemble, a series of resolutions on national affairs for discussion.
Resolutions were presented to the committee and considered by them, and it was determined to report them to the Convention for discussion and adoption, provided the Convention should deem it expedient to entertain them. As soon as the Convention was organized, the resolutions were presented, and referred to a special committee on national affairs. Meantime, the resolutions appeared in the Chicago Tribune of Tuesday morning, before the Convention assembled, that all the delegates and friends might get printed copies of them, and have time to look them over, and be prepared to act upon them intelligently.
The special committee of five decided to report the resolutions to the Convention for discussion and adoption, should they see fit. To-day was set apart exclusively for the consideration of the resolutions-so important did the Convention consider them. Meantime, a general committee on resolutions, consisting of two from each State represented, was appointed, and it was voted that no resolutions should be allowed to come before the Convention except such as were presented by this committee. The resolutions reported by the special committee were presented to this general committee, and by them also adopted, and presented to the Convention for discussion and adoption, thus receiving the sanction of two committees.
At 9, A. M., the discussion began, each speaker being confined to ten minutes, and the chair authorized so to rule the discussion that each side be heard alternately. The discussion proceeded till 12; was then adjourned to 2. P. M., when it again began, and was continued till 5; then adjourned to 8 in the evening. At that time, the previous question was moved, and the evening spent in taking the yeas and nays twice; first on a motion to lay on the table, and second on the resolutions; the final vote being 303 for the resolutions and 40 against them-eight to one. The whole Convention then joined in shouting the Battle-Cry of Freedom, and singing the John Brown Hallelujah.
Every effort was made, up to the last moment, by the opponents of the resolutions, to prevent a vote. Several friends of the whole series proposed a compromise by retaining the first two, and striking out all the remainder; but the opponents—those of them who evidently were present to make the Convention subservient to the Vallandigham Democracy that is to meet here on the 29th—would not be satisfied, but declared themselves opposed to the whole.
On Wednesday night, a caucus of those who opposed the resolutions was held at the Sherman House, to concert a plan to defeat them, headed by those who had come to attend the Convention of Democratic sympathizers with slavery and treason, They hoped to make capital out of the Convention of the friends of progress to support and give moral character to that conclave of slave-mongering traitors. Instead of leaving the Convention, the largest portion of the Ohio delegation not only protested against the pledge of their Chairman to leave the Convention in case the resolutions were adopted, but actually voted for them on the final vote. It is said, and probably it is true, that the decree had come from Washington to certain individuals in Cincinnati and Chicago to make this Convention subsidiary to the purposes of the gang of Northern traitors about to meet here to concoct measures once more to consign the North, and the Republic of freedom, watered and consecrated by the tears and prayers and cemented by the blood of our fathers and mothers, to the tender mercies of kidnappers and pirates of the South. It is certain that multitudes of those who are plotting and working to create riots and civil war in the North, and to invite rebel raids into Illinois, Missouri, Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania, were gathered into the hall by their leaders, some of them professing to be Spiritualists, to hiss and stamp and clamor down all who were in favor of the resolutions, and clamor up those who opposed them. But the Convention, as I was sure it would, most enthusiastically adopted the resolutions, and thus gave it as the national position of Spiritualism, that it was truly and heartily loyal to the spirit and principles of freedom, free labor and free institutions, and to the government and administration, as the friend of abolition, of justice and humanity.
I have attended many Conventions of Abolitionists and friends of progress during the past thirty-five years, but never have I attended one in which justice, liberty, free labor, free institutions, free thought and free speech, and loyalty to God and man, have received a more enthusiastic support, and cunning, fraud, injustice, slavery and treason a more signal, triumphant and unmistakable defeat. From 1500 to 2000 have been present at the discussion of these resolutions. The loyal papers of the city, especially the Chicago Tribune, have given full and fair reports of the debates. So it has come to pass that slavery and rebellion at the South, truckling to slavery in the North, and Democratic riots and murders, will get no comfort or support from the first National Convention of Spiritualists and friends of progress. May their defeat be as complete at all times and in all places! HENRY C. WRIGHT.
CHICAGO, Aug. 14,1864.
W. L. GARRISON: 
MY FRIEND,—" Peace! Peace!" is the cry of Vallandigham, Wood, Cox and Co., and will be of the Convention to be held in this city on the 29th. It


<c03>
has been the cry of A. G. W. Carter, Amanda Spence, A. B. Whiting & Co. in the National Convention of Spiritualists and Friends of Progress that has for six days held its three sessions per day in this place. "Peace, peace, at any price! Nothing so sweet, nothing so good, nothing so lovely, nothing so desirable, as peace!" What do they mean? Simply that liberty should cease to fight against slavery, free labor against slave labor, truth against falsehood, purity against pollution, justice against injustice, civilization against barbarism. "Alas! alas! that the beating of drums and the sound of martial music leading forward to slaughter, should cause the last band to forsake the altar of the living God, to war against slavery and for freedom!" Such has been the simple import of the cry of peace raised against the resolutions adopted by the Convention against slavery and rebellion. PEACE! There is no word in the language so significant of blood and carnage, of degradation and horror to the nation and the continent, as this word "Peace," in the mouths of pro-slavery Democrats and Spiritualists. God save the world from such a peace as they contemplate! A peace that shall deliver us all over to the lusts, the inhumanity, the whips, chains and bloodhounds of their fellow slave-breeders, slave-traders, slave-drivers and slave-hunters. 
I am just in from the last session of our six days' Convention. The sympathizers with slave-breeders and traitors struggled to the last to bring the Convention into harmony with the Peace Democracy, who are to meet here on the 29th, to howl for, "Peace! Peace!" when God says there can be no peace; i. e., with man-stealers and pirates. They brought in a protest, in which they assert that "there had been a manifest design, concocted and pursued by a few one-idead individuals in the city of Boston, as we are informed, to impose upon this Convention of Spiritualists a scheme of politics and political machination altogether foreign to the great objects of said Convention, and entirely subversive of the aims and ends of Spiritualism. The Convention, by adopting the political preamble and resolutions of said committee, indicative of said scheme and machination, have sold out and prostituted the genuine cause of Spiritualism, and have tyrannically usurped upon and absolutely oppressed the minority, by refusing to cast out these firebrand resolutions, by cutting off all discussion, and by the operation of the gag rule, and have utterly refused to listen to any compromise or conciliation which could manfully be accepted by the minority. The Convention was turned into a political arena for the exhibition of political gladiators, or more properly, stump speakers, who spoke for war, carnage and bloodshed, and not for peace on earth and good-will to men." This protest is signed by Amanda Spence, A. B. Whiting, A. G. W. Carter, and others. The Convention refused to receive it, or have it go upon their records, because they deemed it unqualifiedly false in fact, perverse in spirit, and uncourteous and insulting in language. Various efforts were made to get the Convention to receive the protest, but it was so entirely saturated with copperhead venom, that they utterly refused to have it go upon their record. The leading protesters departed to their own place, among the Peace Democrats, there to express their sympathy with slave-mongers and traitors.
This cry of "Peace " in the interests of slavery and treason against God and man, is familiar to all Abolitionists. " Peace! Peace!   Compromise! Concession!" has been the cry of the Peace party of the North for thirty-five years; but always at the expense of freedom and in favor of slavery. Now the nation has been driven by the Slave Power to adopt the mottos, "Give me liberty or give me death!" and " Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God!" and the pro-slavery party of the North affect to be horrified at war. No horror did that party express at the Seminole war, the Mexican war, or the Kansas war, with its unutterable atrocities. Those wars were in the interest of slavery and against freedom. Copperhead Spiritualists are but the offspring of Copperhead Democrats. It is asserted by those outside of the Convention, that their protest was got up in the office of the Times. If penned by Carter, Spence, A. B. Whiting, or any one who had attended the discussions in the Convention, the person who wrote it, and the members of the Convention who signed it, asserted what they must have known to be false. The greatest traitors to God and man, to freedom and free labor, and to the Declaration of Independence, are those who, be they Democrats, Spiritualists, Abolitionists, Non-Resistants, or by whatever name called, now, in the death-struggle between Freedom and Slavery, cry " Peace! Peace!" in the interests of slave-mongers and traitors. Resistance to slave-mongers and their allies (the most cruel and mendacious of earth's tyrants) is obedience to God;-each one resisting by such weapons as he deems right and most efficient to secure the end; i e., the abolition of slavery and rebellion.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.


THE CURRENT OF EVENTS AND THE DRIPT OF THE ADMINISTRATION.
[CONTINUED.]
RECONSTRUCTION.
DORCHESTER, Aug. 16,1864.
The loyal people of Arkansas and Louisiana, accepting the President's proposition, have already organized and inaugurated State governments on his plan; and their representatives knock for admission at the doors of Congress, and claim the right to share in the counsels of the nation. Congress says no. The fundamental principle of republican government is the right of the majority to rule: and we cannot acknowledge the representatives of one-tenth of the legal voters as a legitimate representation of the State; but we would gladly welcome those of the majority, as such.
But the organizations are in existence, and are every day strengthened and confirmed in their present forms. And, to upset or disown them, would be, virtually, to deny the authority of the President to propose them on such terms, or perhaps on any terms. The proposition was made, and has been accepted; and it cannot be withdrawn or modified, without exposing the President, if not the Government, to the charge of bad faith. Emanating from the same authority, it is, so far, equally valid with the Proclamation of Emancipation. Both depend upon the zeal and earnestness with which they are sustained and sanctioned by the people.
Dissatisfied with the President's plan, Congress matured a plan of their own, and having passed it in the form of a bill, near the close of the session, presented it to the President for his approval. It was not signed by him.
Five days after the final adjournment, however, be declared that he was then, as in December last, "unprepared, by a formal approval of this bill, to be inflexibly committed to any single plan of restitution. I am, nevertheless, fully satisfied (said he) with the system contained in the bill, as one very proper plan for the loyal people of any State choosing to adopt it." This seems very plausible, but the President knows very well that no people will adopt it while a plan of restoration, six times as easy, is already open to them by his own arbitrary will The President is committed to a plan, which, if not resolutely opposed and arrested by the people, he is determined to carry out and establish, as the policy of the country. Indeed, he virtually vetoes and sets at nought an act of Congress, lest it should interfere with, upset, or obstruct the operation of his own plan of restitution; and appeals to the people for the justification of his course. Here then is the issue; and the question is, will the people acquiesce in his policy?
For one, I protest against this usurpation of power. Has it come to this, that in the all-important matter of reconstruction, Congress is completely shorn of its strength—can carry no measures of its own, but is constrained to endorse and sanction the decrees of the President? Shall it be left to the President to deter-

<c04>

mine upon what conditions, and by what method, each of the rebel States may be " restored to practical relations with the Union "? If so, there may be as many different plans as there are rebel States; and yet, out of the whole he expects ultimately to form one harmonious whole.
It is written, "The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government, and, if need be, shall protect each of them against domestic violence." And it does appear to me that the time had fully come for Congress to assert its prerogative, and establish a uniform plan of restoration, which in their view would be likely to secure to each of the revolted States a republican form of government; and they would have been derelict to one of their highest duties had they done less. It was the one thing needful; and until the people and Congress, and even the President himself, will consent to be "inflexibly committed" to some principle, the work of reconstruction will never be accomplished. The nation will continue to be fearfully unstable; the ship of State will neither ride securely at anchor, nor will she be moving steadily forward; we shall be drifting, drifting, drifting still.
The Constitution enjoins a positive duty. The means and method of performing it are left to the wisdom and discretion of Congress. It may be done by prevention, or by suppression—by educational and moral means, or by the application of physical force. Congress is bound to suppress invasions, but has hitherto done almost nothing to prevent them. It did, however, provide that the proceeds of a certain portion 
of the public lands, in the new States, should be devoted to educational purposes; but left the application of them to the States in which the lands were situated. In other respects, each State might provide for or wholly prohibit the education of the people within its respective limits, just as their interests and their political and social systems might seem to require. But in fifteen States slavery was preeminently the cherished institution; and with  that class, embracing, in some instances, two-thirds of the population, education was prohibited, and, as far as possible, suppressed. To teach a slave even the alphabet exposed one to the severest penalties.
Thus the Federal Government, regardless alike of its own safety and the permanent welfare of the great mass of its subjects, failing to exercise its sublimest function, has virtually abdicated the throne of justice and mercy, in favor of their oppressors. All too tolerant of crime, it has allowed fifteen of the thirty-four States to cherish and nurture in their bosoms an institution which, from its very nature, dehumanizes and depraves all classes of society, making it, indeed, a modern Sodom; but, developing into unwonted strength the feelings of hatred and distrust, of restlessness and discontent on one side, and a certain apprehension and looking for of judgment to come on the other, leads to plots and counterplots, creating "domestic violence," and threatening continually to break forth in open insurrection. 
For seventy years and more this sink of corruption and nursery of crime has grown with our growth and strengthened with our strength; maturing and ripening its bitter fruits, till, in these later days, conspiracy and long-meditated treason, assuming their appropriate forms, with hellish purpose at length breaks forth in massive rebellion against the Government itself; threatening to break up, and perchance utterly destroy, both the nation and its government forever.
Scourged and bleeding as we are in the strife growing out of the crimes and follies of the past, it were heaven-daring wickedness to repeat them. If, in the calamities of the present hour, we do but reap what our fathers and ourselves have sown, let us beware lest we bequeath a like heritage of sin and woe to those who shall come after us. Weighed down and struggling and writhing under present afflictions, let us take heed that, in the-long future, the republic shall receive no detriment from us. Let us watch, and pray, and strive, with all our mind and with all our strength, that we neither plant nor even tolerate, in any State or corner of the land, any institution which will tend to wake and nourish into life, envy, jealousy, hatred, hostility of class, and personal discontent, endangering thereby the peace of the State, and the permanency of the Republic. 
What though slavery be checked, or nominally abolished, if serfdom be allowed to spring up and take its place? 
"What boots it at one gate to make defence,
And at the other to let in the foe? "
"Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom."
"The discipline of slavery is " not " unknown
Amongst us—hence the more do we require
The discipline of virtue:—order else
Can not subsist, nor confidence, nor peace.
Thus duties rising out of good possessed,
And prudent caution needful to avert
Impending evil, do alike require
That permanent provision should be made
For the whole people to be taught and trained;-
So shall licentiousness and black resolve
Be rooted out, and virtuous habits take
Their place; and genuine piety descend,
Like an inheritance, from age to age."
H. W. C.


"EDMUND KIRKE'S" INTERVIEW WITH
 JEFF. DAVIS. 
We take the following extract from an article in the September number of the Atlantic Monthly, entitled " Our Visit to Richmond," by J. R. Gilmore, giving an account of the curious journey to the rebel capital recently taken by him and Colonel Jaques: 
JEFFERSON DAVIS.
Mr. Benjamin occupied his previous seat at the table, and at his right sat a spare, thin-featured man, with iron-grey hair and beard, and a clear gray eye, full of life and vigor. He had a broad, massive forehead, and a mouth and chin denoting great energy and strength of will. His face was emaciated and much wrinkled, but his features were good, especially his eyes-though one of them bore a scar, apparently made by some sharp instrument. He wore a suit of grayish-brown, evidently of foreign manufacture, and as he rose, I saw he was about five feet ten inches high, with a slight stoop in the shoulders. His manners were simple, easy, and quite fascinating; and be threw an indescribable charm into his voice, as he extended his hand, and said to us:
"I am glad to see you, gentlemen. You are very welcome to Richmond,"
And this was the man who was President of the United States under Franklin Pierce, and who is now the heart, soul, and brains of the Southern Confederacy! 
His manner put me entirely at my ease-the Colonel would be at his, if he stood before Caesar-and I replied:
" We thank you, Mr. Davis. It is not often you meet men of our clothes and our principles in Richmond."
"Not often, not so often as I could wish; and I trust your coming may lead to a more frequent and a more friendly intercourse between the North and the South."
"We sincerely hope it may."
"Mr. Benjamin tells me you have asked to see me, to " 
And he paused as if desiring we should finish the sentence. The Colonel replied:
"Yes, sir. We have asked this interview in the hope that you may suggest some way by which this war can be stopped. Our people want peace; your people do, and your Congress has recently said that you do. We have come to ask how it can be brought about."
" In a very simple way. Withdraw your armies from our territory, and peace will come of itself. We do not seek to subjugate you. We are not waging an offensive war, except so far as it is offensive-defensive-that is, so far as we are forced to invade you to prevent your invading us. Let us alone, and peace will come at once."
" But we cannot let you alone so long as you repudiate the Union. That is the one thing the northern people will not surrender."
"I know You would deny to us what you exact for yourselves-the right of self-government." 
" No, sir," I remarked. " We would deny you no natural right. But we think Union essential to peace; and, Mr. Davis, could two people with the same language, separated only by an imaginary line, live at peace with each other? Would not disputes


<c05>
constantly arise, and cause almost constant war between them?" 
'Undoubtedly-with this generation. You have sown such bitterness at the South, you have put such an ocean of blood between the two sections, that I despair of seeing any harmony in my time. Our children may forget this war, but we cannot." 
"I think the bitterness you speak of, sir," said the Colonel, "does not really exist. We talk here as friends; our soldiers meet and fraternize with each other; and I feel sure that if the Union were restored, a more friendly feeling would arise between us than has ever existed. The war has made us know and respect each other better than before. This is the view of very many Southern men; I have had it from many of them—your leading citizens."
"They are mistaken," replied Mr. Davis. "They do not understand Southern sentiment. How can we feel anything but bitterness towards men who deny us our rights? If you enter my house, and drive me out of it, am I not your natural enemy? " 
"You put the case too strongly. But we cannot fight forever; the war must end at some time; we must finally agree upon something; can we not agree now, and stop this frightful carnage? We are both Christian men, Mr. Davis. Can you, as a Christian man, leave untried any means that may lead to peace? " 
"No, I cannot. I desire peace as much as you do; I deplore bloodshed as much as you do; but I feel that not one drop of the blood shed in this war is on my hands; I can look up to my God, and say this. I tried all in my power to avert this war. I saw it coming, and for twelve years I worked night and day to prevent it, but I could not. The North was mad and blind; it would not let us govern ourselves; and so the war came, and now it must go on till the last man of this generation falls in his tracks, and his children seize his musket and fight his battles, unless you acknowledge our right to self-government. We are not fighting for slavery, we are fighting for independence-and that or extermination we will have."
"And there are at least four and a half millions of us left; so you see that you have a work before you," said Mr. Benjamin, with a decided sneer. 
"We have no wish to exterminate you," answered the Colonel. "I believe what I have said-that there is no bitterness between the Northern and Southern people. The North, I know, loves the South.  When peace comes, it will pour money and means into your hands to repair the waste caused by the war; and it would now welcome you back, and forgive you all the loss and bloodshed you have caused. But we must crush your armies and exterminate your government."

MR. DAVIS REFUSES AN ARMISTICE.
"Well, suppose the two governments should agree to something like this: to go to the people with two propositions; say, peace, with disunion and southern independence, as your proposition-and peace, with union, emancipation, no confiscation and universal amnesty, as ours. Let the citizens of all the United States (as they existed before the war) vote ' Yes' or' No on these two propositions, at a special election, within sixty days. If a majority votes disunion, our government to be bound by it to let you go in peace. If a majority votes union, yours to be bound by it, and to stay in peace. The two governments can contract in this way, and the people, though constitutionally unable to decide on peace or war, can elect which of the two propositions shall govern their rulers. Let Lee and Grant, meanwhile, agree to an armistice. This would sheathe the sword; and it once sheathed, it would never again be drawn by this generation." 
"The plan is altogether impracticable. If the South were but one State, it might work; but as it is, if one Southern State objected to emancipation, it would nullify the whole thing; for you are aware that the people of Virginia cannot vote slavery out of South Carolina, nor the people of South Carolina vote it out of Virginia." 
"But three-fourths of the States can amend the Constitution. Let it be done in that way-in any way, so that it be done by the people. I am not a statesman or a politician, and I do not know just how such a plan could be carried out; but you get the idea-that the people shall decide the question."
"That the majority shall decide it, you mean.- We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority, and this would subject us to it again." 
"But the majority must finally rule, either with bullets or ballots." 
"I am not so sure of that. Neither current events nor history shows that the majority rules, or ever did rule. The contrary, I think, is true. Why, sir, the man who should go before the Southern people with such a proposition, with any proposition which implied that the North was to have a voice in determining the domestic relations of the South, could not live here a day. He would be hanged to the first tree, without judge or jury." 
"Allow me to doubt that. I think it more likely he would be hanged if he let the Southern people know the majority couldn't rule," I replied, smiling.
"I have no fear of that," rejoined Mr. Davis, also smiling most good humoredly. " I give you leave to proclaim it from every house-top in the South." 
"But, seriously, sir, you let the majority rule in a single State; why not let it rule in the whole country?" 
"Because the States are independent and sovereign.The country is not. It is only a confederation of States, or rather it was; it is now two confederations."
"Then we are not a people—-we are only a political partnership? 
"That is all." 
"Your very name, sir,' United States,' implies that," said Mr. Benjamin. " But tell me, are the terms you have named-emancipation, no confiscation, and universal amnesty—-the terms which Mr. Lincoln authorized you to offer us? " 
"No, sir; Mr. Lincoln did not authorize me to offer you any terms. But I think both he and the Northern people, for the sake of peace, would assent to some such conditions." 
"They are very generous, "replied Mr. Davis, for the first time during the interview, showing some angry feeling. "But amnesty, sir, applies to criminals. We have committed no crime. Confiscation is of no account, unless you can enforce it. And emancipation! You have already emancipated nearly two millions of our slaves—and if you will take care of them, you may emancipate the rest. I had a few when the war began. I was of some use to them; they never were of any to me. Against their will you'emancipated' them, and you may'emancipate' every negro in the Confederacy, but we will be free! We will govern ourselves. We will do it if we have to see every Southern plantation sacked, and every Southern city in flames." 
"I see, Mr. Davis, it is useless to continue this conversation, "I replied; " and you will pardon us, if we have seemed to press our views with too much pertinacity. We love the old flag, and that must be our apology for intruding upon you at all."
"You have not intruded upon me," he replied, resuming his usual manner. "I am glad to have met you both. I once loved the old flag as well as you do; I would have died for it; but now it is to me only the emblem of oppression." 
"I hope the day may never come, Mr. Davis, when /I shall say that," said the Colonel.

CLOSE OF THE INTERVIEW.
A half hour's conversation on other topics—not of public interest—ensued, and then we rose to go. As we did so, the rebel President gave me his hand, and, bidding me a kindly good-bye, expressed the hope of seeing me again in Richmond in happier times—when peace shall have returned; but with the Colonel his parting was particularly cordial. Taking his hand in both of his, he said to him—
"Colonel, I respect your character and your motives, 
and I wish you well—I wish you every good I can wish you consistently with the interests of the Confederacy."
The quiet, straightforward bearing and magnificent 
moral courage of our " fighting parson " had evidently impressed Mr. Davis very favorably.
As we were leaving the room he added: 
"Say to Mr. Lincoln from me that I shall at any time be pleased to receive proposals for peace on the basis of our independence, It will be useless to approach me with any other."
When we went out, Mr. Benjamin called Judge Ould, who had been waiting, during the whole interview-two hours—at the other end of the hall, and we passed down the stairway together. As I put my arm within that of the Judge, he said to me—
"Well, what is the result? " 
"Nothing but war —war to the knife."
"Ephraim is joined to his idols—let him alone," added the Colonel, solemnly.

<c06>
PEN PICTURES OF NOTABLE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
The following is an extract from one of B.F.
Taylor's Washington letters to the Chicago Journal, 
describing some well-known characters in the 
U.S. House of Representatives:—
THAD. STEVENS.
That straight, spare man in black, with Roman features, thinnish face and a dome of a brow, keen, watchful eyes and a brown wig, who is just rising with apparent indifference, is the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, the "old Anchises" "of the House, Thaddeus Stevens. But, unlike "the outside barbarian" whose name I have given him, for no better reason than because Nestor has fairly served his time out in such, christenings, Mr. Stevens needs nobody's shoulders to give him a lift out of any burning Troy. He looks like a man of fifty, but he begins to speak, and you begin to doubt. His voice is firm and strong, indeed, but with that  metallic hardness that indicates a vigorous seventy; and it tells the truth, for he is pushing bravely on, en route for the four score. He has been here no end of sessions, is clear-headed, strong-willed, speaks briefly., as a man drives a nail; sometimes, to be sure, fetching his own thumb a random blow, as well as his neighbor's, but nobody minds it less than he. He was born to be a leader, and it must be conceded that he has enjoyed his birthright. He has a dash of humor in his straight forward talk that sparkles out in unexpected places; but do not think I am after the old figure of flashing water, for the humor of "the gentleman from Pennsylvania "is as dry as gunpower.

BALDWIN.
Over yonder are two hundred pounds, "and better," of an editor; Baldwin, of Massachusetts and the Worcester Spy. A great head, covered with a lion-like mass of long, gray hair, and a broad, honest, thoughtful face, that makes you think of something solid in geometry. He is a type of those old New Englanders who sat in the square, high-backed pews, when they sang “Old Hundred "till it seemed like the voice of the wind in a leafy wood, and their wives sat lovingly beside them, with sprigs of carraway and drill.

HENRY WINTER DAVIS.
Happily, just at the instant you are thinking of Baldwin, his "antarctic" man is passing to his seat; as unlike him as two beings can be, and belong to the same species. A small, well-moulded, compact head, brown hair with a touch of silver in it, slight brown moustache, fine eye, and pleasant smile, not an ounce of waste flesh about him, and yet not angular-all whipcords and harpstrings-with a step as light as a leopard's and firm as an athlete's you have rather the supple blade of Toledo than the war club of Massasoit. His voice, as you might know without hearing it, is shrill, yet clear and pleasant. Look well at him; for, right or wrong, one of the most intellectual men in the Hall is that Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland.

EX-GOV. THOMAS
The man just rising will challenge your attention
His venerable form, his white hair combed forward
over the crown after the ancient fashion, his courteous
address, all betoken a fine specimen of that
race, almost extinct, the old-school gentleman. It
is Ex-Governor Thomas, of Maryland. His clear
enunciation, every word finished like a coin, does not surprise you. He seldom speaks, and that
briefly, and yet some member breaks in upon him
The flash of the "old Maryland bayonet"is in the
old man's eye at the rudeness: " Why, Mr. Speaker,"
he is saying, "I have been these many years
in legislative halls, and I never interrupted a gentleman
in the whole course of my life! ‘The remark
is full of character, and helps to finish out the picture.

EX-GOV. BOUTWELL.
That member in cool, white linen, with dark
eyes, dark complexion, and a manly face, his muscular
form with no aldermanic trait of green turtle
betraying at once endurance, you set down for a
direct, working, out-spoken member, whose decalaration
upon honor you would never think of exacting;
and you run no risk, for it is ex-Governor Bout-well
of Massachusetts, one of the very ablest members from the rock of the pilgrims.
HENRY L. DAWES.
The member just beneath you, with his eyes looking
at a thought, a placid face, and little about him to disclose either his ability or his calling, is the head of the Committee on Elections, Henry L. Dawes; a sterling, solid New England man; and though to see him sitting there with the light out, you would not think so, an earnest effective speaker. He ploughed Kentucky this very night with a burning ploughshare. The voices oftenest heard in this hall are the least heeded, though men are slow to find it out. We listen to catch the sound of the tolling bell just on the stroke of "one,” but when it is hammered through all the " twelve," we cease to be intent. Thus, to take Mr. Norton from your own State; always in his place, always doing duty, always watchful for the interests of the district he represents, and for the whole country, he speaks but little; but that little is every way to the purpose, and commands the attention and respect of the House. One such man is worth all the windmills in Spain.

JAMES BROOKS.
But, hark, an editor has the floor! It is James Brooks of New York, and of the Express, and his doctrines are "express " but not "admirable"! His face, skirted with a sparse fringe of whiskers, "sets" like a photograph; the tether of his eyeglasses, which he does not remove, quivers down his face like a black wave, the very glasses fairly glitter with excitement; his long hair is thrown back as if he faced a breeze; his thin lips grow thinner as he shuts them, upon the escaping words, like a steel trap. He has an abstract African under his coat; an abstract African as an institution; the institution of slavery. That tells the whole story as he strikes out right and left, manfully and patriotically, against the Administration and the country. "The gentleman from New York" speaks wondrous well for a man that speaks so badly! James Brooks's talk and Fanny Ellsler's dancing are alike-" the better it is, the worse it is."
s.s. cox
Small, frail, dark-eyed as William's Susan, but less than half as true; long, satin hair, as black as the regions that sit in darkness; quick as a cat, and as Powhattan might have described him, "face all over," and you have a rude sketch of the author of "The Buckeye Abroad," S.S. Cox of Ohio. His literary fame troubles him, for mischievous members often introduce the volume, and a choice extract is read from it, wherein he describes his attendance at
St. Peter's, St. Paul's, or somewhere abroad, upon the ministration of a negro clergyman, and was edified. He would fain make it out a miracle now, and put the African and the Beast of Balaam upon the same circuit. He is "as smart as a whip, "as the jockeys say, but his matter loses something from his manner; he is too devil's-darning-needless; or to go a step higher in the scale of being and illustration, he flies at and darts about his subject and his opponent, like a frantic humming bird.

GEN. SCHENCK
Exactly in front of me is a face with a good deal of character; of the German cast, and reminding you of DeKalb and Steuben; the well-balanced head set squarely upon the shoulders; hair short and light, and tinged a little like the "tawny tiger; "upper lip shaded by a moustache; eyes small and keen, possibly indicating not so much intellectual breadth as acuteness; chin jutting out from his throat at a right angle; well put together, but not large-it is the Chairman of the Committee on Military Affairs at whom you are looking; Robert C. Schenck, of Ohio, and late Major General of volunteers. He is an emphatic man; uses short words, and puts them in the right places when he talks; takes short steps, and sets his feet down firmly when he walks. Impatient enough to belong to the <illegible> genus, and be a poet. When amused his face laughs all over, and I rather think that when angry -and I fancy he may not be so very "slow" to that emotional disturbance-the frown slips down from his brow, and lowers even to the chin, but it doesn't last, I imagine, but clears away like a storm in the tropics. Somewhere up in the fifties, Gen. <illegible> is in the full vigor of manhood. Loyal to the heart of hearts, his record both upon floor and field is “honor bright."
The Richmond papers say the prisoners captured in the assault on Petersburg on the 20th alt number 1375, and represents 51 different regiments 40 white and 11 black ones.