THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT. 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents' per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent-to one address for TEN DOLLARS if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
The Advertisements inserted at the rote of five cents, per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the piper, viz:-FRASNIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 35. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1601.
<c01>
Refuge of oppression.
THE SOUTHERN PRESS ON THE WAR.
We commend the following extracts from Southern papers to the attention of those. who would clamor for peace, if they had sufficient confidence that they could make their influence felt. The Richmond Whig, assuming that the North is in fear of losing Washington, says:-
"They are alarmed for Washington, but they have not yet begun to tremble for New York and Boston. As England and France knew that there would be no stable peace with the treacherous, knavish, cowardly and cruel Chinese, short of Pekin, so we know that there can be no lasting peace with the Chinese counterparts on this continent until Confederate cannon overawe New York, and Con-federate legions bivouac on Boston Common. Boston is the Pekin of the Western China; and 'On to Pekin' is the watch word of Southern armies. Washington is a mere circumstance. We don't want it, any further than to dislodge the obscene birds that now infest it. Baltimore, too, which inspires the tyrants with so much terror, is not worth a moment's consideration-beyond breaking the fetters (in-passing) of that outraged people. Our true goal is Pekin-the headquarters of the genuine Tartar horde, with their gongs and stink- guns. The military occupation of the Yankee capital can alone give indemnity for the past and security for the future. Thou up with the universal shout, On to Pekin!"
The Richmond Dispatch, grown haughty and self-reliant since the Bull Run affair, thus repudiates the idea of foreign intervention, and advocates entire non-intercourse with the North, even if the independence of the Southern Confederacy should be established:-
The experiment of republican institutions is lost at the North, and it can only be saved at the Smith by maintaining a strict non-intercourse with the word moral Sodom and political Pandemonium on, our borders as the nature of the case will permit. We are willing to agree to the cessation of hostilities; but if any foreign mediation shall exact concessions of intercourse, and commercial and political privilege, as a bargain and stipulation, it will exact what cannot be granted without destruction to our social, political and commercial integrity.
The case, therefore, is not one for arbitration. The South cannot refer so grave a question as that of her independence to any arbitration, much less to that of a foreign potentate. Did ever two litigants refer to arbitration the question of cither one's slavery? Independence is a question that cannot be referred by the South, and that is, in fact, the only question really involved in the present contest. The Yankee may become sick of the war, and is capable of descending from a demand of our service and fealty to begging the privilege of peddling his wooden nutmegs and bark clocks through our country; but neither of these demands are proper for mediation, and we should be very wary of granting treaty privileges of trade. Despairing of conquering the South by open hostilities, they will try the artifice of the Greeks before Troy, and attempt to introduce, by means of trade privileges, the wooden horse into our midst. It is only some purpose of this sort that mediation can accomplish; and we should distrust and eschew such schemes, as the Trojans learned to distrust their enemies, even when bearing pretended gifts."

THE RULING RACE.
The following article, from the Richmond Whig, discloses the purpose of the South to overthrow our republican government, and establish in its stead a pro-slavery aristocracy. As an authoritative expression of the sentiment of the Southern rebels, and the principles upon which, if successful, they intend to govern the whole American continent, it deserves serious consideration:-
"We are too close pressed and too much influenced by the great events which are passing, to indulge much in philosophizing. But the rout and dispersion, at the great pitched battle near Manassas, bring into bold relief the great fact, that the Yankees are humbugs, and that the while people of the slaveholding States are the true masters-the real rulers of this continent. Under every disadvantage on our side, the preparations for the combat were made. The Northern States had seized upon all the common property of the partnership, had monopolized the whole navy and army, and all the material, with the entire machinery of government in lull operation; and boasted that they had an inexhaustible supply of men and money to wage an interminable war. For months, with all these advantages, they have been diligently engaged in organizing their forces.
under the direction of the most vaunted military character of the age-not of their creation, though, for they never produced a genius capable of anything beyond arranging a hotel or working a steam engine, or directing some mechanical contrivance,- they expended millions of money and drilled armies of three hundred thousand, and" equipped them in a style unheard of in the annals of war. They met the rude and poorly equipped volunteers of the Southern States, drawn from their peaceful vocation? for the first time, to the theatre of war, and they are routed and slain by the thousand, and driven like chaff before a high wind. Though guided by the highest military talent, (of Virginia short-grass growth,) they have nothing to rely upon but their numbers, and that, in the fight, proves a clement of weakness.
The fact is, the Yankees are very little better than the Chinese. They lay the same stress on the jingle of their dollars that the Celestials do on the noise of their gongs. Originally endowed with no single amiable trait, they have cultivated the arts of money-getting and cheating, until gain has: be-come their God, and they imagine it to be omnipotent. With money in their pockets, won from a generous and chivalrous race-and multitudinous as Norway rats, they are swollen with conceit, and fan-tied that they were fit for empire. And yet they do not possess one gentlemanly attribute, nor a single talent that qualifies them for war. Of the very first element they are destitute. They don't even know how to ride a horse-a talent only to be acquired in youth, amid gentle avocations. And as to arms, ninety-nine out of a hundred never shot a gun: and we have it on very good authority that Old Scott lost all patience in attempting to teach them how to load a gun. The vile old wretch he reaps a just reward for his treason and his talents misapplied.
The break-down of the Yankees, they utter unfitness for empire, forces dominion upon us of the South. We are compelled to take the scepter, and it is our duty to prepare ourselves to our destinies. We must elevate our race, every man of It-breed them up to arms, to command--to empire. The art
<c02>
military should constitute a leading part of every white man's education. The right of voting should be a high privilege, to be enjoyed by those only who are worthy to exercise it. In a word, the whole white population of the South should be brought into a high-toned aristocracy, duly impressed with a sense of its own functions, and its obligations to freedom and civilization."
THE DEMOCRACY OP WALDOBORO ON THE WAR.
At a Democratic caucus held in Waldoboro', Maine, on Saturday, 17th inst., at which delegates were chosen to attend the State Convention, the following resolutions were adopted. They are curiosities in a literary point of view. Ignorance, mendacity and malignity struggle to find appropriate expression, and the result will excite nothing but contempt:-
"1st. Resolved, That the present civil war was brought upon the country against the solemn admonitions of the Democrats, by & combination of reckless, ambitious and fanatical merit, priests, abolitionists and disunionists, calling themselves Republicans. That the so-called Republican party has furnished a precedent for the Southern Rebellion in its own refusal to be governed by the decisions of the Supreme Court, as the expounder of the Constitution. The active orators of that party in the late Presidential campaign outraged brotherly feeling, and violated the truth in speeches on the stump, for the purpose of creating, as they did create at the North, hatred and hostility to the South and Southern rights. That at all times, since the so-called-Republican party came into power, their aim has been to preserve their party organization for the purpose of power and plunder, rather than to preserve the Union, and, in our opinion, the present war might have been prevented, had the party in power been as anxious to save the country as to save the party.
2d. Resolved, That the managers of the party in power are anxious to protract the present war, not its from desire or hope of restoring the Union to its former glory, but solely as a means of enriching themselves by plunder, and gratifying their ambition for place and power; that their new-born professions of love for the Union are not the honest expressions of change in opinions, but are prompted by fear of losing a large share of public patronage; and their unwillingness to adhere to their cherished mottoes, 'Let the South go and the Union slide,' is checked for the present by the possession of national power.
3d. Resolved, that our Southern brethren are not justified by us in withdrawing from Congress, and taking up arms to protect themselves in their rights, thus leaving the country wholly in the hands of the Abolitionists, and their friends in the North; at the mercy of a party whose history, is a record of misrule and corruption, distinguished for its mob- spirit, and its infringement upon the rights of free speech; and, in our opinion, Southern rights would have been fully sustained had the Southern Senators and members of the louse remained in their places.
4th. Resolved, That we do not admit the constitutional right of a State, or a number of States, to secede, but do consider that secession is revolution and should be treated as such; and as all hopes of saving the Union by compromise are lost, while the Abolitionists have control of the State and nation, men that will not yield an inch to save the Union, but are determined to abolish slavery at the sacrifice of the country; and, in our opinion, that ten or twelve millions of people united, as our Southern brethren now are, by the late illegal acts of the Administration, cannot be conquered, and if conquered, could not be held in subjugation, without converting our government into a military despotism; and, in our opinion, the only method of adjusting this unhappy controversy, without more serous consequences, is to let the seceded States depart in peace, reclaiming as many of the border States as a true spirit of compromise will allow on our part, with an eye to the mutual benefits and interests and happiness of the whole people, would be better served by two separate friendly governments than by a continuation of a Union only in name, and a government daily breaking and evading the Constitution in its misrule of the country drenched in fraternal blood.
5th. Resolved, That, in our opinion, by adopting the principles of the foregoing resolutions, with priest craft and Abolitionism crushed out in the' North, and the follies of the past for a guide, there will be a reconstruction of the Union on a more permanent basis, and the United States restored to its former greatness and prosperity.
6th. Resolved, That our system of government was formed by compromise and concession, and can only exist in its purity by the same; that civil war is disunion, and if persisted in must result in the destruction of the Union with ruin, and the persons or parties that commend or sustain the war. North or South, are disanoints in practice, and are only hastening its destruction, and, besides, burdening the country with an enormous national debt, but believe that many such are honest in their opinions, but are induced to pursue that course with the hope and belief that the Union can be preserved by coercive measures, therefore cordially inviting all thinking and discriminating men that are for pursuing that course, that it will be for the best interest of the whole people to take the matter under consideration, and it they come to the conclusion that the principles set forth in the foregoing resolutions are correct, to cooperate with us in accomplishing our objects and save the country from further blood-shed, bankruptcy and ruin.
7th. Resolved, That we are for the whole Union -East, West, North and South; and it is with the greatest sorrow and regret that we are compelled to favor the separation of this once great and happy family of States: but believing it to be our best and only hope of saving our part of the wreck from utter ruin and destruction, and furthermore, believing it to be of the utmost importance that the Abolition party now in power should be replaced by a party whose sentiments would be respected by the people of the South, in order to make such compromises and mutual agreements as will be for the best interests of the North, we therefore instruct our delegates to vote for such men as will sustain the principles set forth in the foregoing resolutions."
"A Douglas Democrat," who communicates these resolutions, says that they embody the sentiments of the Breckinridge Democracy of the county.
A traitorous correspondent of the Philadelphia Christian Observer writes-" The Peace party in Delaware, which is be no means an insignificant party, are unable to comprehend how war is to reconstruct our Union, or how our Government is to be sustained by trampling under foot our Constitution and Laws; or how the 'dignity of that Constitution is to be maintained by the violation of its most sacred obligations, by those who have sworn to protect and defend it."
<c03>
Selections.
HON. D. S. DICKINSON'S SPEECH.
This veteran Democrat has been making a powerful speech in Wyoming county, Penn. His idea of meeting the crisis is as tar as possible from that of the Breckinridge school of Democracy. Speaking of the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, he said: " If 1 had possession of a traitor, and no' other remedy would arrest treachery, I would suspend the writ, and the individual, too."
The following extracts will show the earnest and patriotic spirit of Mr. Dickinson's speech:-
"But what is the true way of putting down what I shall term a rebellion?" And we can all agree in one thing: that that rebellion is either right or wrong, justifiable or unjustifiable-to be approved or condemned, as a whole. If it is right for a portion of this country to take up arms against this Government, it is right to sustain such action; and if they are wrong, they should be put down by the power of the people. (Applause.) There is no halfway house in this matter-no tarrying-place between sustaining the Government and attempting its overthrow. There is no peace proposition that will suit the case until the rebellion is first put down. (Applause.) And were I in favor of, or disposed to tamper with this rebellion, or aid or countenance it, I would-go and take up arms with them. Because, if it is right for them to take up arms, it is right for them to have armed aid and assistance. If they are wrong, if they are guilty of treason, and murder, and arson, then they should be overthrown by the whole power of the Government (applause, and cries of' good'); and put down so that no resurrection day will ever find rebellion again. (Renewed applause.)
" When my Democratic or "Republican friends, 'or any other man,' are disposed to call the President to account, (and I am not his defender,) I merely beg when they get through with him, they will merely inquire whether Mr. Jefferson Davis & Co. have gone strictly according to the Constitution of the United States V (Cheers and laughter.) I have the impression that instituting a pretended government within the boundaries of the United States; that stealing the treasures of our government, its ships; betraying its commands; firing upon its fortifications; organizing piracy upon the high seas, and a long list of other and kindred acts-I have the impression, 1 say, that these are slight infringements upon the Constitution, and may require examination. (Laughter.) But I want to have my Constitution friends come along with me, and when they get the Administration all regulated and on the constitutional track, to look at this matter a little; for it seems to me that, it requires attention. I know not whether Mr. Lincoln has observed the Constitution; indeed, for all the purposes of resisting the rebellion, I care not. It is due to him to say, however, that he has seemed to be in good faith attempting to put down the rebellion. He has not done all things as I would have done them, because I would have multiplied his men by about four, and where he has struck one blow, I would have struck, a dozen. (Laughter and cheering.) Therefore I do not agree with him in that respect. When the day comes, we can have a settlement with him, for he is to be held, with all other officers, to a strict account. But I would not do even that under the smoke of an enemy's guns."
SPEECH OF GOV. 0. P. MORTON, AT ROCK-
VILLE, INDIANA.
A large and enthusiastic Union meeting was held in Parke county, on which occasion, by invitation, Gov. Morton, R. J. Ryan and Judge Williams addressed the people. We make the following extracts from Governor Morton's speech:-
All republican government is based upon the principle that when the will of the people has been expressed through the forms of the Constitution, all parties and all men must submit. Unless this principle be unconditionally admitted, republican government cannot exist for a day. For illustration of this truth, I might refer to the history of Mexico, where each election is followed by a revolution; where the minority refuse to submit to the majority, and fly to arms for the redress of every fancied grievance. Such has been the history of republican governments in France and other countries in Europe. Every officer of the government, when properly elected, becomes the officer and agent of the people, whether they favored his election or not, and all loyal citizens recognize him as such.
Mr. Buchanan, when elected, although I did not favor his election, became my President, and any insult offered to him by a foreign power, or any resistance to his lawful authority by domestic foes, was an insult and an injury to me and every citizen of the United States. 'Some people there are who are so incredibly stupid as to be unable to see any difference between the government and the mere agents who carry it on for the time. Government is intended to be permanent, while the officers by whom it is administered are ever changing. Washington, Jefferson and Jackson have passed away, but the government they administered still lasts, and I trust will last forever. The men who now control public affairs will, in a few short years, have passed from the stage of action; but we trust the government will survive them. The man who would refuse to protect the government merely because he did not like the men who carried it on, would display as little sense as the inebriate who should refuse to protect his dwelling from the flames because he did not like the agency of water.
This is not a war of parties, "but of the whole people. The interests involved rise as far above mere party considerations as the heavens are above the earth. The man who stands aloof from the great contest, haggling about his party, is shortsighted, and fails to comprehend the time in which he lives. Parties can only exist in a free government, and when the government falls, they fall along with it. The Democratic, Whig and Republican parties have each sought to administer the government. But if the government should pass away, there would be nothing left to administer. If there is any poor partisan here, to-day, who believes that, after the government has been destroyed, he will have his party left and may enjoy it, I yield him up in despair. The Almighty has enveloped his intellect in eternal night, and foreordained that he should be a fool forever and ever.
The charge is made in this county that this war was begun by Lincoln to bring about the abolition of slavery. The man who utters this charge is attempting to commit a fraud upon the people, and treason against the government. Every intelligent man knows that, before Lincoln was inaugurated, the rebels had an army of thirty thousand men in the field; had laid siege to Fort Pickens and Sumter; had robbed the mint at New Orleans of half a million of dollars; and plundered various forts and
<c04>
arsenals of two hundred thousand stand of arms, and five hundred pieces of artillery; had confiscated the debts due from citizens of seceded States to the people of the North, thus robbing them of hundreds of millions. of dollars; had murdered or driven from the seceded States every man of Northern birth, or that entertained a lingering attachment for the Constitution of his country.
The object of a falsehood so foul and monstrous is not to be mistaken. It is to distract the people of the North and palsy the hands of the government, that it may fall an easy prey to the scoundrels who are seeking its destruction. This would be its effect, if any it had, and must, therefore, be its aim.
But it is said we must have peace, and could have peace if we would. I love peace as much as any man. Its sweets are as delicious to my taste as to that of any human being. But when I say this, I mean peace that is safe, peace that is crowned with liberty and the blessings of an enlightened civilization. I do not mean that peace which is the sleep of death; which is purchased by foul dishonor; nor that peace which is but another name for submission to tyrants and traitors. It is utter folly to talk about peace, without pointing out some method by which it may be obtained. 1 know of but two conditions now upon which peace can be had. The first is by submitting to the disruption of the Union and the destruction of the government. The second is, by the submission of the traitors now in arms. And I appeal to you, to-day, to answer the question in your hearts, upon which of these conditions do you demand peace? Who are the men that are thus clamoring for peace upon any terms? They are not the Union men of Kentucky, of Missouri, of Tennessee, of Maryland, or of Virginia. But they are small clans scattered throughout the Northern States, who are violently suspected by their neighbors of not being Union men, but men who would flourish most and rejoice most in a period of general anarchy, and social and political dissolution.
But we are told that, unless we at once suspend hostilities, and secure peace upon any other terms, an enormous public debt will be contracted, which will oppress the people for generations to come. A large public debt is, undoubtedly, a calamity; but there are greater calamities. What will it profit a people if they should gain the wealth of the whole world, but lose their government, and with it their liberty? In my judgment, the man who can deliberately weigh gold in the scale against the existence of this government, and the liberties of this
people, is either an idiot or a traitor. If there is such a man in Parke county, may God forgive him, for I cannot. What matters it whether this war shall cost an hundred millions or a hundred thousand, if we are thereby enabled to maintain the Union, and transmit this government to our children? Considered in a merely financial point of view, it would be the best investment the American people ever made. If the government falls, what becomes of the value of property? What becomes of commerce? of public and private institutions? of prosperity of every kind?
The folly of the man who refuses to sustain the government, because it will cost a large amount of money to do so, is only equalled by him who should refuse to purchase necessary food because it is expensive, and voluntarily starves himself to death in order that he may live to enjoy a large fortune. Financially considered, secession is the greatest misfortune that could befell the nation, and especially the people of these Western States. The Mississippi river would become the property of a foreign government, and we should be cut off from any outlet to the Gulf, except upon such terms as should be graciously vouchsafed to us by the traitors now in arms. The manufactures and agricultural productions of Indiana would not be allowed to float down the Mississippi river to find a market, except on compliance with the conditions and payment of the duties prescribed by the dictatorship at Richmond. The Revolutionary War is estimated to have cost two hundred millions of dollars. How much easier would it have been to have paid the little duty of three pence a pound upon tea! And can you doubt that the men who now urge the cost of this war as an objection to it would, for the same reason, have objected to the Revolution had they lived during that period?
But it is said that this war might have been avoided by a compromise, and could now be settled by a compromise. While we were babbling of a compromise last winter, the traitors were stealing arms, plundering mints, investing fortresses, and marshaling armies into the field. What is there to compromise now, but the integrity of the Union and the existence of the government? Do the traitors offer us any compromise? No. On the contrary, their ultimatum is the destruction of the Constitution and the Union. But how would these men go about proposing a compromise to an enemy who has an hundred thousand men in the field, and who spits in the nation's face whenever the word is mentioned; who declares that secession and disunion are the glorious consummation of the toil and travail of more than thirty years; who affirms that the free institutions at the North are a failure, that the only true foundation for government is African slavery, and that the laboring classes of the North are serfs and vassals, beneath the mental and moral dignity of the slave upon the plantation?
It is now well known that the secession movement was inaugurated as early as 1829. Its first effort at the destruction of the government was made in 1833, in the nullification movement in South Carolina, based ostensibly upon the tariff question. Gen. Jackson then predicted that the next effort would be predicated upon the slavery question, and the prophecy has been fulfilled. From that time forward, secession has been kept alive under the deceitful and specious title of " State's Rights "; and yet these constitutional doctors propose to cure this chronic secession cancer by the application of a mild compromise plaster. But I tell you, No! The only cure for the cancer is the knife. We must cut out the gangrened and rotten parts, and extract the very roots of the devouring ulcer. Compromise roots und herbs are of no avail in a case like this. The Southern Commissioners, sent to Washington last spring, offered no compromise, and would listen to none. Their haughty and traitorous demand was, that we should consent to the dissolution of the Union, and the dismemberment of the government. They said if this government would write its name upon a blank piece of paper, and allow them to write over it the conditions upon which they would compromise this difficulty and return to the Union, they had none to write.
A proposition to compromise now is simply a proposition to surrender, and the man who makes it, disguise it as he may, means that, and nothing else.
We are fighting now to preserve what our fathers fought to win. They established a republican government, and we will uphold it. If their cause was sacred, then is ours sanctified by their blood, and should, if necessary, be sealed with our own.
<c05>
To concede practically or theoretically the doctrine of secession, upon which this rebellion is based, is to concede the destruction of our social and political institutions. That doctrine is, that any State has the right to withdraw from the Union at pleasure, without consulting the National Government or the other States. This being admitted, it requires no argument to prove that we have no government, but a mere voluntary association, with no higher sanctions than a pleasure party, from which any guest may retire at his own convenience. Carried to its consequences, it does not stop with the destruction of the National Government, but is equally fatal to State and local institutions. Commerce must perish when one party can withdraw from a contract, without the consent of the other. No other war ever involved such mighty interests, comprehending, as it does, the political and social existence of the nation; and if, while everything is thus at stake, we shall suffer ourselves to be distracted and conquered by old prejudices and jealousies, false views of selfish demagogues, the world may well pronounce final judgment, that the experiment of self-government has failed, and that men can be successfully governed only by an aristocracy or a monarchy.
Much is being said in certain quarters now about the right of free speech. I allow no man to be a more firm and consistent advocate of that right than myself. I have battled for it many years, and shall ever uphold it as the very touchstone of liberty. It will be found, on examination, that those who are
now making the clamor, mean, by the " freedom of speech," the right to weaken our hands, and strengthen the hands of our enemy, by distracting our councils, by reviling our cause, by ignominious propositions to lay down our arms, and by availing the purity of all men who are laboring to uphold the honor and integ- rity of the nation. If any man in the rebellious States should utter, in defence of the North, a tithe of what men in Indiana are daily saying in defence. of the South, he would not be permitted to live long enough to say his prayers. This freedom of speech is exercised in behalf of those who deny the right to all others, and who punish its exercise with death. The men who thus abuse the right of free speech are living monuments of the forbearance of our laws, and of the liberty and security of persons, guaranteed by our institutions. While I admit and will uphold the freedom of speech, it is not improper to state that there are State and national laws defining and punishing the crime of treason, and that infractions of these laws will be searched out and punished with the utmost rigor.
THE DYING TESTIMONY OF SENATOR
DOUGLAS.
The National Intelligencer has received from a
friend of the late Senator Douglas, the following copy of a letter from him on the state of the country, written a short time before his death:-
CHICAGO, Friday, May 10, 1861.
MY DEAR SIR,-Being deprived of the use of my arms for the present by a severe attack of rheumatism, I am compelled to avail myself of the services of an amanuensis in reply to your two letters.
It seems that some of my friends are unable to comprehend the difference between arguments used in favor of an equitable compromise, with the hope of averting the horrors of war, and those urged in support of the government and the flag of our country, when war is being waged against the United States with the avowed purpose of producing a permanent disruption of the Union and a total destruction of its government. 
All hope of compromise with the cotton States was abandoned when they assumed the position that the separation of the Union was complete and final, and that they would never consent to a reconstruction in any contingency-not even if we would furnish them with a blank sheet of paper, and permit them to inscribe their own terms.
Still the hope was cherished that reasonable and satisfactory terms of adjustment could be agreed upon with Tennessee, North Carolina, and the border States, and that whatever terms would prove satisfactory to these loyal States would create a Union party in the cotton States, which would be powerful enough at the ballot-box to destroy the revolutionary government, and bring those States back into the Union by the voice of their own people. This hope was cherished by Union men North and South, and was never abandoned until war was levied at Charleston, and the authoritative announcement made by the revolutionary government at Montgomery, that the secession flag should be planted upon the walls of the capitol at Washington, and a proclamation issued inviting the pirates of the world to prey upon the commerce of the United States.
These startling facts, in connection with the boastful announcement that the ravages of war and carnage should be quickly transferred from the cotton fields of the South to the wheat fields and corn fields of the North, furnish conclusive evidence that it was the fixed purpose of the Secessionists utterly to destroy the government of our fathers, and obliterate the United States from the map of the world.
In view of this state of facts, there was but one path of duty left to patriotic men. It was not a party question, nor a question involving partisan policy; it was a question of government or no government; country or no country; and hence it became the imperative duty of every Union man, every friend of constitutional liberty, to rally to the support of our common country, its government and flag, as the only means of checking the progress of revolution, and of preserving the Union of States.
I am unable to answer your questions in respect to the policy of Mr. Lincoln and Cabinet. I am not in their confidence, as you and the whole country ought to be aware. I am neither the supporter of the partisan policy nor the apologist of 'the administration. My previous relations to them remain unchanged; but I trust the time will never come when I shall not be willing to make any needful sacrifice of personal feeling and party policy for the honor and integrity of my country.
I know of no mode in which a loyal citizen may so well demonstrate his devotion to his country as by sustaining the flag, the Constitution, and the Union, under all circumstances, and under every administration, regardless of party politics, against all a sail-ants, at home and abroad. The course of Clay and Webster towards the administration of Jackson, in the days of nullification, presents a noble and worthy example for all true patriots. At the very moment when that fearful crisis was precipitated upon the country, partisan strife between Whigs and Democrats was quite as bitter and relentless as now between Democrats and Republicans.
The gulf which separated party leaders in those days was quite as broad and deep as that which now separates the Democracy from the Republicans. But the moment an enemy rose, in our midst, plotting the dismemberment of the Union and the destruction of the government, the voice of partisan strife was hushed in patriotic silence. One of the brightest chapters in the history of our country will record the feet that, daring this eventful period, the great
<c06>
leaders of the opposition, sinking the partisan in the patriot, rushed to the support of the government, and became its ablest and -bravest defenders against all assailants until the conspiracy was crushed and abandoned, when they resumed their former positions as party leaders upon political issues.
These acts of patriotic devotion have never been deemed evidences of infidelity or political treachery, on the part of Clay and Webster, to the principles and organization of the old Whig party. Nor have I any apprehension that the firm and unanimous support which the Democratic leaders and masses are now giving to the Constitution and the Union, will ever be deemed evidences of infidelity to Democratic principles, or a want of loyalty to the organization and creed of the Democratic party. If we hope to regain and perpetuate the ascendency of our party, we should never forget that a man cannot be a true Democrat unless he is a loyal patriot.
With the sincere hope that these my conscientious convictions may coincide with those of my friends, 1 am, very truly, yours,
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS.
To VIRGIL HICKOX, Esq., Chairman State Democratic Committee.
WE WANT PEACE,
The National Intelligencer thus ably and earnestly and fairly discusses the "peace" question, as we occasionally hear it put in issue by certain men and papers:-
"As early as the 6th of March last, the 'Southern Congress," sitting at Montgomery, authorized Gen. Jefferson Davis, as President of the Confederate States, to raise a military force of 100,000 men. It was not until the following 15th of April, and after the war' had been commenced' by the reduction, of Fort Sumter, that President Lincoln issued his call for 75,000 volunteers. To what ultimate purposes the' war' might be conducted by its originators was at the same time publicly intimated by Mr. Walker, the Confederate Secretary of War, when, speaking on the eve of Sumter's fell, he held the following language:-
'No man could tell where the war this day commenced would end; but he would prophesy that the flag which now flaunts the breeze here would float over the dome of the old capitol at Washington before the 1st of May. Let them try Southern chivalry, and test the strength of Southern resources, and it might: float eventually over Faneuil Hall itself.'
It is in the presence of such facts, and in the prospect of such threats, sustained, moreover, as the latter were, by the consenting voice of the more violent and inflammatory of the secession press, that we are doomed to hear from certain disloyal parties and prints incessant tributes to the 'blessings of peace.'
We concur in all such tributes, but the source from which they proceed does not always inspire us with entire confidence in their sincerity, and their very utterance on the part of some implies a rare degree of effrontery. They who were the first to disturb the peace of the nation are not well selected as the oracles of this divine evangel. We hear much said at the present day by these same equivocal' peace-makers' in deprecation of' invasion,' but it is instructive to remark that by this term they mean only the southward march of the national army in support of the national authority. The hundred-fold' invasions' of the Federal Government, as witnessed (long before that government had raised its finger) in the seizure of United States forts, the rifling of United States mints, the firing on the United States flag, the capture of United States soldiers, the pillage of United States arsenals, and the appropriation of United States ships and revenue cutters, all pass for no account with these sturdy and vehement denouncers of federal' invasion' And, reduced to the mere aspect of its territorial relations, and apart from all considerations of relative rightfulness, on which side has the' invasion' been more' ruthless' since the war began by the act of the Confederate Government? The events passing before our eyes afford an easy answer.
On the one hand, we have the Federal Government 'invading' Virginia only for the sake of defending the National Capital against menaced attack, and of dispersing a hostile force congregated in its neighborhood. On the other, we have seen the loyal State of Maryland' invaded' by an insurrectionary body of men, and her property' wantonly' destroyed; we have seen Kentucky' invaded' and an arsenal within her borders stripped of its cannon and muskets; and while we write, Missouri is 'invaded' for the purpose of forcing upon her people a deposed and self-exiled Governor, and of driving out of the Union a State which prefers to maintain unimpaired her federal relations.
When, therefore, we listen to fervent adjuration in favor of' peace,' we are constrained to inquire what sort of a peace it is meant to commend to our acceptance; for if is be a plea in behalf of that 'peaceable secession' which vindicates its claim to recognition by a rash appeal to arms, we can have nothing to say in behalf of any such political solecism. Among the last to abandon the hope or to remit unceasing labors for the preservation of peace, we shall be among the first to welcome its return, provided it be such a peace as consists with the safety, honor and integrity of the loyal States and the Union. But for a peace which consults only the interests, convenience and caprices of a revolutionary government, and which leaves to that established by Washington in the field and Madison in the council only the poor privilege of accepting the terms created by insurrectionary schism, we have no such preference as leads us to espouse with forwardness the cause of political right, as we understand their relations."
SCENE AFTER THE BATTLE OF CHEAT
RIVER.
The following extract is from the correspondence of a letter-writer in the Cincinnati Gazette. Most graphically does it depict the horrors of the strife in which we are involved, and in thunder tones it calls for speedy and condign retribution on those who have, by their unholy ambition and love of power, incited these rebellious movements. In speaking of Gen. Garnett, the writer says:-
Not a Virginian stood by him when ho fell. The whole cowardly crew had fled; and of all that army of four thousand, but one was with his General-a slight boyish figure, with scarcely the down of approaching manhood on his face, and wearing the Georgia uniform and button. Bravely he had stood by his General to the last, and when Garnett fell, he fell too. There they lay, in that wild region, on the banks of the Cheat, with "back to the field and face to the foe." The one was the representative of Virginia aristocracy and Virginia treason, educated, honored, accomplished, and now fighting against the flag under which he had been reared.
The United States Constitution is a movement with, deaths and an agreement with hell"
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of; republics, was ever; invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than." I half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property-under the name of persons. Little did the members, of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOBS QUINCY ADAMS.
leaders of the opposition, sinking the partisan in the patriot, rushed to the support of the government, and became its ablest and -bravest defenders against all assailants until the conspiracy was crushed and abandoned, when they resumed their former positions as party leaders upon political issues.
These acts of patriotic devotion have never been deemed evidences of infidelity or political treachery, on the part of Clay and Webster, to the principles and organization of the old Whig party. Nor have I any apprehension that the firm and unanimous support which the Democratic leaders and masses are now giving to the Constitution and the Union, will ever be deemed evidences of infidelity to Democratic principles, or a want of loyalty to the organization and creed of the Democratic party. If we hope to regain and perpetuate the ascendancy of our party, we should never forget that a man cannot be a true Democrat unless he is a loyal patriot.
With the sincere hope that these my conscientious convictions may coincide with those of my friends, 1 am, very truly, yours,
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS.
To VIRGIL HICKOX, Esq., Chairman State Democratic Committee.
WE WANT PEACE,
The National Intelligencer thus ably and earnestly and fairly discusses the "peace" question, as we occasionally hear it put in issue by certain men and papers:-
"As early as the 6th of March last, the 'Southern Congress," sitting at Montgomery, authorized Gen. Jefferson Davis, as President of the Confederate States, to raise a military force of 100,000 men. It was not until the following 15th of April, and after the war' had been commenced' by the reduction, of Fort Sumter, that President Lincoln issued his call for 75,000 volunteers. To what ultimate purposes the' war' might be conducted by its originators was at the same time publicly intimated by Mr. Walker, the Confederate Secretary of War, when, speaking on the eve of Sumter's fell, he held the following language:-
'No man could tell where the war this day commenced would end; but he would prophesy that the flag which now flaunts the breeze here would float over the dome of the old capitol at Washington before the 1st of May. Let them try Southern chivalry, and test the strength of Southern resources, and it might: float eventually over Faneuil Hall itself.'
It is in the presence of such facts, and in the prospect of such threats, sustained, moreover, as the latter were, by the consenting voice of the more violent and inflammatory of the secession press, that we are doomed to hear from certain disloyal parties and prints incessant tributes to the 'blessings of peace.'
We concur in all such tributes, but the source from which they proceed does not always inspire us with entire confidence in their sincerity, and their very utterance on the part of some implies a rare degree of effrontery. They who were the first to disturb the peace of the nation are not well selected as the oracles of this divine evangel. We hear much said at the present day by these same equivocal' peace-makers' in deprecation of' invasion,' but it is instructive to remark that by this term they mean only the southward march of the national army in support of the national authority. The hundred-fold' invasions' of the Federal Government, as witnessed (long before that government had raised its finger) in the seizure of United States forts, the rifling of United States mints, the firing on the United States flag, the capture of United States soldiers, the pillage of United States arsenals, and the appropriation of United States ships and revenue cutters, all pass for no account with these sturdy and vehement denouncers of federal' invasion' And, reduced to the mere aspect of its territorial relations, and apart from all considerations of relative rightfulness, on which side has the' invasion' been more' ruthless' since the war began by the act of the Confederate Government? The events passing before our eyes afford an easy answer.
On the one hand, we have the Federal Government 'invading' Virginia only for the sake of defending the National Capital against menaced attack, and of dispersing a hostile force congregated in its neighborhood. On the other, we have seen the loyal State of Maryland' invaded' by an insurrectionary body of men, and her property' wantonly' destroyed; we have seen Kentucky' invaded' and an arsenal within her borders stripped of its cannon and muskets; and while we write, Missouri is 'invaded' for the purpose of forcing upon her people a deposed and self-exiled Governor, and of driving out of the Union a State which prefers to maintain unimpaired her federal relations.
When, therefore, we listen to fervent adjuration in favor of' peace,' we are constrained to inquire what sort of a peace it is meant to commend to our acceptance; for if is be a plea in behalf of that 'peaceable secession' which vindicates its claim to recognition by a rash appeal to arms, we can have nothing to say in behalf of any such political solecism. Among the last to abandon the hope or to remit unceasing labors for the preservation of peace, we shall be among the first to welcome its return, provided it be such a peace as consists with the safety, honor and integrity of the loyal States and the Union. But for a peace which consults only the interests, convenience and caprices of a revolutionary government, and which leaves to that established by Washington in the field and Madison in the council only the poor privilege of accepting the terms created by insurrectionary schism, we have no such preference as leads us to espouse with forwardness the cause of political right, as we understand their relations."
SCENE AFTER THE BATTLE OF CHEAT
RIVER.
The following extract is from the correspondence of a letter-writer in the Cincinnati Gazette. Most graphically does it depict the horrors of the strife in which we are involved, and in thunder tones it calls for speedy and condign retribution on those who have, by their unholy ambition and love of power, incited these rebellious movements. In speaking of Gen. Garnett, the writer says:-
Not a Virginian stood by him when ho fell. The whole cowardly crew had fled; and of all that army of four thousand, but one was with his General-a slight boyish figure, with scarcely the down of approaching manhood on his face, and wearing the Georgia uniform and button. Bravely he had stood by his General to the last, and when Garnett fell, he fell too. There they lay, in that wild region, on the banks of the Cheat, with "back to the field and face to the foe." The one was the representative of Virginia aristocracy and Virginia treason, educated, honored, accomplished, and now fighting against the flag under which he had been reared.
The United States Constitution is a movement with, deaths and an agreement with hell"
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of; republics, was ever; invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than." I half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property-under the name of persons. Little did the members, of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOBS QUINCY ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and which he had followed to many a field of glory; the other, his deluded follower from another State, evidently from the lower walks of life, and with only a brave heart and a stern determination to stand by the cause he had espoused to the bitter end. And there, on that rugged bank, had come the solemn issue. They met it courageously, and fell as brave men fall.
Returning from the bluff where Garnett lay, I went up to the bluff on which the enemy had been posted. The first object that caught the eye was a large iron rifled-cannon, (a six-pounder.) which they had left in their precipitate flight. The star-spangled banner of one of our regiments floated over it. Around was a sickening sight. Along the brink of the bluff lay ten bodies, stiffening in their own gore, in every contortion which their death anguish had produced. Others were gasping in the last agonies, and still others were writhing with horrible but not mortal wounds, surrounded by the soldiers whom they really believed were about to plunge the bayonet to their hearts. Never before had I so ghastly a realization of the horrid nature of this fraternal struggle. These men were all Americans-men whom we had once been proud to claim as countrymen-some of them natives of our own Northern States. One poor fellow was shot through the bowels. The ground was soaked with his blood. I stooped, and asked if anything could be done to make him more comfortable; he only whispered, I'm so cold!" He lingered for nearly an hour in terrible agony. Another-just developing into vigorous manhood-had been shot through the head by a large minie ball. The skull was shockingly fractured; his brains were protruding from the bullet hole, and lay spread on the grass by his head; and he was still living! I knelt by his side, and moistened his lips with water from my canteen, and an officer who came up a moment afterward poured a few drops of brandy from his pocket flask into his mouth. God help us! what more could we do? A surgeon rapidly examined the wound, sadly shook his head, saying it were better for him if he were dead already, and passed on to the next. And there that, poor Georgian lay, gasping in the untold and unimaginable agonies of that fearful death, for more than an hour!
Near him lay a Virginian, shot through the mouth, and already stiffening. He appeared to have own stooping when he was shot; the ball struck the. tip of his nose, cutting that off. cut his upper lip, knocked out his teeth, passed through the head, and came out at the back of the neck. The expression of his ghastly face, was awful beyond description. And near him lay another, with a ball through the right eye, which had passed out through the back of the head. The glassy eyes were all open; some seemed still gasping with opened mouths: all were smeared in their own blood, and cold and clammy, with the dews of death upon them.
But why dwell on the sickening details? May I never see another field like that! There were on one spot ten corpses; two more died before they could be removed to the hospital; three died during the night; another was dying when I left.
All around the field lay men with wounds in the log, or arm, or face, groaning with pain, and trembling lest the barbarous foes they expected to find in our troops should commence mangling and torturing them at once. Words can hardly express their astonishment when our men gently removed them to a little knoll, laid them all together, and formed a circle of bayonets around them, to keep off the curious crowd, till they could be removed to the hospital, and eared for by our surgeons.
There was a terrible moral in that group on the knoll: the dead, the dying, the wounded, protected by the very men they had been fighting, and who were as ready then as they had ever been to defend, by their strong arms, every right these self-made enemies of theirs had ever enjoyed.
Every attention was shown the enemys wounded by our surgeons. Limbs were amputated, wounds were dressed with the same care with which our own brave volunteers were treated. The wounds on the battle-field removed all differences. In the hospital all were, alike, the objects of a common humanity that left none beyond its limits.
Among the enemys wounded was a young Massachusetts boy, who had received a severe wound in the leg. He had been visiting in the South, and had been impressed into the ranks. As soon as the battle began, he broke from the rebel ranks, and attempted to run down the hill, and cross over to our side. His own lieutenant saw him in the act. and shot him with a revolver! Listen to such a tale as that, as I did. by the side of the sad young sufferer, and tell me if your blood does not boil warmer than ever before, as you think, not of the poor deluded followers, but of the leaders, who, for personal ambition and personal spite, began this infernal rebellion.

NEVER GIVE WAY TO BUGBEARS.
BY LIEUT. GENERAL T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Such was the advice of the greatest man in Cambridge when George, the Third was King,-and who was not a bishop, because he was supposed to have too strong a head upon his shoulders.
A bugbear is a terriculum, or hobgoblin, put forth by simple or interested people, to lead astray silly men or women who are open to be made game of.
The bugbear of the present day is, that if the men whose ancestors landed from the Mayflower touch the hellish institution" which threatens to cut their throats, there must be deeds and sufferings, in comparison with which the pigs of Lord Somerville's breed, running wild about the country," and the clerk of the parish sore wounded in the hinder parts," (which are what a clerical wit threatened as the consequence of a fortnight's war in England,) are less than dust in the balance.
Nobody denies the evils of war; but war begun against us is not to be put down by behaving sillily. When it has been worth while to raise five hundred thousand men and five hundred millions of dollars to put down a rebellion, it is worth while to make such a use of them as shall prevent the like rebellious forever, by cutting off their source. And that, not by acts of severity against the defeated rebels, but by doing the only thing which can prevent their being, at no long time hence, the sufferers from their own iniquity, which the good men and true have now the power to hinder, if they like. What excuse shall the true men make, if they cooker up the evil by refusing to apply the highhanded remedy, which God and the Adjutant-General's muster-roll have placed at their command?
Women, it seems, are to be the cheval de bataille of the bugbear-makers. In entering the stronghold of the blackest pirate that ever deformed his face with beard, there is nobody that would not desire to take care of the women. But we must not be made fools of on this point, by the colleagues of the pirate out of doors. Recur we, therefore, to the comparison already once put forward.
Suppose the British West India Islands had broken into rebellion on the first apprehension of a design to put an end to slavery; and this not passively but actively, by privateering against the commerce of the rest of the country, and storming the forts occupied by the troops of the legitimate sovereign. And when a force, to all appearance competent, is preparing to put down the outbreak, stand forth the anti-slavery men. (for so, no doubt, they would call themselves.) and cry, Above all things, take care you give no encouragement to the slaves to assist you! Do not invite them to join you, either to make muskets or to do the heavy work in the sunshine which sends white men to hospital. If you do, remember you will be responsible for all that can come under the four pleas of the law, against every resident, male and female, of English blood."
How the world would laugh at such a threat! It hardly needs proving, that those who could be the dupes of such a miserable bugbear would show folly only to be equaled in bulk by the knavery of the promoters.
Suppose the English General, in charge of putting down the rebellion, to issue in General Orders. Slavery is non-existent in all parts occupied by the British forces. In the parts not yet occupied. the slaves are invited to make no movement before the liberating force arrives in their own parish. Any attempt at major violence's, on the part of white or colored, will be put down by military execution as soon as it can be reached. As fast as any district is occupied, volunteers from the colored people will be invited to join the three West India regiments and the Land Transport Corps, on terms which will be notified. Planters willing to continue their works, by giving present support to the laborers on them, will receive immunity for the past on entering the British camp, and military protection
<c02>
for the future. Vagrants found committing depredations will be sent to a punishment gang."
Suppose an English Commander-in-Chief to have the genius to issue such an order,-as why should he not?-and what becomes of the pretended terrorists at home, who affect to be alarmed for the condition of every white female in the Antilles? The whole is plainly a fraud, a delusion,-it may be of weakness of head, or it may be of obliquity of heart. The world is not destined to be finally ruled by either.
One point to be borne in mind, in everything connected with these transactions,-a thing to be written on the bells of the horses, and inscribed on every pot or bowl, lay or clerical, in Jerusalem and Judah,-is, that the defeated rebels have no right to claim compensation for the suppression of their nuisance, when they are offered the opportunity of carrying on their works from this moment in a cheaper manner than before. It is as if the Irishmen, prohibited from ploughing their horses by the tail, set up a demand to be paid for the horse. The answer would be, Strange mixture of rogue and fool-the harness way is cheapest!"-Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser.

STARTLING DISCLOSURES.
Southern Secret Service Money in New Jersey-
Press and People to be Suborned-Southern Agents distributing Secret Service Money to New Jersey Newspapers-The Rebels paying the Expenses of the Peace Demonstrations in New Jersey-$5,000 Blood Money left in Newark to Aid Treason there-Their Agents in Our Midst.
The rebels and destroyers of the Union are at work in the Middle States. During the last fortnight, agents of the Southern Confederacy have been visiting various sections of New Jersey, inaugurating movements for systematic peace meetings throughout the State. Individuals have been guaranteed against all expense, and these treason movements have been organized with diabolical shrewdness through dupes or willing tools in the late Breckinridge party, who, to gratify their hate, would help to crumble our free institutions for the sake of establishing a Southern monarchy.
The leading Breckinridge Democratic newspapers of New Jersey have commenced a systematic warfare against all the measures of the government to sustain the Union. We have been informed, on what we consider good authority, that &5,000 was received in Newark recently, from the Montgomery Secret Service Fund, to be applied in supporting secession papers in our State, and to be expended in getting up peace meetings.
This accounts for the treasonable sentiments of those hypocritical papers which are giving aid and comfort to the enemy at the North, and by advocating pence and compromise with armed rebels, endeavoring to dishearten the people and to embarrass the government.
The Newark Evening Journal predicts certain defeat for the North. The editor of that mendacious sheet proclaimed that an army of 300,000 men had been defeated at Manassas," and now traitorously declares that our enemies arc fighting for their liberties." The Hunterdon Democrat contains a long communication, evidently written at the South, in which President Lincoln is alluded to as an old Northern mud-sill." The True American teems with Southern ideas and rebel sentiments.
Southern blood money is being expended in New Jersey for peace meetings and treason newspapers. These agents are now traversing our State under the advisement of certain Breckinridge politicians, polluting the people with gold stolen from the federal treasury, or wrung from their helpless victims at the South.
Beware of these emissaries of the Southern foe! Beware of these agents of treason from abroad and their tory sympathizers here! Mark them well, and remember each one for all time to come. Let the stain of his treachery rest on him as did God's mark of infamy upon the murderer Cain. Know that wherever these peace meetings are held, they are the infernal machines of an unscrupulous foe, and that the secession newspapers of New Jersey are receiving pay from the Montgomery Secret Service Fund-the blood-money circulated by the rebels to seduce weak men and weak presses from their duty to their country in the hour of peril.-Paterson (N. J.) Guardian.
The City Council of Paterson, on Monday night, passed the following resolution, withdrawing all official connection from the Register, an anti-war or secession paper whose articles lately have outraged the community by their treasonable sentiments:-
Whereas, the present crisis of our country demands that every friend of the Constitution and the Union should rally for its support; and
Whereas, the Daily Register of this city is evidently a friend of the deadly foes of this government,-therefore,
Resolved, That the Daily Register be no longer authorized to publish the proceedings of this Board, or its ordinances; and that all persons acting by authority of this Board, be directed not to procure printing or advertising to be done in that establishment.
The City Council is so equally divided, politically, that the Democrats, at its organization, elected most of the officers. No division was called on the above resolutions, and they were passed as the expression of all parties in the Board.-Ibid.
We extract the following from the New York Atlas. After alluding to the destruction of the presses in Concord and Bangor, the editor says,-
"'Hard usage'! say the ultra advocates of free speech and a free press. Hard usage, certainly! But it is hard usage to a burglar to put irons on his wrists and ankles, and shut him up in a dark prison for an indefinite number of years. And if it be considered a rough way of dealing with sneaking traitors, let it be remembered that the Union papers have all been suppressed at the South.' Slop them all!' cries the New Orleans Crescent, and the advice is followed.' Here, there is an immense outcry about the' freedom of the press' if even the worst of them are touched!
Let it be remembered that these traitor papers, contemptible as they are, arc not powerless. 'One sinner destroyed) much good.' One evil word may have endless consequences. The few demands for dishonorable' peace!' made upon the government, have, originated in the insidious treason of these newspapers. Traitors only half resolved have been made wholly so by the same evil influence. If there has been any pause in recruiting for the army, these barking dogs are likewise responsible; and no one doubts that the continual attempts at embarrassing the national authority by one-horse judges have the same origin. Still more, what little there has been of disaffection in the army may be traced to this Upas tree. Are we called upon to allow it to grow and flourish, and throw out its black poison in our midst? or shall we be justified in abating the nuisance at any hazard? Once more we remark, that these papers must stop their treason, or stop themselves: and the easiest way will be found the best way, for them as well as for others."
It is to be deplored that mobs have violently suppressed several secession papers in New England; but it is more to be deplored that there were found men so mean and degraded as to sell themselves to the Southern traitors, and to pursue a course which rendered necessary the suppression of their incendiary papers.
It is said that sums of money have been furnished from the Southern rebels in aid of their Northern defenders. If such funds have been appropriated to the support of the Northern newspapers which have been violently suppressed, it will account for, I if not excuse, the harsh remedy which has been applied. While a respectable, candid and truth-telling newspaper would not be allowed to exist a single day where Jeff. Davis's authority is enforced, is it strange that his own agents should experience difficulties among the people whose government these infatuated traitors are endeavoring to destroy?-Lynn News.
TORY PAPERS SUPPRESSED. On Thursday last, U. S. Marshal Millward, of Philadelphia, seized that vile tory sheet, the New York Daily News, as it arrived on the boat to be sold about the streets of Philadelphia, also the packages destined to points further South. He also seized the type and printing materials of the Christian Observer, a tory paper under the guise of religion. This is a move in the right direction, and we trust it will be followed up by prompt proceedings against every tory sheet in the State.-Chester County (Pa.) Times.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 30, 1861.
THE ABOLITIONISTS AND THE WAR.
In the Liberator of June 21st, we copied an editorial article from the London Herald of Peace, in which a violent and most extraordinary attack was made upon the American government for not allowing Jefferson Davis and his traitorous conclave to have their own way, sever the Union through violence and blood, steal whatever they could lay their hands upon belonging to the government, and do whatever might seem good in their own eyes, without resistance or molestation. The American Abolitionists, also, were hotly assailed as recreant to their professions of peace, and to the Anti-Slavery cause for which they have suffered and sacrificed so much, and toiled so long, because they were giving their sympathies to the government on the issue presented by the Southern rebels, whose desperate conduct and devilish purpose as against all free institutions elicited not a syllable of reproof from this peaceful"(!) London Aristech's. To that article we made reply, showing its allegations to be false, and its position virtually a pro-war and a pro-slavery one.
In our present number, we copy in full the rejoinder of the Herald of Peace to our animadversions,-though that periodical has not the fairness to imitate our example, and allow our reply to appear in its pages. Though guilty of gross injustice, it takes nothing back, but exhibits the same perverse state of mind as in its first attack-claiming, indeed, to be as innocent as a lamb, and the object of a gratuitous assault on our part! We, also," it says," have come in for our share of that pitiless storm of ireful invective which is now pouring from the American heavens upon all mankind"! How adroitly the assailant here assumes the attitude of a defendant! But the dodge will not answer. Our good friends in America," he adds, insist upon it that they do well to be angry with us, just because we cannot run into the same excess of warlike riot with themselves." This is gross exaggeration and shameful caricature. What does the writer mean by excess of warlike riot"? Has the American government done any thing in excess? On the contrary, has it not exhibited unparalleled long-suffering and forbearance towards the conspirators against its life? Before moving a finger in self-defence, did it not wait until its forts, arsenals, mints, custom-houses, post-offices, &c., &c., in the seceding States, had all been perfidiously seized, and used for treasonable purposes, and a new confederacy formed within its limits for its ultimate overthrow? In its great extremity of danger, has it summoned too many troops, or put forth needless energy, or resorted to a single unjustifiable measure,-judging it from a governmental plane of action? Or has it not, rather, exhibited an almost criminal moderation-an absence of thorough earnestness of purpose-a preposterous leniency of treatment of its murderous foes-and a strong disinclination to push them to the wall, by an active and energetic employment of all the means at its command? The excess of warlike riot" is language applicable only to the Southern conspirators; and with what regard for the sacred cause of peace, or the claims of the oppressed, or the free institutions of the North, the London censor can allow them to go unwhipt of justice," and bestow all his censures upon the other side, which now embodies all that is left of true manhood and personal freedom in the land, is to us inexplicable. It is the strangest manifestation of peace that we have ever heard or read of. It is the ancient deceptive cry of Peace, peace, when there is no peace." We also believe in peace, as radically and earnestly as the London writer; but how that is to be promoted by a cowardly truckling: of the Government to the enemies of every thing that makes for peace, and by granting them all their impious demands, in order that there may be a cessation of conflict, we are unable to see. Other things being equal, in any issue where there is a right and a wrong side, we cannot but desire the triumph of the right.
But, says our reprover, They won't allow us even to say we are sorry that they are about to be involved in the miseries of civil war." Indeed! Won't they? Is this a truthful statement? Who objects to it? Who at the North, whether of one party or another, is not equally sorry? But sorrow, in itself, is no remedy, and a lugubrious countenance no help. The war has been forced upon the government, even against the most humiliating concessions on its part to avert it; and to bring it to a speedy close, in a right manner and on a true basis, is now a matter of general solicitude. It is not British sorrow that gives offence or creates surprise-far from it; but it is the disposition to confound all distinctions between the belligerent parties-to throw the blame upon those who are contending for their homes and firesides, for all that pertains to freedom of conscience and the liberty of speech-and to allow the traitors to escape without condemnation or arraignment.
"Among our assailants," says the editor of the Herald of Peace, is Mr. William Lloyd Garrison, in the columns of the Liberator. Mr. Garrison is very angry, and, therefore, not very logical"-&c. An assailant is one who commences an attack, not he who repels it. All that we did was simply to deny the justice of certain charges brought by this editor against the American Abolitionists in special, and the people of the North in general, in relation to the war. Whether we were logical or not, angry or not, his readers could form no judgment, because what we wrote was carefully kept from their eyes; while, on the other hand, (in accordance with our uniform practice ever since we occupied an editorial chair,) we printed his long objurgatory article without abridgment-thus allowing the readers of the Liberator to see and judge for themselves as to the strength of the reasoning used, and the quality of spirit evinced, on either side. He pays us a very high compliment for our past fidelity, for which we would return a proper acknowledgment; but what inducement he finds for us to stain our past earner by compromising our principles, now,-as, inferentially, he seems to imply,-we cannot imagine, and he does not even hint. He sums up the issue between us as follows:-
"The two points in our article that have given the greatest offence are, first, our assertion that this is not an anti-slavery war; and, secondly, our lamentation over what we deemed a departure from principle on the part of those anti-slavery men, who, up to this time, having emphatically disclaimed the use of any but moral means in their conflict with slavery, have gone in for this war with undisguised exultation and violence."
Let us see. This is not an anti-slavery war." When or where have we declared it to be an anti-shivery war? Have we not been painfully conscious of the repulsive incongruities with which the war is disfigured on the part of the government, so far as slavery is concerned? Have we not promptly and strongly censured those Generals who have volunteered to put down slave insurrections and restore fugitive slaves? Are we not constantly endeavoring to show the government, and all who are for preserving the government, that in no other way can Southern treason be extirpated, and permanent peace secured, than by abolishing slavery under the war power? And, undeniably, all the signs of the times indicate that this great act of justice and humanity-this master-stroke of public policy-is approving itself to the good sense and sound judgment of the people, without distinction of party. Since our first reply to the Herald of Peace, the slaves of all disloyal slaveholders have been freed as soon as they could place themselves under the national flag; and such fugitives as belong to loyal masters are also to be retained, leaving the question of compensation to be settled hereafter. This is a momentous stride; and an official proclamation of the government to the effect, that slavery is abolished throughout the land, must, ere long, receive the public sanction. There is no other alternative, except national destruction.
<c04>
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
Delivered at Allston Hall, Boston, on the Anniversary of the Birthday of THEODORE PARKER, August 23.
MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-The anniversary which calls as together, to-night, is the birthday of our friend THEODORE PARKER. If there was any one feature of his character more prominent than another, it was that he never looked back, except for instruction. The true bent of his mind was to look forward to what he considered his duty. I do not like to look back, and sketch his character or life. If I wanted a monument, I should bid you look round upon this nation, shattered by the scepter of Justice, and ask you to see the effect of that long life of his, devoted to the prayer that God would execute justice between man and man. I think if he were here tonight, his keen eye would glisten at the sight of what he would see about him. Every plan of his life successful, every prophecy fulfilled, every hope gratified. 
He belonged to that class which, without office, has been able, by simple weight of character and thought, to revolutionize this country. He died just at the daybreak of the success of those efforts, and to-day the nation reels under the blows of his mighty right hand. I thank God for it! For us who sympathies with him, we may lift up our heads; for the day of our deliverance is come. The sky is all bright, from the center to the circumference, with gleams of hope. God has broken up the foundations of the Union, and He will not renew it
Theodore Parker, I think, would look upon to-day as the trial-day of democracy in this country. He prophesied this day-what use shall we make of it? What would he bid us do? What is the lesson that his lips, if they could break into sound to-day, would give us? Each one must guess for himself. It seems to me we are passing through the trial-day of democracy. We may perceive, if we don't guarantee that the people are equal to the crisis,-that, while the masses grope more or less blindly, they love justice, they mean liberty. (Applause.) They mean to hold the girdle of this country together, and consecrate it to liberty. (Renewed applause.) As we read history, the democracy of Greece fell because leaders and people were both rotten. There was never a voice raised against it, except that of Demosthenes. There was no person in the front rank or in the rear, who had an intelligent appreciation of liberty. Now, the uprising to-day-the purpose of the million-seems to me to indicate that the people are equal to the emergency. We know what we want, and we want it with a will; and unless be popular wish is cheated, this Republic will be preserved in its integrity. It will be preserved, as it can only be preserved, on the basis of the Declaration of Independence. To-day the Administration has been six months in office, and what has it done? Six months! The weapons which our people have had placed in its hands, how has it used them? Give two months to root out the public offices, and what has it done? Europe looks across the water, and sees twenty millions of people-their bonds at 96 in the market, their harvest in their barns, and their prosperity on a substantial basis. Europe also looks across the water, and sees eight millions without credit, without food, and without munitions of war. The Congress of the one sits guarded by 100,000 soldiers, and the Congress of the other unassailed. Europe sees the North acting constantly on the defensive, except when she has been twice beaten back like a stricken hound. It sees the weaker portion aggressive at every point. I ask, then, in these four months, what has the Administration done in response to the people? It has done nothing with that immense military array. Has it done anything in response to popular sentiment? Has it set forth any principle, or any avowal of purpose, or any great public opinion which they are to use? Not a line-not a word! The world speculates upon the purposes of the United States. It seems to me so far,-and six months is not a very short time, at a crisis like this,-that the hour has come, but not the man. (Applause.) No man with purpose indicated-no gallant spirit to gather up the enthusiasm of the people-that indispensable requisite, personal loyalty, which has carried all nations through like emergencies-none. My view is, that the trial of democracy shows the masses equal to the emergency; but the Administration not equal to it, either in courage, capacity, or statesmanship.
Everything is possible. Even this Administration may be outspoken and energetic; but what fair ground have we to expect it? The commander-in-chief was born in Virginia, and the President was born in Kentucky, and no man gets-over his birth-place. The fact is, they look upon the question with State pride and State sympathy, whereas no one should attempt to re-build a nation but upon the corner-stone of eternal justice. Time is slipping away, and how long it may be necessary to educate the President up to the level of efficient leadership, I do not know; but if it takes much longer to move those halting limbs and open those eyes, Europe will take her own course. Whether Treason shall be called Revolution, is only a question of time.
If, on the 1st of March next, this country stands as it does now-the North defensive and the South offensive-Washington threatened and the Southern cities free-every one will expect Europe to stretch her hands across the ocean, and acknowledge the Confederacy. Every month, therefore, is vastly important; for the conquest of the South is not the' business of a day. The question lies between secession and hasty recognition. I don't believe that there is a Union man at the South worth minding, except the blacks. There arc hundreds, aye, thousands of men who have Union sympathies, but they are like men carved in marble-they have not the courage to make themselves felt. The 
only men to count on the checker board, to-day, arc the blacks. Two hundred years of slavery and the violation of every right man holds dear, the hoarded vengeance of six generations, make the blacks inevitably and irrevocably loyal. Whoever fails, they remain true to the banner that promises liberty and justice, if not revenge. Let our regiments penetrate the South with that message. Let Fremont descend the Mississippi, and when he falls on New Orleans, he will have half a million of men under his flag. On the contrary, what voice is it that comes from Washington? Why, the inevitable statute of confiscation was wrung from the President by half the Senate on their knees. Bull Run might have taught him what was to be done. And the New York Herald, which is always well posted, says, One victory, and then offer such terms as the South never dreamed of asking." Now it seems to be the duty of the hour to show unmistakably, by every channel by which public opinion makes itself felt, that the purpose of the Northern States, if such purpose exists, is to conquer-and conquer in the service of freedom. (Cheers.) There are two reasons for that. One is, should the South dream of compromise-that she may see that the Constitution of'87 is at an end, and that there can be no other, except one based upon equal liberty or manhood.
We are willing to accept the challenge now made to us-a Union for slavery, or a Union without it; and we abide the issue, no matter at what cost of fire, and blood, and treasure. We will make no peace but the peace of justice. (Applause.)
Men complain of the London Times. Do you suppose that the writers of that paper took their cue from reporters in these States? Why, they obtain their information from their own Government; and when they say that in this war our Government ignores slavery, they only speak the intelligence they receive from Washington. Lancashire and the Bank of England never base their information upon the speculations of a vagabond reporter. (Laughter.) They base their action upon the best information which the ministers give them. And we receive back from the press of London and Paris, the news of what our Government means.
The Cabinet talk of re-constructing this country as it was, but we mean to tell them that it can't be done. (Cheers.) We are to teach them that this war is the
<c05>
most intolerable abuse of the 19th century, the matchless crime of this generation, unless it means the emancipation of four millions of victims. We are to teach the Administration that thirty millions of people are 
not to be hurled into the hell of civil war, unless they hare such a purpose as will make it the holiest crusade which the annals of the world has ever shown. It shall be a war to cut out the eating cancer which is destroying our leading men, and for which the people are ready, needing nothing but leaders. (Cheers.)
You and I do not often see such a production as Gen. Butler's last letter from Fortress Monroe. It is the noblest document I have seen in this war. Coming from you or me, it would have been called impracticable, fanatic; but the moment it came from a Democratic general-from a general who had led the troops of the North on the sacred soil of Virginia-the whole North cried out, Amen! It crystallizes the sentiment of the North into one purpose. It was a speech and an act. What we want of the Administration is an indication of a purpose-not an argument, but a proposition. Why, the ideas of the gunner are infinitely more important than his cannon. You and I are to load the muskets which we saw pass through our streets to-day with the purpose of liberty, otherwise their charge is empty powder.
Now, if the Administration takes another six months for the education of the Secretary of War in raising regiments, and the Secretary of the Treasury in raising notes, and the Secretary of State in blocking the wheels, why, then, one or two things happen. Foreign states will no longer leave it a domestic question. They will start to their feet, and make certain demands. What course will the nation take then? Will she yield? Perhaps so-perhaps not. You and I think that the spirit of Cromwellian Republicanism still exists among us, and that spirit, inscribing Emancipation upon its banner, will carry it to the-Gulf, in defiance of all opposition, abroad or at home. (Cheers.) But with such changing elements, no man can be sure of this.
I understand that the Minister to Vienna tells England that if she moves but one step forward from her present position, it would free every slave, and destroy every cotton crop for the next three years. I almost believe it; but, by that time, the American people will have had twelve months of war-defeats as well as victories-and may possibly admit that it would be better to acknowledge the Southern Confederacy, and try to settle down into two States. I believe that the Union is the Gibraltar of slavery-that the Union out of the way, slavery cannot exist for ten years. Sorry should I be to see that the leaders were wanting, and that the masses were baulked of their purpose. I should acknowledge it as the most precious boon of the present generation if the four million of slaves would come before you daily-you who love the Union-and thus induce you to compel the Administration to do its duty.
I know that there is not the first germ of a purpose in the Cabinet at Washington-that you have to create it-that every member of the Cabinet wants some one to relieve him of the responsibility of action,-some even asking God to create an insurrection which would compel them to do what they dare not on their own responsibility. Now, one of the most triumphant, useful journals has closed its lips. All over the free States, the men who should have led their party are silent. I do not arraign them; but when this dead weight of silence settles down upon a people, while we are to be whipped into liberty-that every free press should-be silent, while Washington is to be shelled into liberty-are there no men to utter their sentiments boldly, in order that there may be one agglomerate purpose to hurl it on the head of the Cabinet?
You may say that I arraign the Cabinet. I do. Those six months should have witnessed the capture of Charleston and New Orleans, and the landing of 6,000 men on Sullivan's Island. Sixty days after, there would have been a jubilee in every hovel in Carolina. Instead of that, I defy the most sanguine Republican to tell me what his President means-to tell me when this war shall be conducted with anything like that vigor which a bankrupt public demands. A million a day! Our best blood shed in ineffectual forays! Gen. Lyon-a man worth half-a-dozen victories-sacrificed to the War Department!
It is time that every press should cry out that this inhuman butchery should cease, or vindicate itself in the face of the world. In six months, England and France-the only powers that can force your Cabinet! to anything like vigorous prosecution of policy-will interfere. There is one gleam, that this young general summoned, it may be, to supply the place of the general-in-chief-General 
McClellan-(loud cheers)-may possess the military vigor that will carry us beyond this danger. There may be another, whose name is dear to the people-I mean Fremont. (Cheers.) With Lane on his right and Montgomery on his left, he may pass down the Valley of the Mississippi, and may launch a thunderbolt to announce to the Government that he has freed the slaves of the South-West. (Continued cheering.) Or it may be that the people will take it out of the Government's hands, and deal with it in its own way.
It lies with the masses whether this war is to be made anything but the assertion of empire. The South has cut her own throat. She has gone into the swine-(laughter)-and is rushing down into the sea. (Renewed laughter and applause.) She has consummated her own suicide. But, assembled here as we are to-day-on the anniversary of such a birthday-we remember his deep interest in democracy itself. How proudly he counted always the millions of his countrymen! how grandly he predicted their future! To-day, therefore, we may well ask for such vigor of purpose as will save the empire unbroken, and true to its normal idea, Freedom-as will allow the masses to carry out their purpose, hold all North America, and consecrate it to equal liberty. If the press is silent, where arc our Senators? Where are our Republican leaders? Are there no gatherings of Northern men, that Washington may yet know it? There is a better thing that a Senator can do than drill a brigade. He can instruct a Commonwealth. He can teach the North. You should demand this of him. These leaders ought to speak to the millions. Would to God we had one man willing to take an ounce of responsibility! who would speak to twenty millions of the North, and guide them through this crisis!
What made Stephen A. Douglas wield such a power over the people? It was the pluck which he displayed. They were glad to see a man once risk an opinion, and not stop to cipher it out on the slate. We want a Curtius who will leap into the chasm-we want one who will look down from his height of leadership, and see that the people receive no injury-to carry to the President the wishes of the people; and this work must be done in the next three months. (Loud applause.)

BIRTH-DAT OF THEODORE PARKER.
The Birth-Day of THEODORE PARKER was commemorated 
at Allston Hall, in this city, on Friday evening last, by the Fraternity Association, "and a numerous and choice gathering of the friends of that much lamented champion of mental independence, free inquiry, universal progress, and impartial liberty. The platform presented an embankment of the choicest plants and flowers, profusely contributed and tastefully arranged, as if in grateful remembrance of his lively appreciation of those wonderful specimens of the Divine workmanship in creation. The exercises consisted in singing Mr. Parker's favorite hymn, While thee I seek, protecting Power,"-the reading of a prayer made by him at Music Hall seven years ago, and written down at the time by a member of the Society, with some brief appropriate prefatory remarks 
by John R. Manley, Esq.-and speeches by Dr. Wellington, Wendell Phillips, Esq., Rev. William R. Alger, Charles H. Brainerd, Esq. William Lloyd Garrison, and Charles W. Slack, Esq. These, (excepting Mr. Phillips's, which had special reference to the present state of our national affairs and the purposeless action of the Cabinet, and which we give in
<c06>
another column as reported expressly for the Pine and Palm) were mainly devoted to grateful tribute to the memory of the deceased, feelingly and eloquently expressed, and to the recital of interesting personal reminiscences. Those 
charming singers, John W. Hutchinson and family, were present, and sang in their usual spirited and effective style. An excellent overwritten by Frank B. Sanborn, Esq., of Concord, was also sung. Such was the interest of the meeting, that the proceedings did not terminate till near midnight. It will be an occasion long to be remembered with pleasure and profit. We regret that we have not a phonographic report of all that was said and done to lay before our readers.

THE CASE OF ARTHUR ROBINS.
CINCINNATI, Ohio, August 20, 1861. 
When I addressed a letter to you from New Orleans in November last, the people of that city were in the midst of a great excitement. The irrepressible conflict" was then progressing in a satisfactory manner. About the middle of November, the conspirators and their dupes held a meeting in Armory Hall. An object of that meeting was to denounce Abolitionists residing in the city. Your correspondent received a full share of abuse, and the excitement against him in that crowded hall was intense. An employ in the post-office brought to the meeting copies of the Liberator, addressed to me, and extracts from the paper were read, much to the edification of the hearers, I hope. Imagine the excitement which existed as the speaker read paragraph headed, The Constitution of the United States is a covenant with death, and an agreement 
with hell." Such wholesome truths were never before or since, I imagine, read in a public meeting at New Orleans. Several persons were appointed, on this occasion, to inquire into my case and advise proper action. I was closely watched: the chivalry going so fur as to introduce spies into my house, concealing themselves at night between the roof and ceiling, peeping through a hole made for the purpose of watching my actions at home. To what depths of meanness does not slavery reduce men! Finally on November 29th, I was arrested by two or three of the Mayor's police, assisted by some of the vigilantes, and brought before his honor." The Picayune, of the same date, contained the following:-
"MORE ABOLITION EXCITEMENT. This morning, Arthur Robinson, a man of genteel appearance and education, was arrested by Corporal Dean and the Mayor's special officer, T. H. Dryden. at the request of two citizens, and brought to the Mayor's office on the charge of entertaining Abolitionist sentiments and expressing the same in public.
The accused is a native of Ireland, and came to the United States in 1854. He remained in New York until 1856, and has since been living in this city. He stated to the Mayor that he was decidedly adverse to slavery, and wanted to see it abolished at as early a day as practicable, by lawful means; that he did not contemplate anything wrong, but he could not help giving utterance to his feelings. In reply to the Mayor's questions, he acknowledged that he had conversed on the subject with free negroes, but would not state positively whether or not he had spoken to slaves.
The Mayor committed him for further examination before the Recorder."
The reporter erred in stating that I had been in New Orleans only from 1856. During the eleven years and upwards I have spent in the United States, ten have been spent in four different slave States, and in them I imbibed anti-slavery opinions, and became rooted and grounded in abolitionism. During my imprisonment of nearly four months, I experienced what I had previously witnessed, that the tender mercies of slaveholders is cruelty.
A few individuals, natives of the South, and zealous advocates of the rebellion, were faithful to their professions of friendship for me. One, Thos. C. Campbell, is now in the rebel army in Virginia; he visited me in prison, and otherwise rendered important services, notwithstanding the warnings he received. Another, Alfred Bourge, a Creole of New Orleans, went so far as to be on hand at the Recorder's (or committing magistrate's) Court, with friends, to assist in protecting me from the mob. I was not, however, brought out of prison on that occasion; threats of lynching having been freely made, and of the crowd assembled around the Recorder's office on the occasion, many were bent on mischief.
The Grand Jury, however, took the case out of the Recorder's hands, and indicted me, finding a true bill," comprising five counts,-1. Using incendiary language; 2. Bringing into the State incendiary" newspapers (referring principally to two copies of the Liberator received by me); 3. Bringing into the State a scrap-book of an incendiary character-(it contained several anti-slavery extracts, some of which, taken from the Liberator, were laudatory of John Brown; the puritanical character of the compiler, as exhibited by the extracts, was also very distasteful to the authorities); 4. Bringing into the State a copy of Barnes's Scriptural Views of Slavery." The searching of my house, by the vigilantes, and consent of the Mayor, resulted in obtaining these books, though several other publications, of an anti-slavery and a pro-slavery character, were passed by. The penalties attached to these counts is-imprisonment, with hard labor, from five to twenty-one years, or hanging That infamous enactment, the Black Code" of Louisiana, was passed by the Legislature of that State in 1832, at a period of great alarm, resulting from rumors of a slave insurrection in the vicinity of Donaldsonville, near New Orleans, where the Legislature were sitting. The penalties attached to violations of its provisions are very unequal,-one year's imprisonment or death, at the option of the judge, in some cases. Last winter, a free colored man was convicted under this act, of using incendiary" language in the presence of slaves, and sentenced to twenty-one years' imprisonment.
I was finally liberated without a trial. To this fortunate escape I am indebted to the efforts of friends. The fact of my being a Free-mason proved of great service to me with a few influential individuals,-although the body of Tree-masons in New Orleans are just as willing to hang one of their number who is denounced as an Abolitionist, as coffee-house keepers would one of their class. The result of my observations, in this connection, is, that slaveholders, everywhere, are incapable of respect to obligations, unless the protection of their accursed system is involved. Said a physician named Hunter to me, while in prison, If you were my brother, I would assist in hanging you." He was about fifty years of age. He spoke without manifesting any excitement, and meant what he said. If the influence of slaveholding will not make bad men worse, nothing can.
I may be indebted solely to the interference of the British Government for my release. On the 23d of February, Mr. Charles Tottenham, member of Parliament for 
New Ross, Ireland, (in which town I served my apprenticeship,) called at the foreign office, London, with reference to my case, and on the of March following I was liberated,-just time enough for a communication from the foreign office to be available in my case. William Mure, the Consul in New Orleans, declined interfering in my behalf, although he knew I was a British subject: alleging that the whole squad would be down upon us," if he should.
Shortly after my arrival in this city, I addressed my complaint to Lord Lyons, demanding damages to the extent of $5,000, to which the following reply was returned:-
"BRITISH LEGATION,WASHINGTON-, D.C.,
April 8th, 1861.
SIR,-I have received your letter of the 4th instant. Your case has already been brought to the notice of her Majesty's Government. I will, nevertheless, forward 
a copy of your letter without delay to her Majesty's principal for foreign affairs. In doing so, however, I shall feel it my duty to observe to his lordship that I have reason to believe that you have not been correctly informed with regard to the conduct and motives of her Majesty's Consul at New Orleans.
I am, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
MR. ARTHUR ROBINSON."
Having waited a reasonable time to hear further of 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the matter from the Minister at Washington, I addressed him another letter, and received the following reply from him:-
"BRITISH LEGATION, WASHINGTON, D. C.,
July 23d, 1861.}
SIR,-In answer to your letter of the 16th instant, I have to say that I forwarded to her Majesty's Government a copy of your letter of the 4th April last; that I have not received any instruction to make to you a communication on the subject to which it related; and that I do not expect to receive any such instruction.
I am sir, your obedient, humble servant,
LYONS.

MR. ARTHER ROBINSON, Cincinnati, Ohio."
Thus the matter rests at present.
ARTHUR ROBINSON.
SPEECH OF WILLIAM P. POWELL,
At the Celebration of British West India Emancipation, at New Bedford, August 1st, 1861.
MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
It would be superfluous to say anything in addition to what has been already said by those who have preceded me, in admiration of British West India Emancipation. The act of the British Parliament which proclaimed the boon of freedom to 800,000 slaves was one of long-withheld justice, and not an experiment. It was the right of the enslaved, and not a privilege. I was the duly of the imperial government, and not one of magnanimity. What a contrast this stupendous iniquity presents in this nineteenth century of the world's redemption! Two hundred and forty-two years ago, England joined hands with Spain, Portugal, France, Holland, Denmark and all civilized Europe,- Russia excepted,-and, in the name of a crucified Jesus, robbed Africa of 20,000,000 of her children. Less than one hundred years ago, as a nation that had grievously sinned before high heaven and the world's humanity, England humbled herself, as it were in sackcloth and ashes, and abolished the infamous African slave trade. Twenty-seven years ago, in order to make her "repentance not to be repented of" doubly sure, England, at a sacrifice of $100,000,000, set another example worthy to be imitated by our most guilty country, which adds another bright page in the imperishable book of fame, preeminently glorious, by emancipating 800,000 British West India slaves.
Sir, this act of British national repentance, without bloodshed, is unparalleled in the world's history. It has renovated, given a new impulse, and opened wide the floodgates of England's commercial greatness all over the world, beyond the calculation of the most astute political economist. It has reconstructed, on a permanent basis, the free industry of that little circumscribed gem of the ocean, upon whose imperial dominion the sun never sets. The glory of England, the only safe asylum of the oppressed of every nation, (Africa not excepted,) whose proud flag has floated over the pinnacle of the temple of fame, and withstood the surging waves of time for more than a thousand years, grows higher and brighter in the glorious sunlight of her progressive free institutions. What has made that speck of earth, that sea-girt isle, great, glorious, and free, and secured for her the constant wonder and admiration of the whole world? I answer, her free men, free labor, free thought, free speech, free press-her free Constitution, and her free Christian civilization. Sir, England's success, prosperity, and indomitable prowess, need no encomiums from your humble speaker. I have seen it in her thousand stupendous manufactories, and smoke-chimneys lowering up to the heavens, belching forth their lurid light at midnight as signals, remunerating free industry. I have seen her millions of free operatives, agriculturists, mechanics and artisans, (aliases, "greasy mechanics, small-fisted farmers, and mud-sills," so to speak in South Carolina parlance,) on their holiday excursions, dressed in English broadcloths, calicoes, satins and silks. It is seen in her mercantile marine service, with tens of thousands of ships and millions of mariners. It is seen in her mammoth floating batteries of wood and iron, part propelled by steam, and manned by tens of thousands of brave tars. It is seen in hundreds of thousands of invincible soldiers and volunteer corps, who dare to do and die in defence of their country's honor. All, all speak out in thunder tones the irresistible genius of British freedom.
As with individuals, so with nations; national prosperity is always sure to follow sincere, humble repentance. National greatness is always characteristic of a righteous civil government Hence, "righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily, and thy righteousness shall go before thee. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in. And I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." Thus we see Great Britain, taking advantage of God's promises, and wholly relying upon his sure mercies, is now reaping the golden fruits of a nation's obedience to God.
"Send the glad tidings o'er the sea-
His chains are broke, the slave is free!
Britannia justice, wealth and might,
Have gained the negro's long-lost right!
His chains are broke, the slave is free-
This is the negro's jubilee."
If, sir, we place our hand upon the magnetic telegraph, so to speak, we feel the pulsations of the suffering heart of classic Italy at every vibration. Another touch, and the electric current sends a thrill of joy throughout the civilized world;-Italy is free! We again manipulate, and the answer comes back that 40,000,000 Russian serfs, who for centuries lay crushed under the hoof of despotism, are now by God's blessing redeemed and disenthralled. Hungary, and in fact all Europe, are beginning to show unmistakable symptoms of emancipation from the ultra-monetarisms of a rotten and an effete mediaeval age. Every where on the American continent, civil and religious liberty obtains, except in these disunited States. Even in Brazil, where negro slavery exists, (but soon to be abolished, if not neutralized by our "manifest destiny" slavery-propagandists,) there I have seen no invidious religious distinctions made on account of color or condition. There I have seen at the altar the unbleached African, celebrating high mass, surrounded by white priests, serving as acolytes. There, too, I have seen master and slave, white and black, rich and poor, lazaroni and Mary Magdalenes, all kneeling down, side by side, doing penance-worshipping at the same altar-eating and drinking the transubstantiated emblems of a crucified Jesus. There I have seen the judicial and civil officers of government, navy and army, composed of white and black free men. There the slave can have his value appraised by government, and redeem himself. It is the same custom in the Spanish and Portuguese possessions.
But how stands the record in our own unfortunate distracted country? Alas! tell it not in heathen lands, publish it not in the highway of the world's civilization, that Cotton is still king-the lords of the lash are still suffered to live as a terrible power! Sir, it is for this purpose we arc here to-day-to plead the cause of 4,000,000 American negro slaves, because we believe that liberty, in its broadest signification, is the birthright of all mankind; because "right is of no sect, truth of no color, God is the father of us all, and all we are brethren"; because, in the history of the world's progress, the time has passed away when men shall, at the behest of ruthless despots and of sickly sentimentalists, suppress their free "thoughts that breathe and words that burn," and speak with bated breath and whispering tones against this iniquitous, gigantic, atrocious system of all villainies; because we would not be faithful to our own convictions of duty, if we did not bear a faithful, consistent testimony against its enormities and further continuance, because we are utterly and forever opposed to the unholy, unchristian principles upon which this vile system is founded and upheld; and because, on the broad ground of our common humanity, we can do no less
<c02>
than "cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show this nation her sins."
What is American slavery? It is a system of untold wrongs-a violation of every moral principle, of truth and justice, mercy and love, purity and honesty, and of social, civil, and religious liberty. The Rev. Dr. Breckinridge, more than twenty years ago, when not under the influence of a pro-slavery clerical anodyne, also asks:-
"What, then, is slavery? for the question relates to the action of certain principles on it, and to its probable and proper results; what is slavery as it exists among us? We reply, it is that condition enforced by the laws of one half of the States of this Confederacy, in which one portion of the community, called masters, is allowed such power over another portion called slaves; as
"1. To deprive them of the entire earnings of their own labor, except only so much as is necessary to continue labor itself, by continuing healthful existence, thus committing CLEAR ROBBERY.
"2. To reduce them to the necessity of UNIVERSAL CONCUBINAGE, by denying to them the civil rights of marriage; thus breaking up the dearest relations of life, and encouraging UNIVERSAL PROSTITUTION.
"3. To deprive them of the means and opportunities of moral and intellectual culture, in many States making it a high penal offence to teach them to read; perpetuating whatever of evil there is that proceeds from ignorance.
"4. To set up between parents and their children an authority higher than the impulse of nature and the laws of God; which breaks up the authority of the father over his own offspring, and, at pleasure, separates the mother at a return less distance from her child; thus abrogating the clearest law of nature; thus outraging all decency and justice, and degrading and oppressing thousands upon thousands of beings, created like themselves, in the image of the most high God! This is slavery as it is daily exhibited in every slave State."
Such is American slavery in its mildest form, to say nothing of its barbarism and monstrous cruelties, as it existed more than twenty years ago, without one redeeming trait in its character in the year of grace 1861.
And here, Sir, I beg leave to digress. Certain living philosophers, in order to justify the enslavement of our race-for instance, Professor Agassiz-have even gone so far as to advocate the plurality of the races, and contend that there is an insuperable geological, geographical, and ethnological barrier between the Anglo-Saxon and African race. Professor Grant, (said to be an Englishman,) according to his unsupported theory and bare assertions, insists that we are but one remove from the ourang-outang. Iconoclast, the notorious disputant as to the authenticity of the Mosaic account of the creation of the world, contends that it is impossible the various types of mankind could have been produced by one pair, and that we, together with all creation, are the spontaneous growth of-come-by-chance. The Hon. John Randolph, of South Carolina, in his speech at the convention to a frame a Constitution for struggling Kansas, now a free State, delivers himself of this disgusting philippic against our prostrate race, as follows:-
"MR. PRESIDENT,-What does the gentleman mean by talking about the traffic in human flesh? Does he (Henderson) think that niggers are human, that they are flesh and blood like ourselves? Why, if John Randolph believed that niggers were human, no matter in however slight a degree, this Convention would not find John Randolph on the floor of the hall advocating slavery. No! if he thought that niggers were human flesh and blood, possessed of human feelings, affections and thoughts, having an immortal soul, John Randolph would be an Abolitionist. What! buy and sell our own flesh and blood! Trade in human souls! No! no! He believed in no such sickly stuff as that; and for gentlemen affecting to hold that slavery was abstractly right, and who put themselves forward as advocates of Southern rights, to talk about the' traffic in human flesh and blood,' was simply balderdash. He didn't believe niggers to be human any more than a horse or a dog. If he did, he should advocate their right to freedom.
"A nigger, be held, was an animal-a cross between the baboon and the man; and he could prove his doctrine by chapter and verse, and by the niggers themselves. Did they look like white men? Was not their hair woolly, lips thick, nose flat, skull thick-and couldn't any anatomist tell the bones of a nigger from those of any human beings? He held that niggers were animals, but little more intelligent than a dog, and but one remove from the baboon, and he hoped gentlemen would not talk such nonsense as 'the traffic in human flesh disgracing our fair soil' again. He should vote against the amendment, because he did not want nigger-traders to have the opportunity to bring here all the vicious and diseased niggers with which the South was overrun."
Such, sir, are a few of the many disgusting, unscientific subterfuges resorted to in order to transform God's image, cut out in ebony, into four-footed beasts. On the contrary, in his scientific thesis, entitled 'Anthropomorphous of Animals," read at the opening of St. George's Hall in Liverpool, September 18th, 1854, Professor Owen asks this significant question: "Who knows but that the Anglo-Saxon and Chimpanzee are second cousins?" Also, Charles Dickens, describing the famous Gorilla, (now said to be extinct,) in his inimitable Once-a-Week, calls them our near relations. Well, sir, if we arc to believe these savans, then the link is complete: we are not only their cousins germain, but bone of their bone, and flesh of their flesh. It is difficult, however, to reconcile these various opinions, even with that of common sense, common honesty, and common decency, to say nothing of Holy Writ, whose inspiration explicitly declares that "God hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell upon the face of the whole earth." Upon this rock of truth we take our stand, and claim for our race the undivided and inseparable identity of the whole human family.
But why should we waste time to disprove the thousand-and-one miserable subterfuges of an already discomforted foe? The hand-writing of God's retributive judgment, in the present exigencies of the country, is inscribed in letters of blood on the walls of our slaveholding republican edifice, "Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin." The destruction of negro slavery, which has grown with the nation's growth, and strengthened with its strength, and interwoven itself into all this wicked nation's activities, must be adjudicated by God's instrumentalities, "Gog" North, and "Magog" South. And may God defend the right!
A word or two as to the African Colonization Society, with its malignant free negro hate-a Society that never even so much as pretended to ameliorate the condition of the slave, but, if anything, rendered his emancipation entirely beyond the hope of redemption. For example-from 1816 up to 1861, a period of forty-five years, only 5,770 slaves have been colonized to Liberia, within a fraction of just two weeks of this year's increase; and less than two and a half slaves, who have been emancipated per week, for the last forty-five years, under the auspices of this slow-go-motive Society, whose computed receipts from all sources for the same period cannot be less than $3,600,000. Now, sir, let us calculate the number of slaves who have escaped into British North America at 45,000, into the Free States 95,000, into the West Indies 5,000, and into Europe 5,000-being a total of 150,000, averaging sixty-four and a fraction of stupid, improvident negro slaves who have escaped every week since 1816, without the aid of organized benevolence, and who could not await the slow process to transport them to the burning sands of Africa.
Again, in order to accommodate rigid compensations, computing the number of slaves in 1816 to be 1,500,000, and taking their value, per capita, the same then as the 800,000 British West India slaves in 1834-say one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000)-it would give us one hundred and eighty million, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($180,750,000). Now, if the sum of three million, six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000), which the Colonization Society expended in colonizing 5,770 slaves during a period of forty-five years, had been hypothecated in 1816, as an emancipation fund-the African and inter-State slave trade prohibited by stringent laws-and all the slaves then living, and born on or after that date declared free, the adults in ten years, their children at twenty-seven years of age, and in the mean time educated, the principal, three million, six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000), and compound interest doubling itself every eleven years, would amount to the enormous sum of two hundred and thirty million, four hundred thousand dollars ($230,400,000). Deducting
<c03>
therefrom one hundred and eighty million, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars, ($180,750,000,) the value of 1,500,000 slaves in 1816, would leave a clear balance in the national coffers of forty-nine million, six hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($49,650,000) in 1871, with the curse of slavery entirely abolished.
The way of duty is always the way of safety. These calculations being true, what is the true state of the question as it presents itself this day to the gaze of the civilized world? Why, instead of our model Republic marching on the high road of national prosperity, liberty and happiness, like the mother country,-oh! what a chapter is written in horrible letters of blood,-disintegration, disunion, revolution, and grim visages internecine war! And for what object? Is it "to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves"? This war, as now maintained by the confederate rebel traitors, is carried on, and thus far with partial success, for the purpose of founding a new slaveholding government. It is not a war for personal liberty. It is not a war to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. But it is a war-a shameful, outrageous war, to perpetuate the damnable institution of concubine, cradle-robbing, and women-whipping-a war to obliterate from the statute-books of every nominally free State, all laws granting our people the least protection and political rights-a war to reestablish the accursed African slave-trade! What say the traitors at Montgomery?
"Though last, not least, the new Constitution has put at rest forever all the agitating questions relating to our peculiar institutions-African slavery, as it exists among us, is the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization. This was the immediate cause of the lute rupture, and of the present revolution. Jefferson, in his forecast, had anticipated this as the rock upon which the old Union would split. He was right. What was conjecture with him is now a realized fact. But whether he fully comprehended the great truth upon which, that rock stood, and stands, may be doubted. The prevailing ideas entertained by him, and most of the leading statesmen at the time of the formation of the old Constitution, were that the enslavement of the African race was in violation of the laws of nature: that it was wrong in principle, socially, morally and politically. It was an evil they knew not well how to deal with; but the general opinion of the men of that day was, that somehow or other, in the order of Providence, the institution would be evanescent, and pass away. * * * Those ideas, however, were fundamentally wrong. They rested upon the assumption of the equality of races. This was an error. It was a sandy foundation, and the idea of a government built upon it, when the storm came, and wind blew, it fell.
Our new government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundations are, laid, its corner-stone rests, on the great truth that the negro is NOT equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition. This, our new government, is the FIRST in the history of the world based upon this great philosophical and moral truth.
* * * * * * * * *
The negro, by nature or the curse of Canaan, is fitted for the condition which he occupies in our system. The architect, in the construction of a building, lays the foundation with the proper material-the granite-then comes the brick or the marble. The substratum of our society is made of the material by nature best fitted for it, and by experience we know it is best, not only for the superior but the inferior race, that it should be so. It is, indeed, in conformity with the Creator. It is not for us to inquire into the wisdom of his ordinances or to question them. * * *
The great objects of humanity are best attained when conformed to his laws and decrees in the formation of governments, as well as in all things else. Our Confederacy is founded on principles in strict conformity with these laws. THIS STONE WHICH WAS REJECTED BY THE BUILDERS IS BECOME THE CHIEF STONE OF THE CORNER OF OUR NEW EDIFICE."
But what will the North do? Will the government prosecute this war of subjugation, and bring the rebel States,-slavery and all,-back to their allegiance? Ah! sir, if that is the sole aim of the government of President Lincoln and the federal army, they will be surely and shamefully beaten. This war, disguise it as they may, is virtually nothing more nor less than perpetual slavery against universal freedom, and to this end the free States will have to come. If the North should lose this last modern Archimedean fever, liberty for all God's children, every retrograde step that they may take will be followed by consequences too vast, too momentous to be grasped at by any finite being.
Never was there a greater opportunity for the American nation to put an everlasting end to negro, slavery than now-never a greater opportunity for Northern men to make inquisition for the thousand and one Southern outrages committed upon thousands of defenceless Northern men and women, in open violation of constitutional guaranties, than now. I do not counsel bloody revenge for social, commercial and political wrongs. By no means; but I do counsel the people of the free States to instantly retaliate upon Southern aggression, by forever withholding their support to keep alive any longer the cancerous tumor of negro slavery, now preying upon the vitals of the nation's body politic.
Without going into detail, I propose that Congress, at its next session, instantly abolish slavery by proclamation, without compensation, in all the rebel States, which will put an end to the war, and their value confiscated to defray the expenses of the war-repeal the Fugitive Slave Law-form a new treaty with Great Britain, to effectually break up the African slave-trade-abolish slavery in Maryland and Virginia by compensation, and thereby make the capital free territory, as it should have been at the foundation of the government.
In fact, sir, to make the whole scheme short and comprehensive, let the national and State governments go to work, and reconstruct a righteous civil government; then shall we exclaim, in the language of the Psalmist, "God be merciful unto us, and bless us, and show the light of thy countenance, and be merciful unto us; that thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God; yea, let all the people praise thee. O let the nations rejoice, and be glad; for thou shall judge the folk righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Let the people praise thee. Then shall the earth bring forth her increase, and God, our own God, shall give us his blessing. God shall bless us, and all the ends of the world fear him."
CORRECTION OF"J. W." 
NEW BEDFORD, Aug. 27, 1861.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-Your correspondent "J.W.," in his letter published in the Liberator of Aug. 23d, professes to quote from an extract from a sermon of mine published in the Liberator of August 2d; but, evidently attempting to quote from memory, he changes my language, and gives an entirely incorrect representation of my idea. He quotes me as saying, (at least so it is printed,)"it is not possible, nor desirable, to fix any details of any scheme of emancipation, because we want that the scheme should be fixed by the South itself." On turning to the extract in question, I find it correctly printed as I wrote, "it is not possible, nor desirable, perhaps, to fix at this time the details of any scheme of emancipation, because we want, if possible, that the scheme should be fixed in the South itself." I have only italicized certain words, not done in the original, in order to note the difference. Again "J.W." says, "If, as Mr. Potter says, the South only can justly emancipate," &c. So far from saying anything like this, I attempted to show in the sermon, as intimated at the beginning of the published extract, that it is the duty of the Federal Government, both on grounds of moral and of constitutional law, now that slavery has developed itself to its legitimate issue of war, to take measures for abolishing it forever; and the sentence quoted above, with regard to schemes of emancipation, was continued thus: "the government only taking the ground that emancipation there must be, but willing to cooperate with the South, or any part of the South, in determining the best way to bring it about."
"J. W." quotes me again as saying, "The same humanity that bids us give freedom to the slave, bids us do so without anarchy and violence, but with its
<c04>
proper blessings of order, prosperity, and peace." What I actually said, and what you printed, was, "The same humanity that bids us give freedom to the slave, bids us also provide that freedom be given to him, not with anarchy and violence, but with its proper blessings of order, and prosperity, and peace,"- and this was said, as the context shows, not as bearing on the right of the General Government to emancipate the slaves, but on its duty to care for and protect them against anarchy and violence after it has decreed their emancipation.
These convictions doubtless seem of more importance to me than they will to any one else; but, as I do not agree with "J.W's" position, I cannot claim the credit of being used for its support.
Very truly yours,
W. J. POTTER.

MEETING OF THE COLORED EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTE.
A large and respectable body of the colored citizens of Toronto, Canada West, assembled on Monday evening, August 12th, in the Sayer Street Church, on the occasion of the monthly meeting of the Association which bears the above title, and which was established about two years ago. After prayer by Rev. N. H. Turpin, and the usual business of the Society,
Mr. W. J. WATKINS, who was present by invitation, proceeded to address them upon the duties and responsibilities of colored men. These he presented in a strong and forcible manner. He was not present, the lecturer remarked, to deal in intangible abstractions, but concrete realities. One reason why the colored people of the United States and of the Canada's occupied no higher position than at present is, said he, because they do not fully realize and appreciate the responsibilities which rest upon them, and which must be discharged by them, if at all. We have been more intent upon projecting new theories than in reducing old ones to practice. A theory may be as bright and as beautiful as the wing of an archangel, but it will be of but little advantage to the world unless it is made to sweep the circle of human activities. It must be crystallized into practical life. It does no good to form good societies, and there let the professed object of their formation evaporate into windy speeches and flaming resolutions and picnic excursions. Hannibal said to his army when the battle trembled to begin, "It is not words that are now wanted, but action." His men leaped into battle, and by united, determined action routed the enemy. Let this be our motto, said Mr. Watkins, if we would rise superior to the crushing circumstances which affect us. The startling events which crimson the wing of the present hour bid us "awake, arise, or be forever fallen!" Our long-tried friends, the Abolitionists, can no more act for us and do our duty, than they can breathe and eat and die for us. We must act well our part by the assumption and performance, to the best of our ability, of all the duties and responsibilities of fully developed manhood. Too long already have we slumbered. What! sleep amid the thunder and smoke of battle, when the events of the next hour may seal our destiny? Are we so infatuated, when white men are sacrificing their earthly all? The man among us who can sleep now, would sleep, if possible, amid the thrilling clangor of the resurrection trumpet. Recently, all Europe shook beneath the majestic tread of Garibaldi. He comes across the ocean to fling his ponderous weight against the Bastile of American despotism. Let not our inertia, our indifference to the tragic realities of the hour fill his throbbing heart with sorrow, and chill his noble nature with the apathy of despair.
After presenting the claims of the Educational Association, the lecturer alluded to the fact that many of the colored people of the United States, and some in the Canadas, are seriously contemplating emigration to Hayti. He had a word to say on this subject. It is useless to emigrate anywhere until we emigrate from the gross faults which have characterized us. Hayti needs men of the right stamp-those who feel the dignity of manhood, and act accordingly. Those who go thither should not be deceived. Hayti wants no one who will be an incubus upon for energies. Those who, in the States or in the Canadas, have been like driftwood washed down the stream, will be a valuable acquisition nowhere, and it is well for the struggling and noble people of Hayti if they remain where they are. Some are going there to be generals, judges, and legislators; some to marry their daughters to "Haytian noblemen." Mira bile dictu! But all such, if they go, will be, and ought to be, disappointed. Let solid men, who will help Hayti as well as themselves, go thither to develop the resources of the country, and thus conduce to its prosperity, and the government and the people will receive them with open arms. Remember that we go there to continue the warfare against that monstrous abomination, American slavery-not to get rid of the conflict. The interests of Hayti, and of colored America, cannot be dissociated. We go to help to promote those interests, and therefore help the millions of our race who will continue in the United States until Gabriel shall sing the requiem of the world's departed spirit. The speaker still held to the views he had always advocated concerning the expatriation of the race. It could not be effected. President Geffrard did not contemplate it. We remain, then, on this continent in close proximity with our oppressed brethren, who may yet summon us from the land of the pine and palm, to help strike down the haughty Assyrian. Onward, then, and upward! Never dream of peace until the last slave shall clank the last chain, and from among brutes and creeping things leap upon the broad and enduring platform of humanity, and swell the grand hallelujah of redeemed millions!
A vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Watkins for his instructive and able lecture, and the meeting adjourned.

THE FABIAN POLICY.
In reply to the frequently expressed desire to have the rebellion speedily crushed by vigorous measures, it has been urged that the Fabian policy has been adopted, and an Anaconda-like net was to be spread all around the rebels, and crush them all at once. Another reply is that Gen. Scott intends to achieve a bloodless victory by tiring, starving, and exhausting them, without much loss of life on either side. But we doubt whether any one knows his policy. No crushing has been effected, and that alleged plan has almost faded from popular memory; and a constant loss of life has been going on, all the time, with both sides.
As to the first, it was an ancient policy in an ancient war between two nations. Fabius was a Roman, made a general to fight Carthaginian Hannibal. Ours is a rebellion, or a demand for authorized divorce. When Gen. Washington practised the Fabian policy, his circumstances compelled him to it. His army was by no means well equipped in all the stages of the struggle. Besides, he was pronounced a rebel, and Britain was the mother government. Now, Davis is the rebel, and the United States are the mother. If the Federal forces are pursuing this policy, the rebels are playing at the same game. Our position is different from that of Washington when he strove for independence. And if the Fabian policy was adapted to his condition, it does not follow that it applies to ours. With Fabius Maximums it might have been proper, and with Gen. Washington. It may also be good for Davis, But, it strikes us that if slow work is the proper course for the success of a rebellion, quick work is the best course for its arrest. At any rate, they are acting on the defensive, and seem to be gaining ahead of us in skirmishes, stratagems, and battles. Unless some successful great and decisive achievement, or a series of successful battles, be won by us, the weight of evidence will be against us, discourage our men, injure the cause, and strengthen the rebellion.
Believing that neither Anaconda nor Fabius is the fixed policy of our experienced and wise General,-the circumspect Nestor of the battle-field,-and having full confidence in his skill, we must await the practical maturity of his well-weighed plans. Z.
<c05>
HON. HENRY WILSON. The Washington Star, of Tuesday, pays Senator Wilson of Massachusetts, the following well deserved compliment:-
"Senator Wilson deserves the thanks of the country for the manner in which he has discharged the duties of the chairmanship of the Senate's Military Committee, during the recently called session of Congress. Never before have they been so arduous. He has had devolved on him the task of arranging the details of and maturing nearly every bill bearing on the military service of the Government, which he has discharged with remarkable energy, perspicacity, tact and industry, to the entire satisfaction not only of the President, the Secretary of War and the Commander-in-chief, (with whom it has been necessary for him to be in constant communication with reference to them,) but also to the entire satisfaction of Congress; a rare achievement indeed. He has thus fairly already earned an enviable legislative reputation. Heretofore his position with the minority prevented his remarkable business talents, as thus evinced, from becoming known to his fellow Senators and the country at large."
COMBINED EFFORTS TO BREAK UP THE SLAVE TRADE. The U. S. Marshals of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Delaware, met on Thursday at the office of Marshal Murray, by invitation of the Secretary of the Interior, to confer upon the adoption of some plan to prevent the fitting-out of slavers in Northern ports. After a brief discussion, and a mutual exchange of views upon the subject, the Marshals from abroad accepted Marshal Murray's invitation to visit a lot of captured slavers in Atlantic Dock, Brooklyn, and learn what that famous style of craft looked like, so that they would know it again. The Marshal acted the part of a guide and instructor very successfully, and explained to his less informed brethren the numerous "dodges" of the business, and the resorts and habits of the persons engaged in it. To-day the party will take a look at the slaver captains and officers confined in the Tombs; and, at some subsequent day, will be treated to a sight of the haunts most frequented by that cunning class of fellows and their aiders and-abettors.-New York Journal of Commerce.
DANBURY, Ct., Aug. 24. At the raising of a peace flag at New Fairfield, to-day, about 400 were present. An attempt to run up the Stars and Stripes was successfully resisted, and resulted in a fight. Two peace men, named Wildman and Gorham, were seriously wounded, one, it is thought, fatally. Shovels, pickaxes, clubs and stones were freely used, but no firearms. There were but seventy Unionists present. The peace flag is flying. There is great excitement.
BRIDGEPORT, Ct., Aug. 24. A secession flag, under the name of a peace flag, was hoisted at Stepney this afternoon. A secession meeting was held, at which speeches were made by one Schnable, a broken down Pennsylvania politician, and others. Union men from here took the flag down, and tore it into five hundred pieces, and held a Union meeting on the ground.
The Farmer, (a secession newspaper) office, was gutted by volunteers to-night, in the presence of from 3000 to 5000 citizens. The windows were smashed, the type distributed in the street, and the presses destroyed.
Sunday, 25. In cleaning out The Farmer office, last night, a U. S. mail bag was found, filled with papers addressed to leading secessionists in Alabama, Georgia and other Southern States; also 200 billies. Some curious letters were also found, exposing the treason of politicians in Hartford and elsewhere. One of the editors of The Farmer has gone to New Haven, and threatens to issue his paper from the Register office to-morrow.
The troubles of the secession press increase rapidly. Yesterday, orders were received at the post-office forbidding the transmission of the Journal of Commerce, the Daily News, the Day-Book, and the Brooklyn Eagle through the mails of the United States. News dealers will not send them with other dailies, and the marshals seize them wherever found. The Alleghanian, a Western Virginia secession sheet, was extinguished on Thursday night, in revenge for an attack upon a meeting at which Gov. Thomas was speaking. The Bridgeport Farmer was utterly destroyed last night by a party of returned volunteers. This paper was the most abusive of any of its kind in the Northern States. The proceeding last night was witnessed by thousands of people, who did not think it worth while to interfere. The True American at Trenton, N. J., has succumbed to popular opinion and suspended publication, remarking that as it cannot be circulated, it might as well save the expense of printing. The press fever has also broken out in Wilmington, Del., where last night the Gazette office was beset by an excited crowd, in consequence of certain remarks about the Delaware soldiers.-N. Y. Tribune, 25th inst.
The <illegible> (New Jersey) Herald is one of the papers which sympathizes with secession, terming our army a "God forsaken abolition" horde, &c. The following notice from the two Sussex companies now in Virginia, show how the paper is appreciated:-
CLOUD'S MILLS, Va., August 8th.
J. J. McNALLY-Editor of New Jersey Herald: By the request, and in behalf of our respective companies, we ask you to send no more copies of your seditious sheet to our camp. While we have left our native State to sacrifice our comforts, and, if need be, our lives, for the Union which we love, we do not wish to be insulted by your paper, which comes weekly, filled with treason to our Government, and aid and comfort to the rebels seeking to destroy it.
H. P. COOK, Co. B., 2d Regiment.
H. S. LINN, Co. D., 3d Regiment.
SECESSION OUTRAGE. We learn from Mr. Delano, a conductor on the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad, that the passenger train was fired into when about four miles west of Palmyra. The Secessionists were under cover, and fired "at rest," yet, strange to say, though the impress of fifty-nine shots were left on the cars, no one was hurt!
When we consider that the train was loaded with women and children-oven with some Secessionists beyond doubt-the act is fiendish to the last degree. But, then, this is only a fair sample of the cowardly barbarism of these pro-slavery miscreants, to the perpetration of which they have been encouraged by a mistaken leniency.
Minister Pike, in his dispatch from the Hague, referring to the Bull Run affair, says that in his judgment this reverse will not especially prejudice our cause, or lead to adverse action in Europe. A public sentiment has gradually been developed on that side of the water in regard to our affairs, which is inclined to await a fair trial of the strength of the government without prejudging its ability to overcome its misfortune. "If," he remarks in conclusion," it shall be shown to the country that simply huddling masses of men together does not make an army, and shall develop some kind of defence for the judgment and wisdom of experienced men, and for those who have charge of affairs, then the disaster may prove to be wholesome experience, and not unmitigated calamity."
Intelligence from the other side of the Potomac shows that the rebels have drawn to Leesburg all their regular force from Charlestown, Winchester, and other points above, and concentrated them at Leesburg, where their army numbers from 11 to 12,000 men. Capt. Henderson's Home Guard alone remain in Jefferson county.
The rebels have taken to pieces at Martinsburg five locomotives belonging to the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and were to make the attempt yesterday to transport them to Strasburg, or some other point on the Manassas road.
JOHN BRIGHT UPON THE WAR. John Bright, in a recent speech at Rochdale, England, alluded to the war in this country, and, among other things, said:
"I say that the war, be it successful or not, be it Christian or not, be it wise or not, is a war to sustain the authority of a great nation; and that the people of England, if they are true to their own sympathies, to their own great act of 1834, to which reference has already been made, will have, no sympathy for those who wish to build up a great empire on the perpetual bondage of millions of their fellow-men." (Loud cheers.)
IMPORTANT NEWS FROM HAYTI. By the arrival of the brig Echo, we have dates from Port au Prince to the 5th inst. The Spanish difficulty has been amicably arranged, and all but one of the Spanish vessels had left the harbor.
The island was again quite tranquil, and commercial matters were generally quiet. The Haytien Government paid the Spaniards $200,000 for insulting their flag, but the boundary question was left open for future adjustment. The foreign merchants on the island came to the assistance of the government, and loaned them part of the money to pay the Spanish indemnity.
AWFUL SLAUGHTER IN CHINA. We learn from the late China papers, that the insurgents have taken an important city, called Sew-chang-yuen, four hundred mile's from Ningpo. At Chapoo, which place was also conquered, the carnage was awful, and those who escaped were obliged to hide themselves among the caves and rocks, many dying of privations and starvation.
It is said that there was a collision, recently, at Norfolk, between an Alabama and a Virginia regiment, growing out of the taunts of the former against the courage of the latter. Five or six were killed.
<c06>
The President, with the Secretary of State, attended Gen. McClellan's review of several brigades on the south side of the Potomac, a few days since. The perfection of the discipline, of the troops surpassed anything that has been seen in the military line in this country since the war of 1812. The volunteers have already become soldiers.
Gen. McClellan declares his perfect satisfaction with his army, and his army, the greatest ever seen on this continent, is equally satisfied with him.
Capt Judest, one of Gen. Sigel's skirmishers, wounded in the battle, reports that Sigel's attack on the rear of the rebels' camp was a complete surprise; that they were driven back toward Gen. Lyon's command in front with great slaughter, their dead being in heaps on the field; and for the first half hour Sigel did not lose a man. Subsequently, our troops were subjected to a murderous cross fire from a number of the enemy's cannon, throwing a perfect shower of shells and grape into our ranks.
After driving the enemy back about a mile and a half, Sigel drew off his force, and fell back on Springfield.
According to careful computation from the complete official reports, the St. Louis papers make the loss of Gen. Lyon's army in the Springfield fight 223 killed, 721 wounded, and 291 missing; nearly all the missing, however, have come in, so that the actual loss may be fixed at about 950. That the rebels lost at least double that number is entirely certain from their own dispatches and admissions.
The Baltimore Exchange publishes the following paragraph, which appears italicized:-"LYON is a dead cock in the pit this time, beyond all peradventure, having been shot in' the small of the back, while gloriously leading his column on to' defeat."
The Memphis Aralanche humanely says as" we would hang any one for preaching the damnable creed of lust and equality, so will we show no quarter to any prisoner, but all such shall die upon the gallows." The editor prefaces his comments by stating that he is "neither sanguinary nor blood-thirsty."
The Mobile News heads its intelligence from the North, "News from the Enemy's Country," and speaks of the Union troops as "Hessians."
A bold attempt was made by the secessionists, near Cumberland, Va., to capture Gov. Thomas, the Governor of Western Virginia. They placed heavy obstructions on the railroad track, to throw off the train, but the engineer boldly pushed on, threw aside the barricade, and left the would-be murderers howling with disappointment. To murder a whole train of passengers is a style of warfare peculiar to the chivalry of the Old Dominion.
A letter from Richmond, Va., says the city was filled with men and women from the more distant Southern States, hunting information of relatives, which they could not obtain. No report of the killed and wounded at Bull Run had been made up, nor was it likely that any ever would be. The greatest distress prevailed.
Among the several women recently taken under surveillance is Mrs. Greenhow, well known in fashionable circles. She, as well as others just arrested, is accused of giving aid and comfort to the rebels. The Provost Marshal's docket of such cases is not yet filled.
BANGOR, Me., August 25.-The Bangor Democrat Extra, a secession paper, was deposited in the Post Office on Friday night. The Postmaster notified the Department, and retains the papers until he receives orders. The Democrat was suppressed by the people a week or two since, and the office destroyed. The extra was printed out of the city, although purporting to be printed here.
PHILADELPHIA, August 25.-Wm. S. Johnston, nephew of the rebel General, was arrested at the depot, after purchasing a ticket for Louisville. His trunk contained a number of letters for the South.
Samuel E. Aiken, arrested as a Southern agent yesterday, is connected with Sloat, who is now engaged in Richmond altering arms for the rebels. His papers show his participation with the rebels. A coil of wire for a field telegraph was found among his baggage, and over $1000 in specie.
There are said to be nine hundred colored contrabands now in Fortress Monroe, of the following classes and value:-Able-bodied men, 300; old men, 30; women, 175; children, 395. Total 900. Value,$506,000.
Humphrey Marshal was asked in Louisville, recently, what he thought of Breckinridge. "He is the deadest man alive, except myself," responded Humphrey.
OUR AFFAIRS IN RUSSIA. Private letters from Minister Clay announce that in St. Petersburg, at Court, in Government circles, as well as in the public, the most ardent sympathy prevails with the Union, and against the slaveholders.
ANTHONY BURNS has just settled as pastor of the colored Baptist Church in St. Catharines, Canada West. Since his redemption from slavery, he has been preparing for present duties at Oberlin and Fairmount Institutions.
B. Rush Plumley, of Philadelphia, is one of Gen. Fremont's staff.
THE ONLY FREEDOM OF SPEECH, JUST NOW-The Speech of Freedom.
Galignani announces that both Mdlle. Scheller and her companion, Mdlle. Fossali, were burned to death by the recent terrible accident at the theatre in Stralsund.
Mrs. Broadhurst, a lady eminent in London select circles, was burned to death a short time since in her own drawing-room. Her hoops prevented succor.
London is ecstatic over the discovery of a new vegetable, which seems from a description to be across between a potato and an artichoke.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.-The exigencies of the cause having this year occasioned an earlier call for funds than usual, friends at home and abroad are entreated to advance and increase their subscriptions as far as practicable,-addressing them to WILLLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., Treas. Am. A. S. Society, Boston.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
Whenever more convenient, transmit to either of the following gentlemen, who are both financial officers of the Society:-J. M. MCKIM, Esq., North Tenth Street, Philadelphia; S. H. GAY, Esq., 5 Beekman Street, New York.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Mass. A. S. Society, will speak in Buxton Hall, in South Weare, N. H., on Sunday, Sept. 1st; and in that vicinity on the Monday and Tuesday evenings following.
MIDDLESEX A. S. SOCIETY.-A meeting of the Middlesex County A. S. Society will be held at Reading, Sunday, Sept. 13. Charlea L. Remond, E. H. Heywood and others will speak. The public are cordially invited.
SAMUEL BARRETT, President.
ANDREW WELLINGTON, Secretary.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 1, 1861. Both sexes are received as family or day pupils.
For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN.
West Newton, Aug. 15.

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and continue Fifteen weeks. For fall particulars, please address WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principal.
Milford, Mass., Aug. 6, 1861.

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle st., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Boston, Jan. 7. S. NEWELL.

JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street,
AN elaborate Work, entitled "Relation of the American Board of Commissioners to Slavery. By Charles K. Whipple,"-a volume of nearly 250 pages. In cloth, 37 cents-in paper covers, 25 cents.
Aug. 30. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
BE JUST, AND FEAR NOT.
Rebels against wrong, not right,
Did our brave old fathers fight
But the tyrant eyed their bondmen!
"Ha! ha"! ha!" said he,
"The game yon play on me
Your own subjects shall set free.
Be it in white hands or black,
I welcome every gun more."
And so be told every lack-
Land serf sod slave through Dunmore.
Then with a wrath and fear sublime
Shook the first men of that olden time;
Shocked were they, in their honest souls,
And kindled, as the blast kindles coals.
"Too tree, O king, but the truth
Is not true from thy mouth!
Shall this sin of ours at our heads be hurled
By the Satan who brought it into the world?
Who but be freights the slave ships?
Who but he cracks the slave whips?
"What we'd make better, he makes worse,
Grasps the coin, and leaves us the curse!
Thanks to thee for a worthy vow,
Greedy old George the blind,
We swear that our quarrel with thee now
Shall be as broad as all mankind."
Then the big, trustful eyes of Sambo,
Mild and bright as a pitch-pine flambeau,
Saw in Jefferson's face Hope's sun more
Than in the crafty old sconce of Dunmore.
"All right. If not to die in slavery fated,
I'll wait, master." And he waited.
Soon then, at Washington's godlike nod,
Drilling white and black men on Cambridge sod,
It was, one May day on Virginia's shore,
That a mason, full of Solomon's lore,
And just this much of wisdom more,
His plumb-level and trowel bore,
And there laid the first true foundation
For an upright, happy, human nation.
Rock-crystal that stone was, clear and flawless,
Showing that lawgivers arc not lawless,
But bound firmly, when they strike,
To hit all born men alike.
When the mother of States had laid that stone,
Joyfully met, under a July sun,
Her sitters kissed it and blessed it-every one.
"On such a rock we're independent."
And the swords leaped forth resplendent;
Bells set the air in ecstatic motion,
Like a frantic, storm-quaked ocean,
And, to make the hail real, tempest louder,
Every cellar's dirt was leached for powder.
Again the big, trustful eyes of Sambo,
Mild and bright as a. pine-knot flambean,
Saw in that just decree Hope's sun more
Than in the crafty words of Dunmore.
"All right. If not to die in slavery fated,
I'll wait, master." And he waited.
And be waited. And at first the chain
So slackened it scarce gave pain;
And ho helped with the tyrant's might to cope,
With his big, mild eyes all full of hope.
Ah! woe to tell it, not sic semper,
Not after the tyrant fell,
Not after the jubilee bell,
For the freed master took the tyrant's temper.
Tighter the links coiled round and round him,
As if an iron anaconda bound him,
Which broke-hounds flood by to hound him!
"Death to their bodies, hell to their souls, who see
Through that crystal rock my bondmen free."
So the mother of States spake, spite of her crest,
Spite of the true stone her sitters had blessed,
Stealthily aiming to knock the nation
Off hers and its own rock foundation.
Struck at thus, where doth the nation stand? 
Doth it honestly pay the old broken vow,
Planting its feet on the crystal base now-
Or timidly talk of "contraband,"
Bold black manhood's title from its Creator
Good, only if the white tyrant turn traitor,
Treat Bills of Right as pure figments,
Freedom chiefly a question of pigments,
Holding out to wicked States protection
'Gainst the most righteous of all insurrection?
One sledge-hammer blow from its puissant arm,
Doing a mortal ear, but no mortal harm,
Had left the slave's prison-house no lock.
That heavenly blow is not stricken,
But the blows of the red battle thicken,
And our sons, crying, "Boys, never falter,
Let us lay our young lives on Liberty's altar,"
Pass through the fire to Moloch!
Blest their pure souls, though, as they look from the skies,
But shame to the priests who order the sacrifice,
Shame and a curse to the power that does not say,
Before the battle is set in array,
"In the land we add these glorious graves to,
There shall be no slavery for men to be slaves to."
In the good God's name, I say, civilians,
(For ye know well enough by your statistical beverage,
How freedom shows far the blessedness average,-
How what's best for one is best for a thousand millions,)
Te do but murder on both sides in every battle,
Till ye proclaim our black brothers men, and not cattle.
Fighting for law, ye'll forever blunder it,
Till ye knock the traitors' lie from under it.
Spurn to hell, then, that claim satanic,
And our hearts shall know never a panic.
Boston, August, 1861. E. W.
We have received, (says the Boston Transcript,) the following noble, fervid, and patriotic- lyric for publication, from its author, Rev. JOHN PIERPONT. It proves that the -unwearied fire of genius still glows, undimmed by age, in the soul of an honored American poet, whose first production was published half a century ago. Mr. Piermont is 76 years old, and his poem has the "spirit of'76." As regards mere age, however, time practices on us a deception in regard to him, for his form seems to grow more erect, his gait more vigorous, his mind more vivid and creative, as he advances in years.
"E PLURIBUS UNUM"
I.
The harp of the minstrel with melody rings,
When the muses have taught him to touch and to tune it;
But though it may have a full octave of strings,
To both maker and minstrel the harp is a unit.
So the power that creates
Our republic of States,
Into harmony brings them at different dates;
And the thirteen or thirty, the Union once done,
Are E Pluribus Unum-of many made one.
II.
The science that weighs in her balance the spheres,
And has watched them since first the Chaldean began it,
Now and then, as she counts them and measures their years
Brings into our system and names a new planet.
Yet the old and new stars-
Venus, Neptune and Mars,
As they drive round the sun their invisible cars,
Whether faster or slower their races they run,
Are "E Pluribus Unum"-of many made one.
III.
Of that system of spheres, should but one fly the track,
Or with others conspire for a general dispersion,
By the great central orb they would all be brought back,
And held, each in her place, by a wholesome coercion.
Should one daughter of light
Be indulged in her flight,
They would all be engulphed by old Chaos and Night:
So must none of our sisters be suffered to run,
For, "E Pluribus Unum"-we all go if one.
IV.
Let the demon of discord our melody mar,
Or treason's red hand rend our Union asunder,
Break one string from our harp, or extinguish one star,
The whole system's ablaze with, lightning and thunder.
Let the discord be hushed!
Let the traitors be crashed,
Though "Legion" their name, all with, victory flushed!
For aye must our motto stand, fronting the sun;
"E Pluribus Unum"-Though many, we're ONE.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTER FROM O.S.MURRAY.
FOSTER'S CORSSINGS, Warren Co., O., July 7, 1861.
"Be not deceived"-Be not mocked."
BROTHER GARRISON: Two months ago, you thought me too "lugubrious." Well, I have been waiting, with all possible patience, and watching with all possible diligence and vigilance; and I have-been able to find nothing to make, me more hopeful. I will rejoice in having been a false prophet, and will he exceeding glad in having been no discerner of the times, touching this war, the government and slavery, if we can come out "emancipated and disenthralled"-will die content and happy, when I can see the accursed conspiracy against humanity defeated that has been the inspiration of our Federal Government throughout its entire existence-whether the defeat be accomplished by the conspirators, taking heed of their ways under the solicitations and warnings of philanthropists, or by their own overt acts of folly and madness, dashing blindly and plunging headlong to ruin.
The people of the North, with whom is the control of the case, are not prepared for a rational, peaceful, humane emancipation, under the dictates of philanthropy. They prefer waiting for gods to do the work bloodily. They have been most unfortunately educated in this regard. Having been always told that if they could not themselves do the work, gods would do it, they delay, and shrink from the responsibility. They trust in such gods as Washington and Lincoln-at Least in gods who are the inspirers of such men; and this is no better. He who was honored in standing in Theodore Parker's place recently, and reported in the Liberator for July 5, by implication made Washington and Lincoln to be nobler and truer Presidents than John Quincy Adams. The words reported were, that Lincoln is the noblest and truest President since Washington. (Applause.)" Not thirty Hues afterwards he says: If Mr. Lincoln had been allowed to carry on this government, he would now be returning fugitives, putting down insurrections, and hanging John Browns. He promised to do it, and he is a man of his word." It is preaching, mixed up like this, that muddles the heads of the hearers until they have no discernment of genuine morality and humanity. Whatever conies from gods they are taught is good, whether it be the breaking of chains and slavery, or the making of chains and slavery. Now, Washington was at one end of this governmental slave-holding process, and Lincoln is at the other; and gods have been in it all the way through, preached from pulpits North as well as pulpits South. It has been preaching and overreaching, exhorting and extorting, praying and preying, kneeling and stealing, saving souls, robbing and ravishing bodies, and ruining intellects.
Another, among the greatest hindrances to practical righteousness at the present time, is the Federal Constitution. This is more in the way now than the Bible. All who defend slavery by the Bible, defend it more by the Constitution; and many with whom the Bible is no authority make the Constitution authority all-sufficient for the iniquitous work. In the same number of the Liberator already alluded to, in an article containing very many very good things, copied from the Cincinnati Cazette, the question is asked: "Is the Government which we arc supporting a legitimate, constitutional and just Government?" The Gazette of course would answer yes to its own question thus put in the case. But I answer, No-unless the legitimacy and constitutionality mean any thing else and all else than justice. A more flagrantly unjust Government exists not on earth. This needs no proving now to the readers of the Liberator. For the support of this Government, the call now is for four hundred thousand men and four hundred millions of money; and the response increases it twenty per cent. The object is to have men and money enough to preserve the Government as it is-to protract and portion, keep labor in the control of capital-laborers in the hands of capitalists. A "just" government would need none of this sacrifice of life, squandering of treasure, and dissipation of morals. The North, by itself, would need nothing of the kind. Any number of States, North and South, East and West, without slavery, and with the intelligence and sense of propriety boasted of by our people, would need nothing of the kind. If the object of this war were to abolish slavery and establish a just government, one half of this amount of money and men would do it. The object of using this enormous amount of men and money, I repeat, is, to prevent emancipation, and reestablish the same unjust government.
Capitalists have a common, mutual sympathy, North and South. Capital everywhere aspires to control labor-to own it. Capitalists everywhere cooperate for the ownership of labor-of laborers. Northern capitalists are as eager for it as Southern; and will do baser things to accomplish their purposes. They are only restrained by the intelligence of laborers. They take every advantage of ignorance they dare to. They restrain intelligence-perverting truth and reason-by all the ways and means they dare employ. The government, the ruling power in this nation, is not at Washington. The government is not in the Capitol-nor yet at the Capital, so-called-it is in capital. Gold governs. Commerce-that preeminent corrupter of morals and breeder of pirates-governs. Trade governs. The ablest political writer among the public journalists of the West boasts that "trade can beat philanthropy, no matter how long a start it may have." If Horace Greeley was truthfully reported of, while his name was before the caucus at Albany for presenting candidates to succeed Wm. H. Seward in the U. S. Senate, he found it necessary to protest against his friends making a corrupting use of money in his behalf. Nothing is more notorious than that money is the power relied on for elections; and that they who pay out money and elect their men expect pay in return for value received-the pay to be in the honors or emoluments of other offices, or the advantages of trade. Witness the doings under Buchanan's administration in the appointment of officers and the awarding of contracts. And our present administration bids fair to outdo its predecessor in the same direction. The N. Y. Tribune, for June 20, 1801, says-
"We learn from a source not likely to be misinformed, that Mr. James E. Harvey has not been recalled from the Portuguese mission, although there is ample and unquestionable evidence of his complicity with the traitors of South Carolina. If any uncharitable persons should suppose that Harvey has some strong though mysterious hold, not upon the Secretary of State, but on prominent friends of his, deeply interested in contracts, and that President Lincoln is not aware of the facts, it would be difficult to deny that appearances were in favor of their hypothesis."
This same "Secretary of State," whose "prominent friends arc here implicated by intimation, said, on the 18th of September his, at St. Paul, Minnesota:
"For the first time in the history of the United States, no man in a free State can be bribed to vote for slavery. For the first time in the history of the republic, the Slave Power has not even the power to terrify or alarm the freeman so as to mate him submit, and scheme, and coincide, and compromise. I do not believe there has been one day since 1787 until now when slavery had any power in this government, except what it derived from buying up men of weak virtue, no principle and great cupidity, and terrifying men of weak nerve in the free States."
The wonder is, that Wm. H. Seward should have made such an utterance of conviction and such a confession. If a philanthropist had said as much in the way of accusing and convicting politicians and their victims, it would have been deemed uncharitable"-denounced as malicious." The probability is, that if he did not just then think and feel that he would himself reform and do differently in future, and endeavor to have others do likewise, in what he was dwelling upon, he intended at least to make the impression that such was his purpose and exhortation. But the confession, under all the circumstances, involves the confessor.
<c03>
No such time has yet arrived as he -was calling attention to and fixing on for such a turning point in political conduct. What has taken place, and been manifested, to make us believe that all at once just then our politicians were converted to virtue and honesty-he among the rest? His 12th of January speech, and all his measures for the pacification and perpetuation of slavery, do not indicate that Wm. H. Seward is more above bribes now than before. On the contrary, all his acts in the case, taken together, rather make it plain that this virtual confession to former guiltiness and inequity, made at St. Paul, was the trick of all his tricks, the humbug of all his humbugs, imposed upon the honest and credulous, to blind them to the greater villainy he had in contemplation-out-Barnuming Barnum, who, when he wants to humbug the people most unconscionably, impudently tells them, with affected frankness, he is going to do it.
In "Gov. Seward's speech at Auburn, the night before [6th of November] the battle," after taking his hirers round the course he had just been on through New England, the Middle and the Western States, he peaks of his getting back again with on eager featuring spirit to the metropolis, [New York city,] where sits the soul that sends forth the mighty energy of hat civilization." From New York primarily and prominently goes forth the governing inspiration; and it starts through the hands and pockets of such men as Thurlow Weed and Wm. H. Seward, the constituted regency of New York capitalists.
The crowning act of this Northern conspiracy for enslaving the producing classes to the corrupt government-that would subjugate them, and make and hold them subservient to its own interests-is the measure copied from Louis Napoleon, that most infamous deceiver and betrayer of the people. The measure was introduced into the House by John Sherman, recommended in the Senate by Charles Sooner, and in the Cabinet by Secretary Chase of the Treasury. It persuades the people of small means everywhere to invest their little all at disposal, as creditors of the government-thus seducing them into sympathy with it, and support of it, in its conspiracies and inhumanities. Better, far better, to use their earnings for educating and enlightening children, that they may be kept above and out of the bribery and corruption.
Perhaps-probably-the New York Tribune comes nearer being philanthropic than any other leading political paper in the nation; and exerts a wider and more, powerful influence. Now, the Tribune's standing leading column-head over this matter is-"The War for the Union." It declares-"This war is in truth a war for the preservation of the Union, not for the destruction of slavery. "In a late issue, it assumes to say for the people-"In the view of the people, the only purpose of the war is to crush the rebellion, and preserve the integrity of the republic." The day before this it said-
"The rebellion having been commenced under false pretences, no truce or treaty can in honor be proposed by the Government to the insurgents, until they restore the status quo ante bellum. Let them give up Sumter and the other fortresses they have seized; bring back the arms and munitions they have stolen at Norfolk, Harper's Ferry and other depots; surrender the ships and revenue cutters they have pirated; make restitution of the money and bullion they have pilfered from the New Orleans mint and elsewhere. Let them disband their troops, cancel their letters of marque, and cease making war upon the United States. In a word, let them dissolve their so-called confederacy, and acknowledge the supremacy of the Federal Constitution. The National Government cannot entertain even the thought of negotiating with traitors till they ground their arms, return to their allegiance, and sue for pardon."
All this they will soon be ready enough to do. And what then? The North will be with slavery on its hands still as before, with the expenses and demoralization of war added, and increasing misrule and barbarity and chronic anarchy for the future. If the Tribune would be glad of emancipation to come out of the conflict, it is afraid to call for it as a governmental measure, lest the North be divided on it-thus confessing that all this sham pretension of the North being a unit is only a pitching-in for a political squabble, to <illegible> Compromise-that is, preventing emancipation. Not that the Tribune willingly, voluntarily acts for the prevention of emancipation; but it is afraid to do otherwise. So of Henry Ward Beecher. He says, "This is not to be a crusade of emancipation. "According to both, it is to sec who shall "whip" or be "whipped," "in a lair, stand-up fight." This is the dignified language of Beecher and the Tribune.. It is the language of the prize-ring-the language of a dog-fight. The language is worthy the enterprise. What is to be done is to settle a political animosity. The Tribune would "Thrash the secessionists into good behavior." If, while this is going on, the gods take interest enough in the case to madden and confuse the belligerents till humanity can do something at righting itself, all right. If otherwise, why-the will of the gods be done. Five hundred thousand men, and five hundred millions of money-a thousand or two or three, more or less, in a battle, with brains scattered, hearts and lungs pierced, bowels torn out, limbs severed-sisters and mothers in anguish-and all to know whether slavery is to be protected, nourished, cherished and cared for, under stripes and stars, or under a rattlesnake.
ORSON S. MURRAY.
P. S. Since a great part of this was written, I have waited on still twenty days longer, to see what encouragement I could find. All I perceive more encouraging is, that the South, in their extremity, are manifesting somewhat more of earnestness. But to have to base a hope for humanity on such prospects, such ways and means, is quite too barbarizing.
July 27. O. S. M.
P. S. 2d. I have just read Crittenden's resolutions. The sly old serpent, the veteran deceiver, is to succeed, after all. Slavery is to out-general liberty. The South are to come out ahead by accepting what they can get. The calling for the obliteration of party lines is only a call for obliteration of opposition to slavery-Union for slavery's salvation. Probably Crittenden (if not too old) will be the next President, and be supported by the New York Tribune, Louisville Journal, and the Charleston Mercury.
The falsity, villainous and atrocious, of Crittrnden's position, consists of his exonerating slavery, and placing all the responsibility on the children of that iniquitous parent. Slavery is not to be warred upon, because the legitimate children of slavery, in the lap of their mother, are doing their mother's deeds. It is sufficient to cuff the children's ears, and let the old harlot go unscathed, entirely excused, with "established rights" to raise up another like progeny, and as much worse as she can. A Congress that can be thus handled and humbugged are fit to be hurled from their places. A people who will submit to such indignity and ignominy are fit to be ridden by unconscionable priests and politicians, and crushed under the iron hoofs of remorseless money-mongers and oppressors.
July 28. O. S. M.
EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS. Government is puzzled what to do about an exchange of prisoners. It cannot make an arrangement that is dictated by considerations of humanity without so far admitting the nationality of the rebels. This would have been all well enough to think of three or four months ago, but it is altogether out of place now. Since the middle of March, the Southern movement has proceeded with strides so gigantic that it has passed completely out of the narrow domain of Rebellion, and entered upon the broad, limitless field of Revolution. There is no sense in treating the evil as if it were something which it is not. To do that would be as wise as would be the conduct of the physician who should call a case of confluent small-pox a case of common cold, and administer accordingly. The time has departed when it was possible to treat the rebels merely as rebels. They cannot be handled municipally, but must be handled internationally. This is unfortunate, but it is the unavoidable consequence of our having been unable to do anything toward the suppression of the rebellion. The rebel is the man who is hanged, not the man who hangs other men.-Traveller.
<c04>
PEACE AND ANTI-SLAVERY IN AMERICA.
Our brethren in America are in such a state of preternatural excitement that it is scarcely possible to say anything to them, or of them, that shall not be construed into an affront. The intense wrath into which they have worked themselves towards the British Government and nation, appears to us one of the most inexplicable phenomena in the whole range of political history. We have not been slow, as our readers can testify, to condemn the proneness which our countrymen have sometimes shown, to indulge a meddlesome and choleric temper towards other nations. But in the present case, we are bound to say, that the spirit displayed on this side of the Atlantic, has been on the whole a kind and generous one towards our American kindred. The feeling with which our people have watched the rising troubles in the great republic, has been neither exultation nor indifference, but sorrow and sympathy of the most genuine description, and that springing, we are convinced, not merely or mainly, from any apprehension of the injury which we must sustain in consequence of those troubles, but from the deep interest we have always cherished in the prosperity of a nation sprung from our own loins, and destined, as we had hoped, to give to the world the most perfect illustration ever yet witnessed of the development and triumph of free institutions. Our Government, as we showed in our last, have done nothing but what they were imperatively bound to do, in order to preserve their neutrality in this unhappy contest. With one or two exceptions far too insignificant to merit notice, nothing could be more considerate than the tone in which our public men have alluded to this subject. The House of Commons positively refused permission to one of its members, otherwise much respected, to make a statement on the question of which he had given notice, because, from his known disposition in favor of the South, it was thought he might utter sentiments that would offend and irritate our brethren in the North, at a moment so critical in their history. And even our press, amid the unbounded license of remark which it claims and exercises on all conceivable topics, has in this instance shown more forbearance and self-restraint than on any exciting question of foreign politics, that we remember discussed for many years. That a person ingeniously bent upon finding such things may cull here and there a spiteful or insolent remark, scattered over the innumerable publications issued in this country, is true enough, we dare say. But in the immense majority of cases, we contend, our press has spoken in a generous and sympathizing spirit. And so has it been, so far as we know, in all other directions. We can go into no place of worship where free prayer is used, without hearing petitions the most earnest and devout presented to Heaven for the peace and prosperity of the United States.
And yet, in spite of all this, our good friends in America insist upon it that they do well to be angry with us, just because we cannot run into the same excess of warlike riot with themselves; They won't allow us even to say we are sorry that they arc about to be involved in the miseries of civil war. They repel as an insult the expression of regret, most genuine as it undoubtedly is, on the part of their best friends, at seeing their country drifting into that bottomless gulf of debts, standing armies, and ruinous military expenditure, in which the old countries of Europe are struggling for very life. We, also, have come in for our share of that pitiless storm of ireful invective which is now pouring from the American heavens upon all mankind. Our offence was the article which appeared in our June number, bewailing the civil war brooding so ominously in the western hemisphere, and especially deploring the countenance which that portion of the anti-slavery party who had hitherto professed the principles of peace, were, giving to the war. For this we have been called to task with great severity by more than one American journal. Among our assailants, we regret to say, is Mr. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, in the columns of the Liberator, Mr. Garrison is very angry, and, therefore, not very logical. He uses extremely strong language, appearing to imagine, more American, that mere vehemence and audacity of expression may pass as a substitute for argument. But nothing that he can say of us, will alter our estimate of his character, or diminish the profound respect we have long cherished for him in our heart of hearts, as one of the best and bravest men now living on the face of God's earth. The two points in <illegible> in the greatest offence are first, our assertion that this is not an anti-slavery war; and, secondly, our lamentation over what we deemed a departure from principle on the part of those anti-slavery men, who, having up to this time emphatically disclaimed the use of any but moral means in their conflict with slavery, have gone in for this war with undisguised exultation and violence.
We are obliged to say that nothing has occurred since that article was written to induce us to recall or qualify the words we then employed. We believe still, as we believed then, that it is not an anti-slavery war. There was no sort of ambiguity about the language we used. We admitted that, beyond all doubt, slavery was remotely the cause of the war. But what we affirmed then, and what we re-affirm now, is this,-that we have no evidence to prove, but a great deal of evidence to disprove the assumption, that the Government of the United States, and of the great majority of the Northern people, are going to war with any intention or wish to abolish slavery. What we say is, that the moving impulse which has heaved the mass of the community into such violent agitation is not the question of slavery at all, but the preservation of the Union, the Constitution of 1787, the insult offered to the American flag. There may or may not be justifying causes of civil war. That is a question we do not now enter upon. But to say that a war waged under the influence of such motives is an anti-slavery war, is only willfully to practice a delusion upon ourselves. Our anti-slavery friends in America are in a position very much resembling that occupied by the friends of the nationalities in England during the Russian war. These latter tried, in the face of all fact, reason, and probability, to persuade themselves that that war was to be a war for the liberation of Hungary and Poland. They asserted this loudly and persistently on the platforms and through the press. They snapped angrily at anybody who denied or doubted it. It was vain to cite the avowed purpose of the Western Governments as expounded in their own proclamations. It was vain to remind them of the whole past policy of the Powers most immediately concerned, as rendering their expectation utterly unlikely of accomplishment. It was vain to point out the enormous difficulties and complications involved in such an enterprise. It mattered not. They had made up their minds that it might, and must, and should be a war for the emancipation of the nationalities, and whosoever did not join in their sanguine hopes was a friend of despotism, and an enemy of human freedom. Well, and what was the result? The result was, as we had ventured to foretell, that the allies took' especial care to do nothing that would tend in the slightest degree to provoke or encourage a rising of the nationalities, and when the Plenipotentiaries met at Paris, in 185U, to arrange the conditions of peace, Poland and Hungary were never once mentioned, nor was the smallest thought given to their sufferings and claims. In like manner we greatly fear our anti-slavery friends in America are mistaking their own passionate wish for the fact, and that some of them will awake out of their day-dream to find that though, in their eagerness to abolish slavery, they have been content to sacrifice their peace principles, they will have made that sacrifice wholly in vain. It is possible, indeed, that this conflict may, by tremendous social convulsion, overthrow the abominable thing which is the curse of the Western world. But we do not see how this can be done in a manner that shall be honorable to the cause of liberty, or that might not have been done as effectually and far more guiltlessly by a peaceable separation.
But we must try to justify to our own readers the opinion we have ventured to repeat above, that this war-whatever consequences may accidentally flow from it-is not in the intention of the great body of its promoters an anti-slavery war, and is not, therefore, on that ground entitled to the sympathy of the friends of freedom on this side of the Atlantic.
The last message of President Lincoln is now before us. It is full of the war from its first sentence to its last. And what does it say? To borrow the language of the Economist, "It does not suggest or hint that the cessation of negro slavery may be a consequence of the war; it does not say that the abolition of that slavery is the object of the war; it says, as distinctly as words can say it, that Lincoln is fighting to bring back the South-the South as it stands, with its angry population and with its slaves -into union with the North; it says that Mr. Lincoln is desirous of conquering certain seceding communities; it implies that having conquered them he is willing to continue the old federal Union with them;
<c05>
but it does not say that he intends to set free the slaves. Unquestionably he does not intend it. The war is a war of conquest, not of philanthropy." This appears to us, we own, a perfectly fair interpretation of the message.
But what do the journals say? The New York Tribune is admitted to be the most influential of all the papers that advocate what are called Republican penciled, that is the principles on which the last presidential election was carried, the principles on which the actual government of the States is constructed. Well, in a recent copy of that journal now before us, the editor says in reply to a correspondent:-
"Our correspondent, and many others, insist that we shall make this war for the Union a war to abolish slavery. We cannot assent to this. We believe our assent to the project would prejudice and put back the cause of emancipation. For do but consider these facts:-In the war for the Union men of all parties are heartily enlisted. Democrats, old and live Whigs, Hunkers of every grade and school, are fighting in the ranks, raising regiments, paying money, just as freely and heartily as Republicans. For the Union, they stand ready to lavish their treasure and blood, but not for abolition, or anything of the sort."
Then, again, we find large religious bodies passing resolutions ardently pledging themselves to support the war, without the smallest allusion to slavery, but simply and exclusively with a view to the maintenance of the Union, and the honor of the American flag. Here is the testimony of a leading member of the Episcopal Church in the States. In a letter from the Right Rev. Alonzo Potter, Bishop of Pennsylvania, addressed to some in the South, and published in the New York Observer of June the 6th, we find the following language:-
"I do not believe that at the North one man in fifty desires an invasion of your soil, or the destruction of your social system. Only the smallest number
of fanatics think or talk of slavery. The whole question is one of self-defence, and of Government or no Government."
Mr. C. K. Whipple, one of the most faithful and unflinching friends of the anti-slavery cause in the States, commenting on the above opinion of the Bishop, says:-
"Here we have the result of the Bishop's observations, and also his own feeling in regard to the slavery question. His feeling is directly opposite to ours, since he esteems those' fanatics' who care for the rights or the interests of the slaves. But his observation precisely agrees with ours, when he says that the great majority of Northern men are not even disposed to interfere with slavery. They are fighting for the Government of the country, and for nothing else; and so unspeakably besotted are they by their long tolerance of slavery and fraternization with slaveholders, that if, even now, the rebellion were abandoned, a mat majority of Northern men would agree. that the slaveholding might continue undisturbed."
For it is curious enough, that while our anti-slavery friends in America seem exceeding wroth when we deny that this is a war undertaken in the interests of the slave, they allow members of their own body to say so without rebuke. Thus at a meeting of the Friends of Progress, a very thorough anti-slavery body, the following resolution was passed on the 2nd of June last:-
"While we regard with sympathy and a measure of gratification the spirit of indignation and resistance now roused in the North to the insatiate demands and atrocious insolences of slavery and the slaveholders' rebellion, we still see that the North is yet far from standing equal to the requirements of this hour, or loyal to the claims of sovereign justice, in that it persists in ignoring the slave, proclaiming from executive chair and from soldier camp its readiness and determination to maintain, and, with all the power of its bayonets enforce, his subjugation, and protect to the slaveholder his 'institution' of robbery and murder, intact and inviolate; and we hereby bear our emphatic testimony against this attitude as base, dastardly, and cruelly inhuman, and sure, if continued, to brand this nation as a nation of rebels and traitors, North as well as South, to smite it with the blight of bankruptcy and death, making its every attempt to vindicate its liberties futile and a mockery, its very successes defeats, and its victories overthrows."
Hear again the language of several of the speakers at the last anniversary of the Church Anti-Slavery Society at Boston. Mr. Lewis Tappan said: "He feared that the action of the North was occasioned by an insult to our Hag, not by love to the slave and the spirit of the gospel." Rev. Mr. Smith of Gloucester said: "The people were hurrahing for the Union, but they cared little for the slaves. He was never so disheartened as now, in consequence of the hostility of the press and the pulpit to genuine Abolitionism. If the slaves are freed in the present war, it will be in spite of the present interest of the government and the churches."
Mrs. L. Maria Child says:-" What do you think of the times? I am often despondent, still more often I am impatient to a point of fiery indignation, and I am seldom very hopeful. I told our noble friend Wendell, that I thought he began to hurrah long before we could see our way out of the wood. It is erodent that the Government mean no good to the slaves."
It is true that some members of the anti-slavery party are more sanguine. But even they hardly dare go further than to hope that the Government and the Northern majority may be pushed by the force of events beyond their own present purpose and policy.
Mr. Garrison's reply to our-we will not say charge, but- lamentation over the apostasy of those anti-slavery men who, having formerly professed peace principles, have now become ardent advocates of the war, is a very curious illustration of the maze of embarrassment in which a good and able man may become involved, when he has got himself into a false position. He first says that many of the American anti-slavery men never did profess peace principles. Well; the reply to that is obvious enough,-that our remarks did not apply, and were never meant to apply, to that class. He next gives a very faint and vague denial to the allegation that those who did make that profession have abandoned it, and then, by way of illustrating this denial, he proceeds to argue very strenuously in defence of the war, he himself having been, as we always understood, one of the most conspicuous and emphatic in his. advocacy, not only of peace, but of absolute non-resistance. And it is curious enough to find how quietly and complacently Mr. Garrison now adopts the old stock arguments against the views he has hitherto professed. He. seems to think that by expatiating upon the turpitude of the South, their hatred of freedom, the violence of their language, their ferocity of spirit, and their cruelties in act, he has settled the question as to the propriety of invading their country with fire and sword. But the Christian principles of peace, if they have any value at all, are of value precisely in reference to such characters as he has described the Southerners to be. They teach us how we are to act, not towards those who are kind, moderate, and submissive to our will, but towards our enemies, towards those who curse us, and hate us, and despitefully use us and persecute us. No amount of invective against our opponents, no amount of actual demerit on their part, will suffice-to absolve us from the obligations of the law of love. Nor does it at all avail to Mr. Garrison to put cases to us, as to how we have acted, or may act, in certain supposed emergencies, similar to those in which the American Abolitionists are now placed. We hope we have proved faithful to our convictions, even when, as has been frequently the case of late years, that has obliged us to place ourselves in opposition to the Government of our own country. No better proof of this can be given than in the unbounded opprobrium that has been hurled against us, as disloyal, unpatriotic, &c. But the real question is, not what we have done, or would do, but what we ought to do. And it always seems to us an indication of conscious argumentative weakness, when instead of grappling with and refuting principles, we find persons imagining hypothetical eases in which they try to shake our faith by pitting our interests against our principles.
The simple fact is, with regard to our ardent anti-slavery friends in America, they can only see one evil in the universe, and that is "slavery. Surely, it does not behoove us to censure them harshly on this account. It presses upon them so closely, they have been gazing upon it so long, and battling with it so bravely that we need not wonder the grim feature should have swelled into such gigantic dimensions as to fill their whole sphere of vision. Still, it is greatly to be deplored, when a body of good men in their anxiety to secure the defeat of one evil, are prepared to invoke the aid and to lend their consecrating sanction to other evils as great, or perhaps greater. Heaven forbid, that in saying this, we should seem to try to extenuate the enormities of slavery. If any one wants our confession of faith on that subject, here it is. We believe slavery to be an abominable and accursed thing, which degrades
<c06>
man, and dishonors God, which is an outrage on reason, a scandal to humanity, and especially an insult and an affront to the whole spirit and genius of the gospel. But then we say precisely the same thing, with yet deeper emphasis of war. We believe that also is an abominable and accursed thing, which includes all the evils that are in slavery, and adds some others of its own, if possible, still more malignant and terrible. And is it to be supposes, that we can look on with pleasure, when we see men whom we honor and love, so blinded by their hatred of one sort of wickedness, as to rush with open arms into the embrace of another equally atrocious? We believe they don't perceive the full significance of their own conduct, when they join hands with the war power for the contest with slavery. It is to despair of truth. It is to acknowledge the impotence of moral force in its conflict with evil. It is to proclaim aloud, that Christianity, which in its first vigorous childhood, went forth, and, by sheer dint of the spiritual energies inherent in it, grappled with and overthrew the ancient paganism, backed though it was with all the military pomp and power of imperial Rome, has now become so effete and feeble a thing, that it cannot hold its own except by invoking the aid of the legions of darkness. Fraud, Ferocity and Lust, Pride, Malignity and Revenge, Slaughter Rapine and Violation, and "all the grisly host of Acheron," which muster and marshal under the banners of war. Don't let our friends deceive themselves. These arc the auxiliaries with whom they are about to enter into alliance, for no war ever was waged, or can be waged, or will be waged to the end of time, in which these demons have not borne the principal share.
We cannot conceive a more affecting proof of the false position in which the peace portion of the anti-slavery body have become involved, than is afforded by the fact, that having staked their hopes for the slave upon the issues of this war, they are reduced to the necessity of striving to the utmost of their ability to make the war as prolonged, desperate, and deadly as possible. And to secure that it should be so, they do not hesitate to avow the most earnest and passionate wishes, that the South may continue, and be driven still deeper into all those evil passions and practices which in the same breath they denounce in the strongest language they can command as "ungodly." "atheistically," "diabolical," &c. That is to say, that of all other people, they the avowed friends of peace, are obliged to long and pray that their enemies, who were but a few months ago their fellow-countrymen and Mow-Christians, should become more wicked, more morally vile and abominable, than they are. That we are guilty of no exaggeration in this statement will appear from the following quotations.
Mr. Lewis Tappan, at the meeting of the Church Anti-Slavery Society said:-"The insults which the South heaps upon the North are the most pleasing items of news that one reads in these days. These insults will spur up the North to their duty. He hoped the rebels would not back down, till the work of liberating the slaves was done. He received every Insult and aggression of the South upon the North with joy, because it gave strength to the anti-slavery sentiment. When 20,000 of our young men have been slain, the North will understand what they are fighting for, and his prayer was that war may continue till the North is converted."
Mrs. L. Maria Child says:-"Even those slaves now allowed to remain in Fort Monroe, are to be protected by the United States, so long as their masters are in rebellion against the Government. God grant they may all rebel, and remain in rebellion, and practise upon us the barbarism of slavery, till we are goaded to do from policy and revenge what we ought to do from justice and humanity."
We have no heart to make any comments on such words coming from such a quarter. Can any one now doubt that the policy must be utterly bad, that can have so far demoralized such men as Lewis Tappan, and such women as Maria Child, as to make them thus rejoice in iniquity, and make, it their prayer to God that it should become yet more intense and malignant. If this is not doing evil that good may come, we cannot conceive how such an offence is possible. Our profound reverence and affection for Mr. Tappan have undergone no change. But if we needed anything further to induce us to abhor and execrate this unnatural war, it would be to find its maleficent influence clouding the judgment and conscience of a man like him. to so fearful an extent as is indicated by the words above cited. It is, however, only a temporary eclipse; and this good and great man will, we have no doubt, ere long emerge out of the darkness in which prejudice and passion have enveloped him, to a clearer vision of those "primal duties" springing from Christian truth and love, which "shine aloft like, stars."-London Herald of Peace, August 1st.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLAES.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Pair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan, 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheekr & Wison, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parkers improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $10 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double look-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing.
"WITHOUT SMUTTING." MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair force turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is no afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
Call and see some of the best references in the county. No charge for information.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
June 14. tf
NOW READY.
SERMONS AND SPEECHES BY GERRIT SMITY: containing his Six Sermons on the Religion of Reason, and three of his recent Speeches-one them delivered lately, on the War. Price 50 cents.
Far sale by ROOS & TOUSEY,
July 19-4t No.121 Nassan street, N.Y.
