THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING 
-At THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, &1 OORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for ten dollars, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less then one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the America Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCES JACKSON, EDMOND QUNICY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PEILLIPS,
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 45.BOSTON, FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 11, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1506.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
THE FATE OF BROWN.
The New York Journal of Commerce has an intimation that, perhaps, the states Virginia, in its majesty and power, having vindicated its honor, put down the invasion, and brought the desperado Brown and his associates to justice, will exercise its mercy in the pardon of the prisoners.
We must confess our surprise at such an intimation in a quarter distinguished as conservative and patriotic. But we are more then ever convinced that the whole gang of outlaws should have been executed as soon as taken. Hereafter when an attempt like that at Harper's Ferry is renewed, let the ’higher law’ of abolitionism be met by the ’higher law’ of self-preservation, and the ruffians have a short shrift and a long rope.
There are occasions and times when it is wise and safe to follow impulses rather then reflection. We have little doubt that Brown himself and all his confederates at the north were surprised that he was permitted to live ten minutes after his capture, and constricted by abolitionists into fear, and have given rise to vain expectations of his pardon in the midst of those who sympathize with murderers and pirates, though not with their crimes. It is unnecessary to say that the human mind never entertained a more insane delusion then expectation of Brown's pardon, and that the only regret is that Seward, their own necks within reach of the same halter.-Richmond Enquirer.
The Journal of Commerce Is mistaken if it expects any clemency to the prisoners at Charlestown from the executive of Virginia, or any manifestation from any quarter at the South, of a disposition to deal gently with them. The invasion of Harper's Ferry has exhausted the forbearance of the people of the south, and created, from the Potomac to the Rio Grande a feeling of indignation of which our northern brethren are not aware, because it is too to be expressed in the noisy threats in which the South Usually vents her rage, for wrongs which she suffers from the North. This feeling extends beyond the brigands, who are now upon trial at Charlestown, to the party at the North, whose teaching they have illustrated by treason, robbery and bloodshed, and to the, whose teachings they have illustrated by reasons, robbery and bloodshed and to the section which submits to the domination of such a party. It demands that the brigand Brown and his followers shall suffer the extreme penalties of the law, for the crime of which they have been guilty to or compromise with the Anti-slavery fanaticism of the North,-Georgia Constitution.
The more we think of this unparalleled affair, the further we become bewildered and lost in amazement. Their career was a short but terrible one. Many Valuable lives, we are told, have been sacrificed-a circumstance truly to be deplored. Like the neighboring population, we go in for a summary vengeance. A terrible example should be made, that will stand and as a beacon-light in all time to come.-Savannah Republican.
It demonstrates the necessity of the Northern people in a body, and with one voice, putting down and crushing out such miserable, incendiary, Abolition wretches, as Giddings, Garrison, Fred Douglass, Wendell Phillips, Seward, Wilson and Summer. These are all schemers and conspirators against the peace of the Union.
All the powers of the Federal Government and the Government of Virginia should be employed in bringing then to a speedy justice. If there is evidence showing in the complicity of Giddings, Douglass, or They, or any other person in this affair, let them be arrested, tired and convicted, and punished.
As to prisoners who were caught in the act, let them be hung, and that forthwith. There should be not temporizing and no fiddling on the part either of the president or of Governor wise. The insure agents are nothing more nor less that pirated and murderers, entitled to none of the courtesies of war nor clemencies of law. Immediate shooting or hanging. without trial, is the punishment they and the only punishment which will have the desired effect, either at the north or the south. In regard to such offenders, a just and safe principle is to hang them, and try them afterwards.-Richmond Whig.
It is idle for Republican journals, in their fear and cowardly denials of any knowledge of the Harper's Ferry insurrection, to attempt to mislead public sentiment by declaring that Brown was ’mad,’ ’crazy,’ 'affinities.’ that he had no connection in the North, and that ’no political party is responsible.’ The Republican papers dare not approve of the result of their own teachings and practices. Is Garrison crazy? Was the editor of the Syracuse Journal crazy? Was Dr. Cutter crazy? Is General James Watson web mad? Is Horace Greeley an inmate of a hospital, or does he still edit the New York Tribune? Is Mr. Burlingame sane? Abraham Lincoln, Senator Wisdom, Senator Wade, Senator Sumner, Senator Seward, are they all mad? Are the 'three thousand preachers ’of New England, with Henry ward Beecher and Theodore Parker at their heads inmates of mad-house, or are they still, if all living, preaching the gospel of Christ? Yet all these, and tens of thousands of others, editors and speakers, have advocated the doctrines which ’mad(?) Brown’ has put in bloody practice. The Republican party of the North is stained with the blood of insurrection, and let it be painted upon their banners-they are responsible before God for the victims at Harper's Ferry!-Pennsylvanian.
The immediate moral, and the immediate legal, responsibility for the bloody affair at Harper's Ferry rests, we believe, upon William H. Seward and his teachings of incessant war upon slavery: for is not Seward the great Apollo of the Republican party, and was not Brown only one of its faithful instruments in his ’Kansas work'? We say again, let the government prosecute its inquiries in this direction, and let justice be done, according to the facts which may be is closed. Surely, while Beecher and Phillips and many other leaders and organs of the Anti-slavery cause, Abolition and Republican, are boasting of and glorying in ’Old Brown.’ and daring and defying the Virginia or federal authorities to hang him, surely there must be some ’aid comfort’ in the back ground well worth looking after, and bringing to judgment-New York Herald,
The Abolitionists mentioned by Old Brown as organizing of his nefarious scheme are said to be quaking in their boots. Beecher, it is said, will shortly take a trip to Europe, and it is thought that Gerri Smith will accompany him. Giddings repudiates Brown-says he don't know the old rascal! Rural Southern.
<c02>
GERRIT SM1TH.
If events shall prove that Gerrit Smith of New York has been concerned in encouraging by his advice or money the treasonable movement of Ossawattomie Brown, we know no reason why he should not be punished with all the severity the law demands. He has been accounted a man of pure and noble impulses and philanthropic purposes; but if he has been led by his hates or by his devotion to one idea into the company of misguided and criminal men, he cannot hope to escape the consequences of his act. He has no political affiliations with the, Republican party; and, if prosecuted, will doubtless rely for defenders upon Democrats whom he has in effect appeared anxious to serve. When he set himself up as an independent candidate for Governor of, New York, because the Republicans did not come up to his requirements on this slavery question, he became an active and open enemy of the party; and as such has been constantly treated. His warmest, personal friend is Mr. Douglas of Illinois. When last in this city, he was the Senator's guest; and his last speech made here was a fulsome laudation of that gigantic little man. We look for that gentleman and the Chicago Times, his hand-organ, to enter upon his defence.—Chicago Tribune.
OLD JOHN BROWN.
This madman has met a tragic end at last. An insane effort to accomplish what none but a madman would attempt, has resulted as any one but a madman would have foreseen, in death to all who were engaged in it. The account of the wild foray in which he was engaged, we publish in another, column.
Knowing the character of the man, and familiar with his course for the past two years, as nearly all citizens of Kansas are, none here will be surprised at his attempted insurrection and its bloody termination. Of him, we might say with truth, his ’wrongs have made him mad. There was a time when John Brown, the Pennsylvania farmer, and his sons, were as peaceable and peace-loving citizens as could be found in our country. He came to Kansas early, and loving the cause of freedom, he was an earnest Free State man. For this he suffered. He saw his home invaded and destroyed; he mourned the death of a beloved son. And these great wrongs crazed the old man, and made him a fanatic, a monomaniac, with but one thought, one idea, one impulse—vengeance on the slave power which had destroyed his peace, revenge on the men who had murdered his kindred and friends. It is said that he took an awful oath that while life remained, his hand should be raised against this power, and he would war against it to the death.
No sane man, however strong in his convictions against slavery, will pretend to justify the mad course he pursued. All will unite in condemning it and no Northern man but would use every effort to put down such an expedition as he undertook. The termination of his foray will be the termination of every such insane and murderous attempt to create a servile insurrection, as it ought to be. None but madmen would ever attempt it, aid they will meet with a madman's death.
Of the insurgents, fifteen have been killed. Brown and the others have been captured, and will be hung, as they deserve to be. And thus will terminate this insane attempt to incite a servile insurrection. Thus will it always be with the traitors who engage in such attempts. Those engaged in them will be hung like dogs, and their murderous designs will perish with them.—Freedom's (Atcham-son) Champion.(!!)
BAD NEWS FOR THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Our special Richmond despatch informs us that it has been decided on by the Virginia authorities to hand over Cooke—John Brown's lieutenant—to be tried by the federal court in the Harper's Ferry district. The object of this is to have Seward, Greeley, San born, Wilson, Hale, Forbes, Gerrit Smith, and all others who were implicated in the conspiracy, or who are known to have been in the secrets of the conspirators, subpoenaed as witnesses, and placed on the stand to tell all they know in the matter. They are outside the jurisdiction of the Virginia State courts, but not of the federal courts.
Gerrit Smith, it seems, was anxious, after the failure of his 'Kansas work,’ to unburthen his mind and make a full statement to the public, confessing his own connection with the Harper's Ferry outrage, and showing up the part taken in it by all the black republicans and abolitionists of New York and New England: but his friends restrained him, and induced him to keep quiet. If the plan intimated by our Richmond correspondent be carried; out, the Peterboro ’philanthropist will have a legitimate opportunity afforded him of telling’ the truth,; the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
We do sincerely hope, therefore, that the federal and the Virginia authorities will arrive at a prompt understanding on this matter, have Cooke put on trial before a district Judge of the United-States, and process issued to compel the attendance of all persons in this section of the country whose names have been associated with the traitorous and murderous acts of Ossawatomie Brown. We will then know to what extent Seward, Sumner. Smith Lawrence, Greeley & Co., were aiders and abettors; in this villanous conspiracy. Hurry up the indictment!—New York Herald. 
WHO'S TO BLAME?
A squad of fanatics whose zeal is wonderfully disproportioned to their sense, and a double-handful of slave whose ignorance is equalled only by their desire for the freedom of which they have been robbed, —all commanded by a man who has for years been as mad as a March hare, unite in making an insurrection at Harper's Ferry. They break into and take possession of an United States Armory, stop a railway train, kill a few citizens, assume commanding positions about the town; and for a few hour meet with none to dispute their right. They are guilty of the most incomprehensible stupidity and folly as well as unpardonable criminality in all these acts; and when their career is arrested, their leader shot down, and his followers are dispersed, there is not a public journal of any party, or public man of any shade of opinion found to approve their means or justify their ends. But what matters it that the stark mad enterprise was the product of addle brains; that in itself it is incontestable evidence: of the insanity of its originator; that its chief in his confession claims all the credit and all the criminality for himself; that the purposes of the emote are foreign to Republican policy; that the mean chosen for its consummation are utterly repugnant to Republican sense of right and wrong,—in spite of these, the journals of tube bogus Democracy have already began their lying assertions, that for the in surjection and its consequences tube Republican party are to be held accountable? Human mendacity could go no further.
We class them altogether—Black Doug lasses and white, old Brown and Senator Brown, the insurrectionists at Harper's Ferry, and the secessionists.
<c03>
Of Mississippi—all disturbers of the public peace-all howlers who care nothing for country or consequences—all traitors dyed in the wool. Brown, braver then the others, has attempted what his compeers the Sooth only threaten. Dissolution of the Union is the object of all. It will be a glorious day when the Republicans coming into power, pat the government back into the grooves in which it ran so smoothly for three-fourths of a century—when by their wisdom and patriotism, insurrections for Freedom will be impossible, and when secession for Slavery will be an offense punishable by banging! In the meantime, this bogus Democracy which has stirred up the heinous and unnatural strife must be charged with all the consequences and they are developed in the North or the South.—Chicago Tribune.
‘This frightful transaction was an outbreak not merely of Abolitionism, but of Republicanism. It was a practical demonstration of the avowed principles and direct teaching of the leaders of that party. So long as these teachings were confined to Abolitionists proper, such a band of fools and madmen and practical cut-throats as that which undertook the ’Kansas work’ at this place, could not have been found willing to stake their lives upon such an enterprise. But when the tale was taken up by Republicans improper, and lessons of disunion, and revolt, and violence, and contempt of the Constitution and the law, were announced at Annuli Hall, and promulgated from the stump, the convention, the State legislative hall, and the seat in the Senate of the United States—what could more legitimately have followed then an application of the schooling as that which we have just witnessed? The whole mischief of those overt acts is distinctly traceable to, if it be not an inevitable sequence of the stupendous fallacy of the ’higher law.’ 'The lower law, upon this pernicious theory, is the Constitution and the fundamental law, which hinds together the people and the States of this Union, and protects them in their rights and persons and property. The higher law is the law of every man's mind, unenlightened, or morally debased, or politically distorted, as it may be; the law of personal feeling, bigotry, prejudice, ignorance, destructiveness; anything, for the time being, which fanaticism may dictate or selfishness suggest. To inculcate and urge the supremacy of the one these laws is to contemn, and despise, and overthrow, and trample upon the other. There will never be wanting Old Browns to execute, so long as there are Stewards to promulgate the ’irrepressible conflict’ of the higher law with any of the institutions of the country.'-Virginia correspondent of Boston Courier. 
‘We have no doubt that very many of the leaders of the Republican Party will be implicated by tube publication of the correspondence that has been recovered. Should the Grand Jury, upon the examination of these letters, 'rolls of liberty,’ &c., find a 'true bill ’against such men as Gerrit Smith, Giddings, Garrison, &c., and the requisition by the Executive of Virginia be refused, a serious question will be presented, not only to the people of Virginia, but of the entire South. Such refusal we do not desire to anticipate. The evils it would entail involve the permanency of the Union.’
The Southern people have heretofore disregarded the ravings of Northern fanatics, because they believed such madness to be merely a pecuniary speculation; but the amount of money with which these wretches at Harper's Ferry were supplied, shows that the Northern fanatics mean more then words, and are determined to wage with men and money the ’irrepressible conflict’ to the bitter end. Another fact, showing the amount of money at the disposal of these wretches, is found in a Baltimore paper, that large purchases of percussion caps, with orders for more from New York, were made last week in that city. Whence came this money? This question, perhaps, will never be answered, but the fact that a large sum of money was at the disposal of these wretches, is beyond doubt. Who supplied the money will never be ascertained, but the extent of hatred to the South may be somewhat measured by this pecuniary fact.'—Richmond Enquirer.
'We are greatly mistaken if this diabolical scheme, contrary to the expectation of the wretches who formed it, do not unmask and lay bare to the detestation of the whole country the true character of the agitation that has so long been kept up on this subject and we shall be still more mistaken if it do not give a blow to abolition in the Northern and Western States from which it will not soon recover. If this plot had temporarily succeeded, and recruits to the insurgents had reached ten or fifteen thousand, what a whirlwind would have swept over the country God only knows where it would have stopped What do we not owe to that Providence that hat thus thwarted the designs of evil men on the very threshold of their dark doings! to Orleans Bulletin.
One step towards this, and now the most obvious step, is the prompt punishment of all the malignant and fanatical agents engaged in any degree in the Harper's Ferry disturbances, and we are in some sort disappointed because the telegraph has not yet in formed us of the result. It may be that the bayonet and the ball have anticipated the work of the gal lows, as to some of the chief agents. For the surviving prisoners, however, there is but one plea for delay or intermission beyond the time required to rig up a hanging-post or tie a rope. The delay will only be justified by the probability of obtaining a full and complete information concerning the age, origin, extent, object and resources of the fiendish conspiracy The telegraphic advices we this day give—obtained at great expense—will inform our readers that the surviving prisoners have, to some degree, made the revelations which alone could demand any postponement of punishment.—Charleston Courier.
Brown and his followers, according to the telegraph, richly deserved their fate. We hardly know whether to brand the old fellow as fool or knave. He appears to have been a good deal of both. Some papers say he is crazy.
The dispatches in to-day’s paper indicate that there was a general insurrectionary organization of which the Harper's Ferry affair was but the beginning. We trust it will be thoroughly exposed, and the leaders in it brought to justice. We are glad to see the President and Secretary of War already moving in the matter.—Springfield Journal.
Will not this sad affair, with its bloody catastrophe, and its distorted features of blind fanaticism and reckless treachery, have the effect of bringing the conservative and more moderate portion of the Republican party of the North to their senses? Will they suffer themselves any longer to be considered as in alliance with such a set of godless agitators and traitors as these? We are rather inclined to think that this Harper's Ferry failure will strengthen and consolidate the national sentiment of the country, and weaken sectionalism.—Frederick (Md.) Herald.
<c04>
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT BROOKLYN.
The characteristic address delivered by Mr. Wendell Phillips at Brooklyn, New York, on Tuesday evening, will hardly take any one here by surprise. Our people have long been familiar with the reckless invocations of passion and crime which he has so long been accustomed to utter, and with his violent attacks upon all social order, at which even the consummate eloquence of the speaker cannot prevent the listener from shuddering. Our people have long been known to detest the course of Mr. Phillips, and they long since learned to estimate correctly the real amount of the influence exerted by him. In most cases, therefore, it makes very little difference what he does or does not say, for the people at large have little interest in inquiring his views upon any given subject, other then a feeling of curiosity as to the light in which it may be represented by his distorted fancy. But the real weight and tendency of the course of Mr. Phillips, as a public man, is a subject to which we shall take occasion to recur, at some future time, simply expressing at present our most earnest abhorrence of the tenor and scope of his harangues.
At the South, however, it is now to be observed that men do not estimate so correctly the real importance of the wild declamations of Mr. Phillips. They have always attached to him an importance a hundred-fold greater then he would claim for himself, and, with their minds excited by the attempt at a practical enforcement of his ferocious doctrines at Harper's Ferry, many may be disposed to listen favorably to those who would now fain represent him as expressing the views of a considerable portion of the Northern people. The better sense of the majority, however, must soon show them that such extraordinary performances as that of which we print a report in another column, have little to do with the real public opinion of the North. Our people listen with delight to the persuasive oratory of the speaker, and are charmed by the exquisite finish of his work,—but they detest his doctrines and repudiate his counsel; his principles are abhorrent to their moral sense, and his unsparing denunciation and scorn even of the honored dead shock, their dearest associations. Like Mr. Corwin, who heard Mr. Phillips at Brooklyn, they listen with interest; but with the speaker's sentiments they have I as little sympathy as is shown in the speech which Mr. Corwin himself made in Brooklyn on the next night.—Boston Daily Advertiser.
But, after all, what is their guilt compared, far instance, with that of Wendell Phillips, to whom no injustice could be done by presuming that he favored Brawn's projected enterprise, and only I now lament his ill-success? How he will mouth about him at the first opportunity which occurs, after the whole sad scene is over! What a martyr, what a hero, what a saint, (of the Beecher Independent order of saintly man, who propagates charity with the rifle's muzzle) will he pronounce him to be! Will not there be solemn ceremonies called to celebrate his obsequies? A funeral oration by Phillips himself, perhaps a statue called for, to, to anticipate that to Horace Mann? Alas, where is Phillips now? Hi is a lawyer—the chief abolition orator—heart and soul engaged in advocating the very purpose which the brainless idiots at Harper's Ferry nave attempted to put into action. Shall he shrink from defending at the bar of justice his compatriot, who has risked his life for the cause? Brown needs the services of counsel, the countenance and support of friends. He is complied to accept such legal aid as the Court assigns, or be without that assistance which every man needs when on trial for his life. The occasion is one of national, of historical interest. Such an opportunity is very unlikely to occur again soon for Mr. Phillips to place his name on record. as a generous, fearless advocate in a cause, for which he professes himself willing to imperil a nation's peace—a people's safety—perhaps himself to become martyr for a principle, held by him as being a truth, above every truth. How could Mr. Phillips, apparently in professional position, in imputed ability, in devotion to his object—in all things the very man for the occasion, miss such an opportunity? How could they let such a golden chance go by? Why did not he—why did not others like-minded, volunteer? Alas, that it should come to this-
O, I do fear thee, Claudio, and I quake.
Lest thou a feverous life shouldn’t entertain,
And six or seven winters more respect
Then a perpetual honor—dare at thou die?
Alarming Condition of the Country—Probable Triumph of Black Republican Revolution.
The rebellion at Harper's Ferry; the public preaching of rank treason, such as Wendell Phillips’s 'Lessons for the Hour,’ delivered in Henry Ward Beeper’s church with tremendous applause; the more covert but not less dangerous inculcation of the same principles and acts by Beecher himself in his sermon, which has gained such popularity as to be reproduced in the Independent of this day; the open-mouthed, out-spoken endorsement of the treason and the traitors by Senator Wilson, and the course of the leading journals of the Republican . press which have commented on the bloody business, either by glorying in it, like Phillips, and exalting ‘Old Brown’ to the rank of a demy-god, or by expressing regret, not for what has been done, but that . it has been done so badly, and that so little success has attended tube performance—all these are portentous signs of the times, well calculated to alarm the conservative classes of the community, as clearly I indicating the rapid progress of revolutionary principles in the North—the gathering and marshalling of thunder clouds from the horizon to the zenith, which threaten to explode in a fearful tempest when they meet the dark lowering masses, charged with electricity, coming from the opposite heavens.
The fact of such a sermon as Beecher's being received with boundless éclat, and the fact of the address of Phillips being not only tolerated, bat applauded to the echo, in the most popular church of ’the City of Churches,’ proclaim more forcibly then volumes of words the danger which is looming up in such formidable dimensions.—N. Y. Herald. 
In this occurrence we are called upon to notice the legitimate tendency of the black republican teachings. We are told that there is an ’irrepressible conflict’ between the North and the South; that between slavery and freedom a war of extermination is to be fought; that the slaves shall rise against their masters aid that they will eventually succeed in their subjugation and destruction. We are told this. It is preached from tube pulpit. It is thundered from the stamp. It is paraded in column upon column in the journals. Men all over the country believe this. It is the black republican doctrine unblushingly announced.—Barnstable Patriot.
Now that it is known that this conspiracy was planned and set on foot by Abolitionists, who designed a bloody crusade against the South, the Christian people of the North should as one man denounce it, and disown all sympathy with the reckless men who embarked their money and influence in such fanatical and wicked schemes-New York Observer.
<c05>
SELECTIONS.
TREATMENT OF THE DRADS AND THE PRISONERS.
People of the North! read the following horrible but voluntary statement made by a correspondent of the Frederick (Maryland) Herald, in regard 'to the
Harper's Ferry tragedy:-
The dead lay on the streets, and in the river, and were subjected to every indignity that a wild and madly excited people could heap upon them.
Curses were freely uttered against them, and kicks and blows inflicted upon them. The huge mulatto that shot Mr. Turner, was lying in the gutter in front of the arsenal, with a terrible wound in his neck, and though dead and gory, vengeance was unsatisfied, and many, as they ran sticks into his wound, or beat him with them, wished that he had a thousand lives, that all of them might be forfeited in expiation and avengement of the foul deed he had committed.
Leman lay upon a rock in the river, and was made a target for the practice of those who had captured Sharp's rifles in the fray. Shot after shot, was fired at him, and when tired of this sport, a man waded out to where he lay, and set him up, in 'grotesque attitudes, and finally pushed him off, and he floated down the stream. His body and that of Thompson, which was also in the water, were subsequently brought to shore, and were buried, as were all of them, except a few which were taken by some of the physicians. It may be thought that there was cruelty and barbarity in this; but the state of the public mind had been frenzied by the outrages of these men; a 1 being outlaws, were regarded as food for carrion birds, and not as human creatures.
The solemn feelings that pervade most hearts at the sight of death, were not awakened—or if awakened, they had been smothered, and all looked upon the grim, grinning and staring corpses as so many wild beasts, justly and righteously slain, as they doubtless had been. The prisoners were kindly cared for, and though not surrounded by the assiduity of friendship, had all the attention that they really needed or deserved. Their wounds were dressed by skillful surgeons, and they were made as comfortable as they could be under the circumstances. On Wednesday evening they were conveyed to the jail of Jefferson, county, under an escort of Marines. Stephens and Brown had to be taken in a wagon, but the negro Green and Coppice, being unhurt, walked between a file of soldiers, followed by hundreds of excited men, exclaiming ’lynch them;’ but Governor Wise, who was standing on the platform of the cars, said: 0h it would be cowardly to do so now;—and the crowd fell back, and the prisoners were safely placed on the train. Stephens was placed in the bottom of the cars, being unable to sit up. Brown was propped up on a seat with pillows; and Coppice and Green seated in the middle of them; tube former was evidently much frightened, but looked calm, while the latter was the very impersonation of fear. His nerves were twitching, his eyes wild and almost bursting from their sockets, his whole manner indicating the dreadful apprehensions that filled his mind. This fellow was a member of Congress, under the Provisional Government, had been very daring while guarding the Arsenal, and very impudent while in the engine house, but when the Marines entered it, he jumped back among the imprisoned, and cried out that he was a prisoner, bat Mr. Washington thrust him forward, and informed the besiegers that he was one of the guerrillas, upon which a stab was made at him, but missed him, and he still lives to expiate his guilt on the gallows.
CAPT. JOHN BBOWN'8 MONOMA1TCA-
The Chicago Press, in noticing the Virginia insurrectionary attempt, thus speaks of Osawatomie Brown:-
‘Since the death of his son Frederick, who was shot down at his own door in Kansas by a Missouri mob ten fold more revengeful and bloody then that which now fills Virginia with terror, and since the old man witnessed. On the same occasion, the destruction of the property he had been a life-time in accumulating, he has been a monomaniac. He had supposed himself to be divinely appointed to free all the American slaves by some violent and decisive movement, the nature of which we do not know that he ever revealed. Often, we are told, during the Kansas disturbances, he would retire to a secluded place at a distance from his camp, and there (to use his own words) wrestle with the Almighty for hours, to wring from him the aid which be demanded for the accomplishment of the work to which he thought himself appointed by heavenly favor. His talk for yean to his friends and intimates has been of his commission sealed with the blood of tube Savior, by which he was directed in the path be was about to follow. He has entertained no doubt that his life was to be prolonged until he could see the shackles stricken off from every slave in the land; nor has he had a doubt that, by his agency, as the instrument of God, specially entrusted with: the work, every bondman was to be freed. This delusion has been regarded as harmless, and since he passed out of public view, it has, we suppose, been forgotten even by his friends. That he has acted upon the murderous impulse which the violation of his own household roused within him—that his mania has overpowered his reason, and forced him into the commission of a great crime—the history of this Harper's Ferry movement is sufficient proof. We do not wonder, knowing him, from the accounts given by others, as well as we do, that he engaged in an enterprise of such criminality and folly. We are only surprised that he could have found any white man out of slavery weak enough to have yielded to his crazy suggestions, and aided him in his hair-brained attempt. He will doubtless be called upon to lay down his life in atonement for his folly; and though our conviction that he is demented is strengthened by this resent extent, we can but say that death cannot claim him too soon.’(!!)
From the Rochester Democrat and American.
LETTER FROM FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
CANADA WEST, Oct. 31, 1859.
MR. EDITOR: I notice that the telegraph makes Mr. Cook (one of the unfortunate insurgents at Harper's Ferry, and now in the hands of the thing calling itself the Government of Virginia, but which in fact is but an organized conspiracy by one party of the people against the other and weaker,) denounce me as a coward—and to assert that I promised to be present at the Harper's Ferry Insurrection. This is certainly a very grave impeachment, whether viewed is its bearings upon friends or upon fees, and you will not think it strange that should take a some what serious notice of it. Having no acquaintance whatever with Mr. Cook, and never having exchanged a word with him about the Harper's Ferry insurrection, I am induced to doubt that he could have used the language concerning me which the wires attribute to him. The lightning, when speaking for itself, is among the most direct, relia-
<c06>
ble and truthful of things but when speaking for the terror-stricken slave holders as Harper's Ferry, it has been made the swiftest of liars. Under their nimble and trembling fingers, it magnified seventeen men into seven hundred-and has since filled the columns of the of the New York Herald for have with, terminable contradictions. But, assuming that it has told only the simple truth, as to the savings of Mr. Cook in this instance, I have this answer to make to my accuser: Mr. Cook may be perfectly right in denouncing me as a coward. I have not one word to say in defence or vindication of my character for courage. I have always been more distinguished for running then fighting and, tried the Harper's Ferry insurrection test, I am most miserably deficient in courage—even more so then Cook, when he deserted his old brave captain, and field to the mountains. To this extent Mr. Cook is entirely right, and will meet no contradiction from are or from anybody else. But wholly, grievously, and most unaccountably wrong is Mr. Cook, when he asserts that I promised to be present in person at the Harper's Ferry insurrection. Of whatever other imprudence and indiscretion I may have been guilty, I have never made a promise so rash and wild as this. The taking of Harper's Ferry was a measure never encouraged by my word or by my vote, at any time or place; my wisdom or my cowardice has not only kept me from Harper's Ferry, but has equally kept me from-making any promise to go there. I desire to be quite emphatic here—for of all guilty men, he is the guiltiest who lures his fellow-men to an undertaking of this sort, under promise of assistance, which he afterwards fails to render. I therefore declare that there is no man living, and no man dead, who if living, could truthfully say that I ever promised him or anybody else, either conditionally or otherwise, that I would be present in person at the Harper's Ferry insurrection. My field of labor for the abolition of slavery has not extended to an attack upon tube United States arsenal. In the teeth of tube documents already published, and of those which hereafter may be published, I affirm no man connected with that insurrection, from its noble and heroic leader down, can connect my name with a single broken promise of any sort whatever. So much I deem it proper to away negatively.
The time for a full statement of what I know, and of all I know, of this desperate but sublimely disinterested effort to emancipate the slaves of Maryland and Virginia, from their cruel taskmasters, has not yet come, and may never come. In the denial which I have now made, my motive is more respectful consideration for the opinions of the slave's friends, then from my fear of being made an accomplice in the general conspiracy against Slavery. I am ever ready to write, speak, publish, organize, combine, and even to conspire against Slavery, when there u a reasonable hope for success. Men, who live by robbing their fellow-men of their labor and liberty, have forfeited their right to know anything of the thoughts, feelings, or purposes of those whom they rob and plunder. They have by the single act of slaveholding voluntarily placed themselves beyond the laws or justice and honor, and have become only fitted for companionship with thieves and pirates—the common enemies of God and of all mankind. While it shall be considered right to protect oneself against thieves, burglars, robbers and assassins, and to slay a wild beast in the act of devouring his human prey, it can never be wrong for the imbruted and whip-scarred slaves, or their friends, to hunt, harass and even strike down the traffickers in human flesh. If anybody is disposed to think less of me on account of this sentiment; or because I may have had a knowledge of what was about to occur, and did not assume the base and detestable character of an informer, he air a man whose good or bad opinion of me may be equally repugnant and despicable. Entertaining this sentiment, I may be asked, why I did not join John Brown—the noble old hero whose one right hand has shaken the foundation of the American Union, and whose ghost will haunt the bed-chambers of all the born and unborn slaveholders of Virginia through all their generations, filling them with alarm and consternation! My answer to this has already been given, at least, impliedly given: The tools to those that can use them. Let every man work for the abolition of Slavery in his own way. I would help all, and hinder none. My position in regard to the Harper's Ferry insurrection may be easily inferred from these remarks, and I shall be glad if those papers which have spoken of me in connection with it would find room for this brief statement.
I have no apology for keeping out of the way of those gentlemanly United States Marshal, who are said to have paid Rochester a somewhat protracted visit lately, with a view to an interview with me. A government recognizing the validity of the Dared Scott decision, at such a time as this, is not likely to have away very charitable feelings towards me; and if I am to meet its representatives . I prefer to do so, at least, noon equal terms. If I have committed any offence against Society. I have done so on the soil of the State of New York, and I should be perfectly willing there to be arraigned before as impartial jury; but I have quite insuperable objections to being caught by the hands at Mr. Buchanan, and ’bagged’ by GOV. Wise. For this appears to be the arrangement. Buchanan does the fighting and hunting, and Wise ’bags’ the game.
Some reflections may be made upon my leaving on a tour to England, just at this time. I have only to say, that my going to that country has been rather delayed then hastened by the insurrection at Harper's Ferry. All knew that I had intended to leave here in the first week of November. 
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
The Hon, C L. Vallandigham, Democratic member of Congress from Ohio, who was one of Senator Mason's inquisitorial parties to draw from Capt. Brown all the secrets pertaining to his uprising, concludes a letter on the subject in the following strain:
Here was folly and madness. He believed and acted upon the faith which for twenty years has been so persistently taught in every form through-out the Free States, and which is but another mode of the statement of the doctrine of the irrepressible conflict —that slavery and the three hundred and seventy thousand slaveholders of the South are only tolerated, and that the millions, of slaves and non-slaveholding white men are ready and willing to rise against the oligarchy, needing only a lead and deliverer. The conspiracy was the natural and necessary consequence of the doctrine proclaimed every day, year in and year out, by the apostles of Abolition. But Brown was earnest practical; he proposed no mild works in his faith, reckless of murder, treason, and every other crime. This was his madness and folly. He perished justly and miserably-an insurgent and a felon; but guiltier then he, and with his blood upon their hands, are the false and cowardly prophets and teachers of Abolition.’
This Vallandigham is manifestly as mean and venomous a creature as even yet crawled in the presence and performed the dirty work of the southern slaveocracy.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United states constitution is’ a covenant with death, and an agreement with hall.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, whom, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rifts; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding a man an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWEREVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly then they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has cone far looking it fully, dispassionately, and with-rankly and Christian resolution. ... No blessing of the Union is a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to he to perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that is can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the Free States are tearing-WILLIAN ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the New York Times.
LECTURE OF WENDELL PHILLIPS-'THE LESSON OF THE HOUR.'
The Course of Lectures instituted by the young men of Rev. H. Ward Beecher's congregation in Brooklyn had announced upon its programme the name of Mr. Wendell Phillips of Boston as the speaker for last evening. Throwing aside a lecture which he had been for sometime preparing upon a literary theme, Mr. Phillips a few days ago sought dispensation from the formality of a lecture, and permission to substitute for it a stump-speech on the prominent topic of the hour. The permission having been readily accorded, last evening saw the walls of the Plymouth Church, accustomed as they are to crowds, crowded more than is their custom; the audience, in fact, being as thronged and eager as ever waited upon tube eloquence of the noted orator.
Mr. Phillips, upon his appearance, was received with vehement applause. When it had subsided, he said:-
Ladies and Gentlemen-I speak with the utmost sincerity when I say that I cannot expect-speaking from this platform, and to you-to say anything on the vital question of the hour, which you have not already heard. I should not, in that sense, willingly have come here; but, when a great question divides the community, all men are called upon to vote, and I feel to-night that I am simply giving my vote. I am only saying 'ditto' to what you hear from this platform day after day. And I would willingly have avoided, ladies and gentlemen, even at this last moment, borrowing this hour from you. I tried to do better by you. Like the Irishman in the story, I offered to hold the hat of Hon. Thomas Corwin, of Ohio, (enthusiastic applause,) if he would only make a speech, and, most unaccountably, I am sorry to say, he declined this generous offer. (Laughter.) So I must fulfill my appointment, and deliver my little lecture myself.
ï¿½The Lesson of the Hour? 'I think the lesson of the hour is insurrection. [Sensation.] Insurrection of thought always precedes the insurrection of arms. The last twenty years have been insurrection of thought. We seem to be entering on a new phase of the great moral American struggle. It seems to me that we have never accepted, as Americans-we have never accepted our own civilization. We have held back from the inference which we ought to have drawn from the admitted principles which underlie our life. We have all the timidity of the old world, when we bend our eyes upon ideas of the people: we shrink back, trying to save ourselves from the inevitable might of the thoughts of the millions. The idea of civilization on the other aide of the water seems to be, that man is created to be taken care of by somebody else. God did not leave him fit to go alone; he is in everlasting pupilage to the wealthy and the educated. The religious or the comfortable classes are an ever-present probate court to take care of him. The Old World, therefore, has always distrusted the average conscience- the common sense of the millions.
It seems to me the idea of our civilization-underlying all American life-is that we do not need any protector. We need no safeguard. Not only the inevitable, but the best, power this side of the ocean, is the unfettered average common sense of the masses. Institutions, as we are accustomed to call them, are but pasteboard, and intended to be against the thought of the street. Statutes are mere milestones, telling how far yesterday's thought had traveled; and the talk of the sidewalk to-day is the law of the land. Somewhat briefly stated, such is the idea of American civilization; uncompromising faith-in the average selfishness, if you choose- of all classes, neutralizing each other, and tending toward that fair play that Saxons love. It seems to me that, on all questions, we dread thought; we shrink behind something; we acknowledge ourselves unequal to the sublime faith of our fathers; and the exhibition of the last twenty years and of the present state of public affairs are, that Americans dread to look their real position in the face. 
They say in Ireland that every Irishman thinks that he was born sixty days too late-(laughter) -and the world owes him sixty days. The consequence is, when a trader says such a thing is so much for cash, the Irishman thinks cash means to him a bill of sixty days. (Laughter.) So it is with Americans. They have no idea of absolute right. They were born since 1787, and absolute right means the truth diluted by a strong decoction of the Constitution of'89. They are all in that atmosphere; they don't want to sail outside of it; they do not attempt to reason outside of it. For the last twenty years, there has been going on, more or less heeded and understood in various States, an insurrection of ideas against the limited, cribbed, cabined, isolated American civilization, interfering to restore absolute right-not only that, but the recognition and conviction of absolute truth. If you said to an American, for instance, anything in regard to temperance, slavery, or anything else-in the course of the last twenty years-anything about a principle, he ran back instantly to the safety of such a principle-to the possibility of its existing with a peculiar sect, with a church, with a party, with a constitution, with a law. He had not yet raised himself unto the level of daring to trust justice, which is the preliminary consideration to trusting the people; for whether native depravity be true or not, it is a truth, attested by all history, that the race gravitates towards justice, and that indulging all differences of opinion, there is an inherent, essential tendency to the great English principle of fair-play at the bottom of our natures. (Loud applause.) The Emperor Nicholas, it is said, ordered Col. Whistler, one of his Engineers, to lay down for him a road for a railway from St. Petersburg to Moscow, and presently the engineers brought him in a large piece of fine card-paper, on which was laid down, like a snake, the designed path for the iron locomotive between the two capitals. 'What's that?' Said Nicholas. 'That's the best road,' was the reply. 'What do you make it crooked for?' 'Why, we turn this way to touch this great city, and to the left to reach that immense mass of people, and to the right again to suit the business of that district.' 'Yes.' The Emperor turned the card over, made a new dot for Moscow and another for St. Petersburg, took a ruler, made a straight line, and said, 'Build me that road.'(Laughter.)
ï¿½But what will become of that depot of trade, of that town?' ï¿½I don't know; they most look out for themselves.'[Cheers.] And the emperor of omnipotent Democracy says of slavery, or of a church, 'This is justice, and that is iniquity; the track of God's thunderbolt goes in a straight line from one to the other, and the church that cannot stand it must stand out of the way.'[Cheers.] Now our object for twenty years has been to educate the mass of the American people up to that level of moral life, which shall recognize that free speech carried to that extent is God's normal school, educating the American mind, throwing upon it the grave responsibility of deciding a great question, and by means of that responsibility, lifting it to the higher level of an intellectual and moral life. Now scholarship stands on one side, and, like your Brooklyn Eagle, says, 'This is madness!' Well, poor man! He thinks so! [Laughter.] The very difficulty of the whole matter is that he does think so, and this normal school that we open! Is for him. His seat is on the lowest end of the lowest bench. [Laughter and applause.] But he only represents that very chronic distrust which pervades all that class. It is the timid, educated mind of these Northern States. Anaphases went into the forum at Athens, and heard a case argued by the great minds of the day, and saw the vote. He walked out into the streets, and somebody said to him, 'What think you of Athenian liberty?' ï¿½I think,' said he, 'wise men argue causes, and fools decide them.' Just what the timid scholar two thousand years ago said in the streets of Athens, that which calls itself the scholarship of the United States says to-day of popular agitation-that it lets wise men argue questions, and fools decide them. But that early Athens, where fools decided the gravest questions of polity and right and wrong, where it was not safe to be just, and when property might be wrong from you by the prejudices of the mob to-morrow, which you had garnered up by the thrift and industry of to-day; that very Athens invented art, and sounded for us the depths of philosophy; God lent to it the noblest intellects and it flashes to-day the torch that gilds yet the mountain peaks of the old world; while Egypt, the hunker conservative of antiquity, where nobody dared to differ from the priest, or to be wiser than his grandfather-where men pretended to be alive, though swaddled in the grave-clothes of creed and custom at close as their mummies in linen -is hid in the tomb it inhabited; and the intellect which Athens has created for us digs to-day those ashes to find out what hunkers knew and did. [Cheers.] Now my idea of American civilization
<c02>
is that it is a second part, a repetition of that same sublime confidence in the public conscience and the public thought that made the groundwork of Grecian Democracy.
Well, we have been talking for twenty years. There have been various evidences of growth in education; I will tell you of one. The first evidence that a sinner convicted of sin, and too blind or too lazy to reform-the first evidence that be can give that his nature has been touched, is that he becomes a hypocrite; he has the grace to pretend to be something. Now, the first evidence that the American people gave of that commencing grace of hypocrisy was this: in 1833, when we commenced the Anti-Slavery agitation, the papers talked about slavery, bondage, American slavery, boldly, frankly and bluntly. In a few years it sounded hard; it had a grating effect; the hardest throat of the hardest Democrat felt it as it came out. So they spoke of the 'patriarchal institution,'(laughter,) then of the 'domestic institution,'(continued laughter,) and then of the 'peculiar institution,'(laughter)-and in a year or two it got beyond that. Mississippi published a report from her Senate, in which she went a stride beyond, and described it as 'economic subordination.'(Renewed laughter.) A Southern Methodist bishop was taken to task for holding slaves in reality, but his Methodist brethren were not courageous enough to say 'slaves' right out in meeting, and so they said the bishop must get rid of his 'impediment'-(loud laughter)-and the late Mr. Rufus Choate, in the last Democratic canvass in my own State, undertaking and necessitated to refer to the institutions of the South, and knowing that his old New England lips, that had spoken so many glorious free truths in the twenty years that were ended, could not foul their last days with the hated word, phrased it 'a different type of industry. 'Now, hypocrisy-why,' it is the homage that Vice renders to Virtue. 'When men begin to get weary of capital punishment, they banish the gallows inside the jail-yard, and do not let anybody see it without a special card of invitation from the sheriff. And so they have banished slavery into pet phrases and fancy flash-words. If you should dig our Egyptian Hunkers up from the grave into which it is rapidly sinking, we should have to get a commentator of the true German blood to find out what all these queer, odd, peculiar, imaginative paraphrases mean in this middle of the Nineteenth Century. That was one evidence of progress.
I believe in moral suasion. I believe the age of bullets is over. I believe the age of ideas in come. I think that is the preaching of our country. The old Hondo dreamed, you know, that he saw the human race led out to its varied fortune. First, he saw men bitted and curbed, and the reins went back to an iron hand. But his dream changed on and on, until at last he saw men led by reins that came from the brain, and went back into an unseen hand. It was the type of governments; the first a government of despotism, palpable iron; and the last our government, a government of brains, a government of ideas. I believe in it-in public opinion.
Yet, let me say, in passing, that I think you can make a better use of iron than forging it into chains. If you must have the metal, put it into Sharpe's rifles. It is a great deal better used that way than in fetters-a great deal better than in a clumsy statue of a mock great man, for hypocrites to kneel down and worship in a State-house yard. [Loud and renewed cheers and great hissing.] I am so unused to hisses lately that I have forgotten what I had to say. [Laughter and hisses.] I only know I meant what I did say.
My idea is public opinion, literature, education, as governing elements.
But some men seem to think that our institutions are necessarily safe because we have free schools and cheap books, and a public opinion that controls. But that is no evidence of safety. India and China have had schools, and a school system almost identical with that of Massachusetts, for fifteen hundred years. And books are as cheap in Central and Northern Asia as they are in New York. But they have not secured liberty, nor secured a controlling public opinion to either nation. Spam for three centuries had municipalities and town governments, as independent and self-supporting, and as representative of thought, as New England or New York has. But that did not save Spain. De Tocqueville says that fifty years before the great revolution, public opinion was as omnipotent in France as it is to-day, but it did not save France. You cannot save men by machinery. What India and France and Spain wanted was live men, and that is what we want to-day; men who are willing to look their own destiny, and their own functions, and their own responsibilities in the face. ï¿½Grant me to see, and Ajax asks no more, 'was the prayer that the great poet put into the lips of his hero in the darkness that overspread the Grecian camp. All we want of American citizens is the opening of their own eyes, and seeing things as they are. To the intelligent, thoughtful and determined gaze of twenty millions of Christian people, there is nothing-no institution wicked and powerful enough to be capable of standing against it. In Keats's beautiful poem of 'Lamia,' a young man had been led captive by a phantom girl, and was the slave of her beauty, until the old teacher came in and fixed his thoughtful eye upon the figure, and it vanished, and the pupil started up himself again.
You see the great Commonwealth of Virginia fitly represented by a pyramid standing upon its apex. A Connecticut born man entered at one corner of her dominions, and fixed his cold grey eye upon the government of Virginia, and it almost vanished in his very gaze. For it seems that Virginia asked leave 'to be' of John Brown at Harperï¿½s Ferry. (Cheers and applause.) Connecticut has sent out many a school-master to the other thirty States; but never before so grand a teacher as that Litchfield-born school-master at Harper's Ferry, writing upon the Natural Bridge in the face of nations his simple copy: 'Resistance to Tyrants is obedience to God.'(Loud cheers.)
I said that the lesson of the hour was insurrection. I ought not to apply that word to John Brown of Osawatomie, for there was no insurrection in his case. It is a great mistake to call him an insurgent. This principle that I have endeavored so briefly to open to you, of absolute right and wrong, states what? Just this: 'Commonwealth of Virginia!' There is no such thing. No civil society, no government can exist, except on the basis of the willing submission of all its citizens, and by the performance of the duty of rendering equal justice between man and man.
Everything that calls itself a Government, and refuses that duty, or has not that assent, is no Government. It is only a pirate ship. Virginia, the Commonwealth of Virginia! She is only a chronic insurrection. I mean exactly what I say. I am weighing my words now. She is a pirate ship, and John Brown sails the sea a Lord High Admiral of the Almighty, with his commission to sink even pirate he meets on God's ocean of the nineteenth century. (Cheers and applause.) I mean literally and exactly what I say. In God's world there are no majorities, no minorities; one, on God's side, is a majority. You have often heard here, doubtless,' and I need not tell you the ground of morays. The rights of that one man are as sacred as those of the miscalled Commonwealth of Virginia. Virginia is only another Algiers. The barbarous horde who gag each other, imprison women for teaching children to read, prohibit the Bible, sell men on the auction-blocks, abolish marriage, condemn half their women to prostitution, and devote themselves to the breeding of human beings for sale, is only a larger and blacker Algiers. The only prayer of a true man for such is,' Gracious Heaven! unless they repent, send soon their Vermouth and Decatur 'John Brown has twice as much right to hang Gov. Wise as Gov. Wise has to hang him. (Cheers and hisses.) You see I am talking of that absolute essence of things that lives in the sight of the Eternal and the Infinite: not as men Judge it in the rotten morals of the nineteenth century, among a herd of States that calls itself an empire because it weaves cotton and sells slaves. What I say is this: Harper's Ferry was the only government in that vicinity. Respecting the trial, Virginia, true to herself, has shown exactly the same haste that the pirate does when he tries a man on deck, and runs him up to the yard-arm. Unconsciously she is consistent. Now, you do not think this to-day, some of you, perhaps. But I tell you what absolute History shall judge of these forms and phantoms of ours. John Brown began his life, his active life, in Kansas. The South planted that seed; it reaps the first fruit now. Twelve yean ago, the great men in Washington, the Websterï¿½s and the Clays, planted the Mexican war; and they reaped their appropriate fruit in Gen. Taylor and Gen. Pierce pushing them from their statesmen's stools. The South planted the seeds of violence in Kansas, and taught peaceful Northern men familiarity with the
<c03>
bowie-knife and revolver. They planted 999 seeds, and this is the first one that has flowered; this is the first drop of the coming shower. People do me the honor to say, in some of the Western papers, that this is traceable to some teachings of mine. It is too much honor to such as me. Gladly, if it were not fulsome vanity, would I clutch this laurel of having any share in the great resolute daring of that man who flung himself against an empire in behalf of justice and liberty? They were not the bravest men who fought at Saratoga and Yorktown in the war of 1776. O! No; it was rather those who flung themselves, at Lexington, few and feeble, against the embattled ranks of an empire till then thought irresistible. Elderly men in powdered wigs and red velvet smoothed their ruffles and cried' madmen.' Full-fed custom-house men said,' A pistols hot against Gibraltar!' But Capt. Ingraham, under the stars and stripes, dictating terms to the fleet of the Caesars, was only the echo of that Lexington gun. Harper's Ferry is the Lexington of to-day. Up to this moment, Brown's life has been one unmixed success. Prudence, skill, courage, thrift, knowledge of his time, knowledge of his opponents, undaunted daring in the face of the nation-he had all these. He was the man who could leave Kansas, and go into Missouri, and take eleven men and give them to liberty, and bring them off on the horses which he carried with him, and two which he took as tribute from their masters in order to facilitate escape. Then, when be had passed his human protï¿½gï¿½s from the vulture of the United States to the safe shelter of the English lion, this is the brave, frank and sublime trustier in God's right and absolute justice, that entered his name in the city of Cleveland, 'John Brown, of Kansas,' and advertised there two horses for sale, and stood in front of the auctioneer's stand, notifying all bidders of the defect in the title. (Laughter.) But he added with nonchalance, when be told the story, 'They brought a very excellent price.' (Laughter.) This is the man who, in the face of the nation, avowing his right, and endeavoring by what strength he had in behalf of the wronged, goes down to Harper's Ferry to follow up his work, well, men say he failed. Every man has his Moscow. Suppose he did fail, every man meets his, Waterloo at last. There are two kinds of defeat, whether in chains or in laurels, LIBERTY knows nothing but victories. Bunker Hill soldiers call a defeat; but Liberty dates from it, though Warren lay dead on the field. Men say the attempt did not succeed. No man can command success. Whether it was well planned, and deserved to succeed, we shall be able to decide when Brown is free to tell us all he knows. Suppose he did fail, he has done a great deal still. Why, this is a decent country to live in now. (Laughter and cheers.) Actually, in this Sodom of ours, seventeen men have been found ready to die for an idea. God be thanked for John Brown that he has discovered or created them. (Cheers.) I should feel some pride, if I was in Europe now, in confessing that I was an American. (Applause.) We have redeemed the long infamy of twenty years of subservience. But look back a bit. Is there anything new about this? Nothing at all. It is the natural result of anti-slavery teaching. For one, I accept it; I expected it. I cannot say that I prayed for it; I cannot say that I hoped for it. But at the same time, no sane man has looked upon this matter for twenty years, and supposed that we could go through this great moral convulsion, the great classes of society clashing and jostling against each other like frigates in a storm, and that there would not be such scenes as these.
Why, in 1835 it was the other way. Then it was my bull that gored your ox. Then ideas came in conflict, and men of violence, and men who had not made up their minds to wait for the slow conversion of conscience, men who trusted in their own right hands, men who believed in bowie-knives-why, such sacked the city of Philadelphia, such made New York to be governed by a mob; Boston saw its Mayor suppliant and kneeling to the chief of broad-cloth in broad daylight. It was all on that side. The natural result, the first result of this starting of ideas, is like people who get half awaked, and use the first weapons that appear to them. The first developing and unfolding of national life were the mobs of 1835. People said it served us right, we had no right to the luxury of speaking (our own minds; it was too expensive; these lavish, luxurious persons walking about here, and actually saying what they think! Why, it was like speaking loud in the midst of the avalanches. To say' Liberty' in a loud tone, the Constitution of 1789 might come down-it would not do. But now things have changed. We have been talking thirty years. Twenty years we have talked everywhere, under all circumstances; we have been mobbed out of great cities, and pelted out of little ones; we have been abused by great men and by little papers. (Laughter and applause.) What is the result? The tables have been turned; it is your bull that has gored my ox now. And men that still believe in violence, the five points of whose faith are the fist, the bowieknife, fire, poison and the pistol, are ranged on the side of Liberty, and, unwilling to wait for the slow but sure steps of thought, lay on God's altar the best they have. You cannot expect to put a real Puritan Presbyterian, as John Brown is-a regular Cromwellian dog up from two centuries-in the midst of our New England civilization, that dare not say its soul is its own, nor proclaim that it is wrong to sell a man at auction, and not have him show himself as he is. Put a hound in the presence of a deer, and he springs at his throat if he is a true bloodhound. Put a Christian in the presence of a sin, and he will spring at its throat if he is a true Christian. And so into an acid we might throw white matter, but unless it is chalk, it will not produce agitation. So, if in a world of sinners you were to put American Christianity, it would be calm as oil. But put one Christian like John Brown of Osawatomie, and he makes the whole crystallize into right and wrong, and marshal themselves on one side or the other. And God makes him the text, and all he asks of our comparatively cowardly lips is to preach the sermon, and say to the American people that, whether that old man succeeded in a worldly sense or not, he stood a representative of law, of government, of right, of justice, of religion, and they were pirates that gathered about him, and sought to wreak vengeance by taking his life. The banks of the Potomac, doubly dear now to History and to Man! The dust of Washington rests there; and History will see forever on that river-side the brave old man on his pallet, whose dust, when God calls him hence, the Father of his country would be proud to make room for beside his own. But if Virginia tyrants dare hang him, after this mockery of a trial, it will take two more Washingtonï¿½s at least to make the name of the State anything but abominable to the ages that come after. (Applause and hisses.) Well, I say what I really think (cheers and cries of 'good,' 'good.') George Washington was a great man. Yet I say what I really think. And I know, ladies and gentlemen, that, educated as you have been by the experience of the last ten years here, you would have thought me the silliest as well as the most cowardly man in the world if I should have come, with my twenty years behind me, and talked about anything else tonight except that great example which one man has set us on the banks of the Potomac. You expected, of course, that I should tell you my opinion of it.
I value this element that Brown has introduced into American politics for another reason. The South is a great power-no cowards in Virginia, (Laughter.) It was not cowardice. (Laughter.) , Now, I try to speak very plain, but you will misunderstand me. There is no cowardice in Virginia. The South is not cowards. The lunatics in the Gospel were not cowards when they said, 'Art thou come to torment us before the time?'(Laughter.) They were brave enough, but they saw afar off-They saw the tremendous power that was entering into that charmed circle; they knew its inevitable victory. Virginia did not tremble at an old gray headed man at Harper's Ferry; they trembled at a John Brown in every man's own conscience. He had been there many years, and, like that terrify scene which Beck ford has drawn for us in his Hal of Ellis, where all ran around, each man with an incurable wound in his bosom, and agreed not to speak of it, so the South has been running up and down its political and social life, and every man keeps his right hand pressed on the secret and incurable sore, with an understood agreement, in Church and State, that it never shall be mentioned, for fear the great ghastly fabric shall come to pieces at the talismanic word. Brown uttered it, and the whole machinery trembled to its very base.
I value that movement. Did you ever see a blacksmith shoe a restless horse? If you have, you have seen him take a small cord, and tie his upper lip. If you ask him what he does it for, he will tell you he does it to give the beast something to think of.-(Laughter.) Now, the South has extensive schemes.
<c04>
She grasps with one hand a Mexico, and with the other she dictates terms to Church. She imposes conditions on State; she buys up Webster with a little, and Everett with nothing. (Great laughter and applause.) John Brown has given her something; else to think of. He has turned her attention inwardly. He has taught her that there has been created a new element in this Northern mind; that it is not merely the thinker, that it is not merely the editor, that it is not merely the moral reformer, but the idea has pervaded all classes of society.- Call them madmen if you will. Hard to tell who's mad. The world says one man is mad. John Brown said the same of the Governor. You remember the madman in Edinburgh. A friend asked him what he was there for. ï¿½Well,' said he,' they said at home that I was mad; and I said I was not; but they had the majority.'(Laughter.) Just so it is in regard to John Brown. The nation says, He is mad. I appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober; I appeal from the American people drunk with cotton and the New York Observer (loud and long laughter) to the American people fifty years hence, when the light of civilization has had more time to penetrate, when self-interest has been rebuked by the world rising and giving its verdict on these great questions, when it is not a small band of Abolitionists but the civilization of the nineteenth century that undertakes to enter the arena, and discuss its last great reform. When that day comes, what shall be thought of these first martyrs, who teach us how to live and how to die?
Suppose John Brown had not stayed at Harper's Ferry; suppose on that momentous Monday night, when the excited imaginations of two thousand Charlestown people had enlarged him and his little band into 400 white men and 200 blacks, he had, vanished, and when the gallant troops arrived there, 2000 strong, they had found nobody! The mountains would have been peopled with enemies; the Alleghenies would have heaved with insurrection! You never would have convinced Virginia that all Pennsylvania was not armed and on the hills. Virginia has not slept sound since Nat Turner had an insurrection in 1831, and she bids fair never to have a nap now. (Laughter.) For this is not an insurrection; this is the penetration of a different element. Mark you, it is not the oppressed race rising. Recollect history. There never was a race held in chains that absolutely vindicated its own liberty but one. There never was a serf nor a slave whose own sword cut off his own chain but one.-Blue-eyed, light-haired Anglo-Saxon, it was not our race. We were serfs for three centuries, and we waited till commerce and Christianity, and a different law, had melted our fetters. We were crowded down into villainies which crushed out our manhood so thoroughly that we hadn't vigor enough to redeem ourselves. Neither did France, neither did Spain, neither did the Northern nor the Southern races of Europe have that bright spot on their escutcheon, that they put an end to their slavery.-Blue-eyed, haughty, contemptuous Anglo-Saxons, it was the black-the only race in the record of history that ever, after a century of oppression, retained the vigor to write the charter of its emancipation with its own hand in the blood of the dominant race. Despised, calumniated, slandered Son Domingo is the only instance in history where a race, with indestructible love of justice, serving a hundred years of oppression, rose up under their own leader, and with their own hands abolished slavery on their own soil. Wait, garrulous, vainglorious, boasting Saxon, till we have done as much, before we talk of the cowardice of the black race.
The slaves of our country have not risen, but, as in all other cases, redemption will come from the interference of a wiser, higher, more advanced civilization on its exterior. It is the universal record of history, and ours is a repetition of the same scene in the drama. We have awakened at last the enthusiasm of both classes-those that act from impulse, and those that act from calculation. It is a libel on the Yankee to say that it includes the whole race, when you say that if you put a dollar on the other side of hell, the Yankee will spring for it at any risk; (laughter,) for there is an element even in the Yankee blood that obeys ideas-there is an impulsive, enthusiastic aspiration-something left to us from the old Puritan stock-that which made England what she was two centuries ago-that which is fated to give the closest grapple with the Slave Power to-day. This is an invasion by outside power. Civilization in 1600 crept along our shores, now planting her foot, and then retreating-now gaining a foothold and then receding before barbarism- till at last came Jamestown and Plymouth, and then thirty States. Harper's Ferry is perhaps one of Raleigh's or Oswaldï¿½s colonies, vanishing and to he swept away; bye-and-bye will come the immortal one hundred and Plymouth Rock, with 'MANIFEST DESTINY' written by God's hand on their banner, and the right of unlimited 'ANNEXATION' granted by heaven itself. 
It is the lesson of the age. The first cropping out of it is in such a man as John Brown. He did not measure his means. He was not thrifty as to his method; he did not calculate closely enough, and he was defeated. What is defeat? Nothing but education-nothing but the first step to something better. All that is wanted is that this public opinion shall not creep around like a servile coward, and unsought, but corrupt, disordered, insane public opinion proclaim that Gov. Wise, because he says he is a Governor, is a Governor, that Virginia is a State because she says she is so.
Thank God, I am not a citizen. You will remember, all of you, citizens of the United States, that there was not a Virginia gun fired at John Brown. Hundreds of well-armed Maryland and Virginia; troops that went there, never dared to pull a trigger. You shot him! Sixteen marines, to whom you pay $8 a month-your own representatives.-When the disturbed State could not stand on her own legs for trembling, you went there and strengthened the feeble knees, and held up the palsied hand. Sixteen men, with the Vulture of the Union above them (sensation)-your representatives! It was the covenant with death and agreement with hell, which you call the Union of thirty States, that took the old man by the throat with a pirate hand; and it will be the disgrace of our civilization if a gallows is ever erected in Virginia that bears his body. ï¿½The most resolute man I ever saw, 'says Governor Wise; 'the most daring, the coolest. I would trust his truth about any question. The sincerest! ï¿½Sincerity, courage, resolute daring-Virginia has nothing, nothing for those qualities but a scaffold!-(Applause.) In her broad dominion she can only afford him six feet for a grave! God help the Commonwealth that bids such welcome to the noblest qualities that can grace poor human nature! Yet that is the acknowledgment of Gov. Wise himself!
They say it cost the officers and persons in responsible positions more effort to keep hundreds of startled soldiers from shooting the five prisoners sixteen marines had made, than it cost those marines to take the Armory itself. Soldiers and civilians-both alike-only a mob fancying itself a government! And mark you; I have said they were not a government. They not only are not a government, but they have not even the remotest idea of what a Movement is. (Laughter.) They do not begin to have the faintest conception of what a civilized government is. Here is a man arraigned before a jury, or about to be. The State of Virginia, as she calls herself, is about to try him. The first step in that trial is a jury; the second is a judge; and at the head stands the Chief Executive of the State, who is to put his hand to the death-warrant before it can be executed; and yet that very Executive, who, according to the principles of the sublimes chapter in Algernon Sidney's immortal book, is bound by the very responsibility that rests on him, to keep his mind impartial as to the guilt of the person arraigned, hastens down to Richmond, hurries to the platform, and proclaims to the assembled Commonwealth of Virginia, 'The man is a murderer, and ought to be hung.' Almost every lip in the State might have said it except that single lip of its Governor; and the moment he had uttered these words, in the theory of the English law it was not possible to impanel an impartial jury in the Commonwealth of Virginia; it was not possible to get the materials and the machinery to try him according to even the ugliest pattern of English jurisprudence. And yet the Governor does not know that he has written himself down a non compos, and the Commonwealth that he governs supposes it is still a Christian polity.-They have not the faintest conception of what goes to make up government. The worst Jeffries that ever, in his most drunken hour, climbed up lamp-post in the streets of London, would not have tried a man who could not stand on his feet. There is no such record in the blackest roll of tyranny. If Jeffries could speak, he would thank God that at last his name might be taken Down from the gibbet of History, since the Virginia Bench has made his worst act white, set against the blackness of this modern infamy. (Applause.) And yet the New York press daily
<c05>
Prints the accounts of the trial. Trial! The Inquisition used to break every other bone in a man's body, and then lay him on a pallet, giving him neither counsel nor opportunity to consult one, and then wring from his tortured mouth something like a confession, and call it a trial. But it was heaven-robed innocence compared with the trial, or what the New York Press call so, that has been going on in startled, frightened Charlestown. I speak what I know, and I speak what is but the breath and whisper of the summer breezes compared with the tornado of rebuke that will come back from the Press of Great Britain, when they hear that we affect to call that a jury trial, and blacken the names Judge and Jury by baptizing these pirate orgies with such honorable appellations.
I wish I could say anything worthy of the great deed which has taken place in our day-the opening of the sixth seal, the pouring out of the last vial but one on a corrupt and giant institution. I know that many men will deem me a fanatic for uttering this wholesale vituperation, as it will be called, upon a State, and this endorsement of a madman. I can only say that I have spoken on this anti-slavery question before the American people twenty years; that I have seen the day when this same phase of popular opinion was on the other side. You remember the first time I was ever privileged to stand on this platform by the magnanimous generosity of your clergyman, when New York was about to bully and crush out the freedom of speech at the dictation of Capt. Renders. From that day to this, the same braving of public thought has been going on from here to Kansas, until it bloomed in the events of the last three years. It has changed the whole face of the sentiment in these Northern States. Yoga meets with the evidence of it everywhere. When the first news from Harper's Ferry came to Massachusetts, if you were riding in the cars, if you were walking in the streets, if you met a Democrat or a Whig or a Republican, no matter what his politics, it was a singular circumstance that he did not speak of the guilt of Brown, of the atrocity of the deed, as you might have expected. The first impulsive expression, the first outbreak of every man's words was, 'What a pity he did not succeed! (Laughter.) What a fool he was for not going off Monday, when he had all he wanted! How strange that he did not take his victory, and march away with it! 'It indicated the unconscious leavening of sympathy with the attempt. Days followed on; they commenced what they called their trial; you met the same classes again;-no man said he ought to be hung; no man said he was guilty; no man predicated anything of his moral position; every man voluntarily and inevitably seemed to give vent to his indignation at the farce of a trial-indicative again of that unheeded, unconscious, potent, but wide-spread sympathy on the side of Brown.
Do you suppose that these things mean nothing? What the tender and poetic youth dreams to-day, and conjures up with inarticulate speech, is tomorrow the vociferated result of public opinion, and the day after is the charter of nations. The sentiments we raise to intellect, and from intellect to character. The American people have begun to feel. The mute eloquence of the fugitive slave has gone up and down the highways and by-ways of the country; it will annex itself to the great American heart of the North, even in the most fossil state of its hunkers, as a latent sympathy with its right side. This blow, like the first blow at Lexington, heard around the world-this blow at Harper's Ferry reveals men. Watch those about you, and you will see more of the temper and unheeded purpose and real moral position of men than you would imagine. This is the way nations are to be judged. Be not in a hurry; it will come soon enough from this sentiment. We stereotype feeling into intellect, and then into statutes, and finally into national character. We have got the first stage of growth. Nature's live growths crowd out and rive dead matter. Ideas strangle statutes. Pulse-beats wear down granite, whether piled in jails or capitols. The people's hearts are the only title-deeds, after all. Your Barnburners said, 'Patron titles are unrighteous. 'Judges replied,' Such is the law. 'Wealth shrieked' Vested Rights! ï¿½Parties talked of Constitutions-still, the people said, 'Sin.' They shot a sheriff. A parrot press cried, 'Anarchy!' Lawyers growled, 'Murder!'-still, nobody was hung, if I recollect aright. To-day, the heart of the Barnburner beats in the statute-book of your State. John Brown's movement against slavery is exactly the same. Wait awhile and you'll all agree with me. What is fanaticism to-day is the fashionable creed to-morrow, and trite as the multiplication-table a week after.
John Brown has stirred those omnipotent pulses- LYDIA MARIA CHILD'S is one. She says. ï¿½That dungeon is the place for me, 'and writes a letter in magnanimous appeal to the better nature of Gov. Wise. She says in it, 'John Brown is a hero; he has done a noble deed. I think he was all right; but he is sick; he is wounded; he wants a woman's nursing. I am an Abolitionist; I have been so thirty years. I think slavery is a sin, and John Brown a saint; but I want to come and nurse him; and I pledge my word that if you will open his prison-door, I will use the privilege, under sacred honor, only to nurse him. I enclose you a message to Brown; be sure and deliver it. 'And the message was,' Old man, God blesses you! You have struck a noble blow; you have done a mighty work; God was with you; your heart was in the right place. I send you across five hundred miles the pulse of a woman's gratitude. 'And Gov. Wise has opened the door, and announced to the world that she may go in. John Brown has conquered the pirate. (Applause.) Hope! There is hope everywhere. It is only the universal history:
'Right forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne;
But that scaffold sways the future, and behind the dim unknown
Standish God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own.'

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 11, 1859.
EXECUTION OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in Boston, Nov.1st, the following Resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That it is recommended to the friends of impartial freedom throughout the Free States, in case of the execution of Capt. JOHN BROWN, now on trial for his life in Virginia, to observe that tragically event, ON THE DAY OF ITS OCCURENCE, in such manner as by them may be deemed most appropriate in their various localities- whether by public meetings and addresses, the adoption of resolutions, private conferences, or any other justifiable mode of action-for the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, and renewably to consecrate themselves to the patriotic and Christian work of effecting the abolition of that most dangerous, unnatural, cruel and impious system of slavery, which is the fruitful source of all our sectional heart-burnings and conflicts, which powerfully and increasingly tends to promote servile insurrection and civil war, which cannot be more truly or more comprehensively described than as 'THE SUM OF ALL VILLANIES, 'which is a burning disgrace and fearful curse to the whole country, and by the speedy extinction of which, alone, can the land be saved from violence, blood, and utter demoralization.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
Editors of newspapers are respectfully requested to give this notice, or the substance of it, an insertion in their columns.
In the course of his brilliant lecture on Courage, at the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday evening last, Ralph Waldo Emerson said with marked emphasis, referring to Capt. John Brown-'THE SAINT, whose fate yet hangs in suspense, but whose martyrdom, if it shall be perfected, will make the gallows as glorious as the cross. 'The sentiment was responded to by the immense audience in the most enthusiastic manner.
<c06>
ï¿½WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE?'
This is the eager inquiry raised by the Virginia press, in regard to the recent outbreak at Harper's Ferry. It is obvious enough who were the immediate actors therein; but who ought to be held responsible for instigating John Brown and his confederates to the work of putting an end to slavery in that State vi et armies! The flippant reply is,ï¿½ The Black Republican party'-'Seward, summer, Hale, Giddings, Phillips, Garrison, Gerri Smith,' &c. &c. -all who believe aid inculcate the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence. These, it is alleged, by their opposition to the slave system, have made themselves, not merely the accessories, but the real instigators of those' traitors and murderers,' and ought to be dealt with accordingly!-Now, we beg leave to suggest to the Virginia, press the propriety of looking nearer home in regard to this matter. Below we give the official SEALAND MOTTO OF VIRGINIA, which, it will be seen at a glance, furnish all the justification that Brown and his assistants need to adduce in the Court of Equity, (according to her own ideas of righteous retribution,) and which are palpably of a most' incendiary, treasonable and murderousï¿½ nature, fully authorizing as they do the extermination of the whole body of slaveholders, and powerfully stimulating to the commission of that bloody deed! The Seal represents, LIBERTY armed cap-a-pie, with her foot upon the neck of the tyrant, having cut off his head with her sword, and exclaiming,' Sic simper tyrannies'-'S0 BE IT EVER TO TYRANTS!' Thus:-
Virginia, therefore, is to be held responsible for the Harper's Ferry tragedy! Pass it around'. Let Gov. Wise be arrested forthwith!

RESPECTABLE WHITE PERSONS.'
At a semi-annual meeting of the 'City Missionary Society,' recently held in Park Street Church, an address was made by Rev. Dr. Baron Stow, of the Rowe Street Baptist Church. A brief report of his remarks in the Boston Recorder says-
ï¿½The speaker was of opinion that the churches of our large cities did not sufficiently meet the needs of the poor and lowly.'
This 'opinionï¿½ of Dr. Stow is unquestionable well founded. If he will receive a friendly suggestion as to something he can do to remove this undesirable state of things, I would propose-
1st, that, for his sermon next Sunday, before the Rowe Street Church, he take the following text:-Epistle of James, 2d chapter, first six versus.
ï¿½My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For if there come unto year assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment; and ye have respect to him that earth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here is a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool: are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But YE have DESPISED the poor.'
2d, That he make strict application of this text to that characteristic of the theory and practice of his church and congregation which is expressed in the following extracts from the printed deed under which their pews are held, namely:
'Know all men by these Presents,
 That the Rowe Street Baptist Society, a corporation for religious purposes, established in the city of Boston, in consideration of the sum of dollars, paid by, of, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do hereby sell and convey unto the said representatives and assigns, the Pew numbered, in the meeting-house of said Society, situate at the corner of Rowe and Bedford streets, in said city.
To have and to hold the same to the said representatives and assigns, but subject to all By-Laws of said Society, and the following conditions, viz.:
And it is a further condition of these presents, that if the owner or owners of said pew shall determine hereafter to sell the same, it shall first be offered, in writing, to the Standing Committee of said Society. And if said Committee shall not so complete such purchase within said ten days, then the said pew may be sold by the owner or owners thereof (after payment of all such arrears) to any one respectable white person; but upon the same conditions as are contained in this instrument.'
3d, That he repeat this sermon, with this application, once a month, on sacrament days, until his church and congregation shall have repented of the great sin which they have been persistently committing through all the eleven years of his pastorship, and shall have brought forth fruits meet for repentance.-C. K. W.

LECTURE BY MRS. DALL. 
Mrs. Caroline H. Dall gave the first of her course of three lectures on 'Woman's Right to Labor,' at Mercantile Hall in Summer street, last Monday evening. It gave an impressive and affecting delineation of the manner in which, and the extent to which, prostitution is directly occasioned by the low rate of women's wages, and the discouragements attending their entrance upon occupations other than the few commonly recognized as belonging to 'women's sphere.' It gave details of the enormous amount of labor performed, and the miserably inadequate rate of compensation received, by most of those women who derive their subsistence from the various branches of needlework. By a sketch of the labors required of large classes of women, and actually performed by them, in departments more laborious than needlework, in countries civilized and savage, ancient and modern, it thoroughly exploded the pretence so often made that the weakness of woman's frame prevents her from taking share with man in his various occupations. It vindicated the dignity of labor, and showed that the ideas prevailing in the community unfavorable to the open assumption, by women, of a self-supporting position, were owing quite as much to contempt for labor as to contempt for women. And it earnestly appealed to those women who wish for a better state of things, to learn, and practise, and openly take for their occupation and means of support, such branches of business, of every kind, as they feel themselves competent to transact.
This lecture was highly excellent, admirable for its collection of facts, (little known, but of most weighty import,) and impressive in its enforcement of the lessons to be drawn from them. Every town in New England would be wiser and better for hearing the course of which this makes the commencement. Mrs. Dall offers to give it on terms exceedingly moderate and liberal, wherever the friends of reform will obtain a place and an audience for her. Reader, can you not cause so much as this to be done in your town? Can you not at least propose it your neighbor, or to the Lyceum Committee, and at once, before the lecture arrangements for winter are completed?-C. K. W.
For the ebullitions of the bottomless pit, and the torments of the damned, see 'Refuge of Oppression.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
HARPER'S FERRY INSURRECTION.
Whatever may be thought of the wisdom or the expediency of the undertaking at John Brown, in contemplation of the probable result of it, there can be no doubt he was actuated by the noblest and most philanthropic motives that can dignify our nature in engaging in it, viz., the liberation of the slaves. No selfish or mercenary consideration entered into his calculation, for it promised him neither property nor power, but, on the contrary, an ignominious death, if he failed in it, as he has done. It would seem, too, that he was desirous to prevent the destruction of life, as far as possible. He intended to arm the slaves to act merely in self-defense in their efforts to obtain their liberty, but not to take the lives of their masters, unless it should be absolutely necessary for this purpose. And there is no doubt that the lives of women and children would have been spared, and they taken under his protection. It was intended to be carried on like other wars, a contest between men and men, to be waged according to the principles of civilized warfare, and needless barbarity would have been countenanced by him. And was not the object of it worthy of such an encounter, the liberation of human beings from the hell of slavery? Has not the world lavished its admiration upon William Tell, Robert Bruce, and other champions of liberty? And yet the despotism from which they endeavored to rescue their countrymen was not to be compared for a moment to the insufferable bondage of the slaves of the South. Dose the mere difference in the complexion of the sufferers change the whole character of the transaction, and convert that which in the first ease was considered a noble struggle for liberty, into a vile attempt at insurrection? Out upon such cold-blooded sophistry and arrant nonsense! The principle is the same in both cases, though vastly stronger in favor of the colored then of the white victims of oppression.
The slaves are perfectly justified by the laws of God and man in endeavoring to obtain their liberty by force and violence, if they can obtain it in no other way. And if they have this right, others are justified in assisting them in these endeavors. The slave owes no allegiance to the government under which he is living, for it fails to afford him the necessary protection in the enjoyment of his civil, his social, and his domestic rights. It treats him as an outlaw and a brute, ‘having no rights that a white man is bound to respect 'Now, where protection is not afforded, allegiance is not due. So say all the jurists and writers upon public law. The slave therefore is thrown upon his natural rights, and may defend them at all hazards, even, if need be, to the taking of the life of the assailant. He may treat him as a wrong-doer and a trespasser, and, if all other measures fail, he may take his life.
The world has just been doing honors to the Italians and Louis Bonaparte, the Emperor of France, for endeavoring to wrest them from the despotism of Austria, though their wrongs and their sufferings are but dust in the balance compared with those of the slave. Now, Louis Napoleon stands almost precisely upon the same footing in regard to the Italians that John Brown does in regard to the slaves of the South. He had no quarrel personally with Austria. Austria had not in any way invaded the rights of France. He espoused the cause of Italy, according to his own declaration, to free her from the thralldom and unjust interference of Austria in her internal affairs. He entered the lists of her champion, and, made her cause his own. And the world justified him in so doing, and covered him with its eulogies; Now John Brown has done the same thing in regard to the Southern slaves. And the South and the miserable dough-faces and Democrats of the North load him with their execrations. He, as an individual, and comrades with him, has acted just as Louis Napoleon and the French nation have done. And if the latter are justified, so must be the former.
Now, what a contrast, too, is presented by the probable fate of John Brown and Daniel Webster! The former using all his efforts, and periling his life, to give the slave his freedom, and the latter using all his efforts to throw him back into bondage! And the former, as his reward, is likely to be given to the scaffold, while the latter is rewarded by the Legislature of Massachusetts by a monument. 'Surely, justice is fled to brutish beasts, and men have lost their reason.'
GRANVILLE SHARP.

ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
A quarterly meeting of this Society was held in Manchester on Sunday, Oct. 30, commencing at half past 10, A. M, and continuing through the day and evening—the President in the chair. The following resolutions were presented for discussion:—
I Resolved. That in this Anti-Slavery contest, we bring to the American people no new truth; we only bring the Declaration of our Independence, and the Sermon on the Mount; and yet we are denounced as traitors, fanatics and infidels. Why? Only because we accept these truths as realities, and demand that government and religion shall be conformed and harmonized to their divine teachings.
2. Resolved, That our allegation against the government of this land is not that it has been corrupted to the Slave Power, and that a change of executive power is only needed to make it a good and useful government for the people, but this: that the government is radically wrong, inasmuch as it barters human rights for political ends, and is making the inane experiment of harmonizing light and darkness, Christ and Belial, Liberty and Slavery. We demand its repeal, and that a government founded on the rights of man occupies its place.
3 Resolved, that we heartily concur in the efforts now being made in this and other Northern States to obtain the passage of a Personal Liberty Bill that shall forbid, under severe pains and penalties, any further man-hunting within our borders. We earnestly exhort all the friends of freedom to be faithful in circulating and signing the petitions now before the people, for the enactment of this law.
4. Resolved, That all those persons who recognize the right of the oppressed white man to rise against his oppressor, and to break his chains, even over his tyrant's head, are bound to recognize the same right over the colored slave of this land, and to hail with gratitude and joy the recent demonstration of John Brown and his associates at Harper's Ferry, which, for heroic daring, as well as moderation and humanity, has never been excelled, and only in a few instance equaled in the history of the world.
5. Resolved, That the heroic bearing of John Brown, as he lay wounded in that engine house, and with a calmness and dignity truly sublime answered the questions of Governor Wise and his associates, who stood in mortal fear before him, challenges and will receive the admiration of the world.
6. Resolved, That the courage of John Brown, bleeding in his chains, before the enslaved courts of Virginia, and the cowardice of these courts, surrounded with bayonets, is illustrative of the influence of freedom and of slavery upon human character.
7. Resolved, That our trust is not in physical force, nor in aiding the slaves to rise against their masters, nor in the organization of political parties; but we do most religiously rely upon God and his truth, believing that a vigorous application of truth to error, and reliance upon justice and humanity, will prevail over all sin, and emancipate those in bondage.
8. Resolved, That we regard with loathing the pro-slavery religion of this land, which is forever uttering its cant about the worship of God, while it treads out the life of his children.
Able and stirring speeches were made by A. T. Foss, C. L. Remind, James N. Buffo, Mrs. Frances D. Gage of Missouri, Thomas Haskell, and Joseph H. Merrill, and the resolutions adopted—those relating to Capt John Brown being voted to be officially sent to
<c02>
him and Gov. Wise. The meetings were well attended— in the evening the hall was crowded—and a deep interest was manifested in the entire proceedings.
Mrs. Gage gave an interesting account of her visit to Cuba, Hayti, and St Croix—with special reference to the results of emancipation in the last named island. 
A collection of sixteen dollars was taken up to defray expanses. Thanks are due to the Manchester friends for their generous hospitality.
C. L. REMOND, President. MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.

LETTERS OF L. MARIA CHILD TO GOV. WISE AND CAPT. BROWN.
The following remarkable correspondence will constitute a permanent portion of the thrilling history of the Harper's Ferry tragedy. The letter of Mrs. Child is worthy of her high literary and philanthropic character, and Gov. Wise's response to it is better then could have been expected from such a source. WAYLAND, Mass., Oct. 26, 1859.
Gov. Wise: I have heard that you were a man of chivalrous sentiments, and I know you were opposed to the iniquitous attempt to force upon Kansas a constitution abhorrent to the moral sense of her people. Relying upon these indications of honor and justice in your character, I venture to ask a favor of you. Enclosed is a letter to Capt. John Brown. Will you have the kindness, after reading it yourself, to transmit it to the prisoner?
I and all my large circle of abolition acquaintances were taken by surprise when news came of Capt. Brown's recent attempt; nor do I know of a single person who would have approved of it had they been apprised of his intention. But I and thousands of others fool a natural impulse of sympathy for the brave and suffering man. Perhaps God, who sees the inmost of our souls, perceives some such sentiment in your heart also. He needs a mother or sister to dress his wounds and speak soothingly to him. Will you allow me to perform that mission of humanity? If you will, may God bless you for the generous deed!
I have been for years an uncompromising abolitionist, and I should scorn to deny it or apologize for it as much as John Brown himself would do. Believing in peace principles, I deeply regret the step that the old veteran has taken, while I honor his humanity towards those who became his prisoners. But because it is my habit to be as open as the daylight, I will also say that if I believed our religion justified men in fighting for freedom, I should consider the enslaved everywhere as best entitled to that right. Such an avowal is a simple, frank expression of my sense of natural justice.
But I should despise myself utterly if any circumstances could tempt me to seek to advance these opinions in any way, directly or indirectly, after your permission to visit Virginia has been obtained on the plea of sisterly sympathy with a brave and suffering, man. I give you my word of honor, which was never broken, that I would use such permission solely and singly for the purpose of nursing your prisoner, and for no other purpose whatsoever.
Yours, respectfully, L. MARIA CHILD.
LETTER OF MRS. CHILD TO CAPT. BROWN. WAYLAUD, Mass., Oct. 26, 1859.
Dear Capt. Brown: Though personally unknown to you, you will recognize in my name an earnest friend of Kansas, when circumstances made that Territory the battle-ground between the antagonistic principles of slavery and freedom, which politicians so vainly strive to reconcile in the government of the United States.
Believing in peace principles, I cannot sympathize with the method you chose to advance the cause of freedom. But I honor your generous intentions—I admire your courage, moral and physical. I reverence you for the humanity which tempered your zeal. I sympathize with you in your cruel bereavement, your sufferings, and your wrongs. In brief, I love you and bless you.
Thousands of hearts are throbbing with sympathy as warm as mine. I think of you night and day, bleeding in prison, surrounded by hostile faces, sustained only by trust in God and your own strong heart. I long to nurse you—to speak to you sisterly words of sympathy and consolation. I have asked permission of Governor Wise to do so. If the request is not granted, I cherish the hope that these few words may at least reach your hands, and afford you some little solace. May you be strengthened by the conviction that no honest man ever sheds blood for freedom in vain, however much he may be mistaken in his efforts. May God sustain you and carry you through whatsoever may be in store for you!
Yours, with heartfelt respect, sympathy and affection, L. MARIA CHILD.
GOVERNOR WISE'S REPLY.
RICHMOND, Va., Oct. 29, 1859.
Madam: Yours of the 26th was received by me yesterday, and at my earliest leisure I respectfully reply to it, that I will forward the letter for John Brown, a prisoner under our laws, arraigned at the bar of the Circuit Court for the county of Jefferson, at Charlestown, Va., for the crimes of murder, robbery and treason, which you ask me to transmit to him. I will comply with your request in the only way which seems to me proper, by enclosing it to the Commonwealth's attorney, with the request that he will ask the permission of the Court to hand it to the prisoner Brown, the prisoner, is now in the hands of the judiciary, not of the executive of this Commonwealth.
You ask me, further, to allow you to perform the mission 'of mother or sister, to dress his wounds and speak soothingly to him. By this, of course, you mean to be allowed to visit him in his cell, and to minister to him in the offices of humanity. Why should you not be so allowed, Madam? Virginia and Massachusetts are involved in no civil war, and the constitution which unites them in one confederacy guarantees to you privileges and immunities of a citizen of the United States in the State of Virginia. That constitution I am sworn to support, and am, therefore, bound to protect your privileges and immunities as a citizen of Massachusetts coming into Virginia for any lawful and peaceful purpose.
Coming, as you propose, to minister to the captive in prison, you will be met, doubtless, by all our people, not only in a chivalrous, but in a Christian spirit. You have the right to visit Charlestown, Va., Madam; and your mission being merciful and humane, will not only be allowed, but respected, if not welcomed. A few unenlightened and inconsiderate persons, fanatical in their modes of thought and action, to maintain justice and right, might molest you, or be disposed to do so; and this might suggest the imprudence of risking any experiment upon the peace of a society very much excited by the crimes with whose chief author you seem to sympathize so much. But still, I repeat, your motives and avowed purpose are lawful and peaceful, and I will, as far as I am concerned, do my duty in protecting your rights in our limits. Virginia and her authorities would be weak indeed—weak in point of folly, and weak in point of power, if her State faith and constitutional obligations cannot be redeemed in her own limits to the letter of morality as well as of law; and if her chivalry cannot courteously receive a lady's visit to a prisoner, every arm which guards Brown from rescue on the one hand, and from Lynch law on the other, will be ready to guard your person in Virginia.
I could not permit an insult even to woman in her walk of charity among us, though it be to one who whetted knives of butchery for our mothers, sisters, daughters and babes. We have no sympathy with your sentiments of sympathy with Brown, and are surprised that you were 'taken by surprise when news came of Captain Brown's recent attempt. His attempt was a natural consequence of your sympathy, and the errors of that sympathy ought to make you doubt its virtue from the effect on his conduct. But it is not of this I should speak. When you arrive at Charlestown, if you go there, it will be for the court and its officers, the Commonwealth's attorney, sheriff and jailer, to say whether you may see and wait on the prisoner. But, whether you are thus permitted or not, (and you will be, if my advice can prevail,) you may rest assured that he will be humanely, lawfully and mercifully dealt by in prison and on trial. Respectfully, HENRY A. WISE. L. MARIA CHILD.

From the Boston Bee and Atlas.
LETTER FROM A QUAKER LADY TO JOHN BROWN.
NEWPORT, R. I.,
Tenth month, 27th, '59.
CAPT. JOHH BROWN:
Dear Friend-Since thy arrest, I have often thought of thee, and have wished that, like Elizabeth Fry toward her prison friends, so I might console thee in thy confinement. But that can never be, and so I can only write thee a few lines, which, if they contain any comfort, may come to thee like some little ray of light.
You can never know how very many dear Friends love thee with all their hearts, for thy brave efforts in behalf of the poor oppressed; and though we, who are non-resistants, and religiously believe it better to reform by moral, and not by carnal weapons, could not approve of bloodshed, yet we know thee was animated by the most generous and philanthropic motives. Very many thousands openly approve thy in-
<c03>
tentions, though most Friend, would not think it right to take up arms.
Thousands pray for thee every day; and, oh, I do pray that God will be with thy soul. Posterity will do thee justice. If Moses led out the thousands of Jewish slaves from their bondage, and God destroyed the Egyptians in the sea because they went after the Israelites to bring them back to slavery, then surely, by the same reasoning, we may judge thee a deliverer who wished to release millions from a more cruel oppression. If the American people honor Washington for resisting with bloodshed for seven years an unjust tax, how much more ought thou to be honored for seeking to free the poor slaves!
Oh, I wish I could plead for thee, as some of the other sex can plead, how I would seek to defend thee! If I had now the eloquence of Ports, how I would turn the scale in thy favor! But I can only pray, 'God bless thee! 'God pardon thee, and through our Redeemer give thee safety and happiness now and always. From thy friend, E. B.
JOHN BROWN'S REPLY.
CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson Co., Va., 1st November, 1859.
MY DEAR FRIEND E. B. of R. L:
Your most cheering letter of 27th of Oct. is received, and may the Lord reward you a thousand fold for the kind feeling you express toward me; but more especially for your fidelity to the 'poor that cry, and those that have no help. For this I am a prisoner in bonds. It is solely my own fault, in a military point of view, that we met with our disaster—I mean that I mingled with our prisoners, and so far sympathized with them and their families, that I neglected my duty in other respects. But God's will, not mine, be done.
You know that Christ once armed Peter. So also in my case, I think he put a sword into my hand, and there continued it, so lone as he saw best, and then kindly took it from me. I mean when I first went to Kansas. I wish you could know with what cheerfulness I am now wielding the 'Sword of the Spirit 'on the right hand and on the left. I bless God that it proves 'mighty to the pulling down of strong holds. I always loved my Quaker friends, and I commend to their kind regard my poor bereaved, widowed wife, and my daughters and daughters-in-law, whose husbands fell at my side. One is a mother, and the other likely to become so soon. They, as well as my own sorrow-stricken daughter, are left very poor, and have much greater need of sympathy then I, who, through Infinite Grace and the kindness of strangers, am 'joyful in all my tribulations.'
Dear Sister, write them at North Elba, Essex Co., N. Y., to comfort their sad hearts. Direct to Mary A. Brown, wife of John Brown. There is also another— a widow—wife of Thomson, who fell with my poor boys in the affair at Harper's Ferry, at the same place.
I do not feel conscious of guilt in taking up arms; and had it been in behalf of the rich and powerful, the intelligent, the great—as men count greatness—of those who form enactments to suit themselves and corrupt others, or some of their friends, that I interfered, suffered, sacrificed and fell, it would have been doing very well. But enough of this.
These light afflictions, which endure for a moment, shall work but for me a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. I would be very grateful for another letter from you. My wounds are healing. Farewell. God will surely attend to his own cause in the best possible way and time, and he will not forget the work of his own hands.
Your friend, JOHN BROWN.
A NOBLE VIRGINIA WOMAN. Let Virginia no more boast of her Pocahontas, or at least let her admit to an equal honor the name of Miss Fluke, who so nobly interposed in behalf of the prisoner Thompson, who was so brutally murdered by the slaveholders of Harper's Ferry. She is the daughter of the tavern-keeper in that village. The Transcript thus tells the story:
'A crowd of armed men, with the ferocious habits of slave drivers, and in such a state of excitement as hardly to be responsible moral agents, were fiercely aiming their arms at the helpless prisoner, and swearing to shoot him down instantly. The lady had to fear not only a reckless, but an involuntary shot from a gun in some of their trembling hands; but she threw her person between the prisoner and the muzzles of their weapons, and, holding him fast in her arms, heedfully and continually made her own head his shield against every leveled and shaking rifle.'
To do such an act, and in defence of one whom, in all probability, she had never seen before, required not only all the courage which Gov. Wise attributes to himself, and which poor old Osawatomie Brown possesses, but also the same high-hearted generosity which has made the name of Florence Nightingale a household word in all Christendom. All honor, then, to Miss Fulke. We hope Virginia has others like her, and many such women are needed to save the noble old Commonwealth from the ungoverned passions of her male inhabitants.'
Mrs. Child's note to Brown was brief and encouraging. Gov. Wise granted Mrs. Child's request, and also forwarded her note to Brown. Mrs. Child is a noble representative of Northern women. Her equal doesn't live in Virginia or elsewhere south of Mason and Dixon's line. We trust Mrs. Child may be able to perform her beneficent mission without harm, but as a known abolitionist and free spoken woman, she runs great hazard of injury as well as insult in a community like that of Virginia, which doesn't consider itself safe if free speech or free sympathy is permitted within its borders.
The Staunton Virginian tells this story:—'One of our townsmen, Mr. George W. Dilliard, was involved in great danger at Harper's Ferry last week. He had gone there on business on the day after the capture of Old Brown and his party, and in walking alone in the vicinity of the Ferry, enjoying the splendid scenery, with one of the pikes in his hand, and two or three blank commissions in his pocket, taken from the insurgents, and which Gov. Wise had given him the day before, he was pursued and captured by a party who were hunting for Cook. Mr. Dilliard was immediately charged with being one of Cook's men; the pike was satisfactory evidence, and the cry was raised of 'shoot him! shoot him! 'and several loaded guns were pointed at his breast. Fortunately, Mr. Dilliard retained his self-possession so well that the party at last yielded to his request that he should be taken to the Superintendent at the Ferry, and there be permitted to prove his innocence. Mr. Dilliard said it was about the most trying half hour or more he ever spent'
BROWN'S FAMILY. The Worcester Spy says the Rev. T. W. Higginson, of that city, has just returned from a visit to the family of Capt. John Brown. He found them up among the Adirondack mountains in New York, near Lake Champlain, opposite Burlington, Vt., Mrs. Brown and four of her surviving children, three daughters and one son. She is a second wife, and has been the mother of twelve children. Brown had eight children by a previous wife, making twenty in all. Eight of the twenty are now living. Mrs. Brown accompanied Mr. Higginson on his return, and he went with her in the train to Boston, yesterday, passing through Fitchburg. She will leave to-day for Virginia, having telegraphed to Gov. Wise for permission to visit her husband in prison.
A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune writes:—
'Brown's cheerfulness never fails him. He converses with all who visit him, in a manner so free from restraint and with so much unconcern, that none can doubt his real convictions of self-approval. His daring courage has strongly impressed the people, and I have more then once heard public avowals of admiration of his fearlessness, in spite of ominous murmurs of disapprobation from bystanders. 
A telegraph dispatch, dated Boston, was this morning received from T. W. Higginson, by Mr. Sennott. It said: 'John Brown's wife wishes to go on and see him. Can you obtain permission for her? 'This was answered affirmatively; but when the matter was mentioned to Brown, he directed that this message should be immediately sent: 'Do not, for God's sake, come here now. JOHN BROWN.'
The venerable Col. David Story of Essex, now in the eighty-third year of his age, states that 'Ossawatomie Brown of Essex County extraction. His father was David Brown, of Hamilton, brother to the late Stephen Brown, and his mother was Ruth Story, of Essex, sister of the late Jacob Story. David and his wife removed to Ohio about sixty years ago, and afterward removed to Kentucky. They had three sons, of whom the now famous John was one.—Salem Gazette.
THE JOHN BROWN'S AFFAIR. The exceptions taken by Brown's counsel to the action of the Circuit Court will be argued before the Court of Appeals of Virginia, now in session at Richmond, by Mr. Chilton of Washington on the side of Brown. If that Court does not reach a decision before the day fixed for the execution, it is believed that Gov. Wise will grant a reprieve. In the remainder of the cases the same course will be pursued as in those of Brown and Coppice. The prosecution will prove their points, get a verdict, and the defence will move for an arrest d judgment. The decision of the Court of Appeals in Brown's case will thus settle the whole.
<c04>
NOT A SAFE PLACE FOR YANKERS. On the day that John Brown was in possession of Harper's Ferry, the Superintendent of the Harper's Ferry Armory was in Springfield, Mass., to get a new master armored for that establishment, and engaged Mr. Salmon Adams, the clerk and assistant of the master armored at the Government shops in Springfield. But since he has got home, he writes back cancelling the engagement, for the reason that the people there are so exasperated with the Yankees that they would not stand one of them in the place of master armored. They would butcher him, he says, should Mr. Adams come on and take the place!
The Cincinnati Gazette says that the individual who wrote the anonymous letter from that city to Secretary Floyd, hinting at the plan of Brown to excite an insurrection at Harper's Ferry, is supposed to be the same who betrayed the negroes whom Connelly had secreted in his room. He has had the confidence of the 'Underground' men, and has used this confidence to betray fugitives and get the rewards offered fox them by their masters.
JOHN BROWN'S WIFE. The Worcester Transcript says—'Mrs. Brown passed through this city on the steamboat train, on route for Charlestown. She is a large and noble-looking woman, and worthy of being John Brown's wife. She says that she has always prayed to God that her husband might fall in battle rather then by the hands of slaveholders; but that now she dose not regret his capture, for the sake of the noble words he has been permitted to utter. She says that she is the mother of thirteen children, of whom but four survive; but that she would willingly see the ruin of all her household, if it would only help the cause of freedom. What a speech for a wife and mother, whose sons hare been so lately assassinated, and whose husband is now lying under sentence of death!'
A REWARD OFFERED FOR THE HEAD OF MR. <illegible> The following advertisement appears in the Richmond Whig:—
Ten Thousand Dollars Reward.—Joshua R. Giddings having openly declared himself a traitor in a lecture at Philadelphia, on the 28th of October, and there being no process, strange to, say, by which he can be brought to justice, I propose to be one of one hundred to raise $10, 000 for his safe delivery in Richmond, or $5000 for the production of his head. I do not regard this proposition, extraordinary as it may at first seem, either unjust or unmerciful. The law of God and the Constitution of his country both condemn him to death.
For satisfactory reasons I withhold my name from the public, but it is in the hands of the editor of the Richmond Whig. There will be no difficulty, I am sure, in raising the $10, 000 upon a reasonable prospect of getting the said Giddings to this city.
Richmond, Nov. 1, 1859.
NEW YORK, NOV. 9.—The Tribune understands that a requisition has been made by Gov. Wise of Virginia upon Gov. Morgan for the surrender of Gerrit Smith, out whether on the charge of treason simply against the State of Virginia, or of murder also, has not transpired.
NEW YORK, NOV. 9. Gerrit Smith was to-day sent to the Lunatic Asylum at Utica, seriously deranged.
Gov. Wise has offered a reward of $500 for the capture of each of the following persons, viz.: Owen Brown, Barclay Coppice, Francis J. Merriam, and Charles P. Tidd. These parties, the proclamation says, are 'severally charged with the crimes of treason, murder, and conspiring and advising with slaves to rebel.'
CHARLESTOWN, Va., 4th.—Shields Green, one of the negro prisoners, was found guilty this morning. The first count, for treason, was abandoned, upon objections taken by Mr. Sennott, that it was not proven that the prisoner was a free person, and therefore did not come under the statute, which reads, 'Any free person, '&c. Sentence was deferred.
Copeland, the mulatto, is now upon trial, Mr. Sennott defending.
SURRENDER OF AN INSURRECTIONIST.—W. Harrison, alias Hazlett, has been surrendered to the authorities of Virginia, upon the requisition of Gov. Wise, as implicated in the Harper's Ferry troubles. He left for Virginia on Saturday. 
Two alleged Abolitionists have been arrested in Mobile, and compelled to give bonds or leave the State.

UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made in January last, or previously to that time, are now payable; and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day.
All donations, in furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, will be faithfully applied to the swelling of that Just and Righteous Public Sentiment, before which SLAVERY cannot stand, and must fall.
All payments to be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent, 21 Cornhill, Boston.

WILLIAM H. FISH, of Cortland. New York, has been re-appointed, by the Executive Committee, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society. His aid, in the lecturing field, is commended to all friends of the cause, and contributions in its behalf, and subscriptions to the Anti-Slavery Standard, Liberator, &c, may be paid to him.

WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR.
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES. MERCANTILE HALL.
Mrs. Dall will deliver the record of her course of Lectures at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on
MONDAY, NOV. 14, at half-past 7 o'clock.
SUBJECT—Practical opposition, and the work now open.
Avocations already open. False ideas of society keep respectable women out of them. Practical opposition not ended. Penn. Medical Society. Census of Great Britain and the United States. Nantucket. Dr. Franklin's sister-in-law. Olive Rose. Baron Toermer and Felicie de Fauveau.
There will be no tickets. Editors, Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission.
Single admission 25 cts. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock.
CUMMINGTON, Mass.—An Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in the Independent Meeting house at East Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, November 19 and 20, commencing on Saturday at 1 o'clock, P. M. All friends of impartial liberty, and of an honest, uncompromising Anti-Slavery agitation, are requested to attend, and confer together on the best methods of promoting the Anti-Slavery cause.
Among the speakers expected are ANDREW T. FOSS, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH:
GLOUCESTER.—An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held in Gloucester, in the TOWN HALL, November 12th and 13th; commencing on Saturday evening, the 12th, at 7 o'clock, and continuing on Sunday, day and evening.
ANDREW T. FOSS and CHARLES L. REMOND are engaged to be present.
All are invited to come. Let it be a true gathering for Freedom.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:—
Gloucester, Saturday, Nov. 12.
Knightsville, Tuesday, Nov. 22.
S. Worthington, Wednesday Nov. 23.
West Cummington, Friday, Nov. 25.
Savoy, Saturday, Nov. 26.
Cheshire, Sunday, Nov. 27
Hinsdale, Tuesday, Nov. 29.
Middlefield, Wednesday, Nov. 30.
Worthington, Thursday, Dec 1.
Plainfield, Friday, Dec 2.
Ash field, Sunday, Dec 4.
Buckland, Tuesday, Dec 6.
Shelburne Falls, Wednesday. Dec 7.
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY FOR WOMEN IN NEW YORK STATE.—Meetings, to be addressed by Mrs. Tracy Cutler, of Illinois, and J. Elisabeth Jones, of Ohio, will be held in Wyoming county, as follows:—
Perry, Monday. Nov. 14.
Warsaw, Wednesday, Nov. 16.
Carlisle, Friday, Nov. 18.
In Livingston County, to be addressed by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, of St Louis, Missouri, and Lucy N. Colman of Rochester, at
Leroy, Tuesday, Nov. 15.
Lima, Wednesday, Nov. 16.
Livonia, Friday, Nov. 18.
There will be an afternoon and evening session at each place, at 2 and 7 o'clock. Admission to afternoon session free; evening session, 10 cents.
All communications for the undersigned should be sent to 21 Cornhill Boston.
SAMUEL MAY. JR.,
General Agent Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
<c05>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:—
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTITE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, STPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPERSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy betted health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else. 
During late yean the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED BY 
DR, J. C. AYER & CO. 
LOWELL, MASS. 
Price, $1 per Bottle Six Bottles for $5. 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral 
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more then assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperients in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where.
where 6m May 7

WOMAN'S RIGHTS TRACTS.
THE following Woman's Rights Tracts may be obtained of SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Rochester, N. Y:—
single, hundred.
Report of Ninth National Woman's Rights Convention, with phonographic report of the speech of WENDELL PHILLIPS,by J. M. W. Yerrinton 06 4.00
The Position of Woman, as Woman, Wife, Widow, Mother—Address to N. Y. State Legislature, by E. Cady Stanton 05 3.00
Series of Woman's Rights Tracts, viz.:
Freedom for Women— Wendell Phillips,
Public Function of Woman—T. Parker,
Enfranchisement of Women—Mrs. Mills,
Woman and her Wishes-Higginson,
Responsibilities of Women-Mrs. Nichols,. 10 6.00
Civil and Political Equality—Report of Ohio Senate on giving the right of suffrage to Women. 40
It is so Unladylike.40
I have all the Rights I Want.40
Ought Women to team the Alphabet. 40
The Nonsense of it,. 40
Who are the Opposers of the Woman Movement?.44
Oct. 28

CHARLES HAZELTINE,
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
Nov. 4. 6m

PHRENOLOGICAL ROOMS,
142 Washington St, Boston.
EXAMINATIONS Day and Evening.
SPECIAL ADVICE as to Occupation, &c.
CLASS LECTURES from OCTOBER to MAY.
All of FOWLER & WELLS'PUBLICATIONS.
CABINET and MUSSUM FREE TO VISITORS.
D. P. BUTLER,
Phrenologist and Bookseller,
No. 142 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
Oct 28 6m

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R. CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened <illegible> No, 23 Eliot street, a few doers from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased to favor him with their patronage.
Boston, Sept. 10, 1859
<c06>
Is there any virtue In
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S or EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had born gradually falling, until, on the crows, it had become quite this. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Restorer, 'No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. Mr. hair in now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald. Rev. M. THECHER, 
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 23, 1855 
President J.L.EATON, LL D., Union University, Murfressbore', Tennessee
MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAOR FALLING OUT. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allens World's Restorer, " &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible. THE FALLING OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports are, and to <illegible> GREY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor 'Ladies' Repository, 'Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalasmum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy aspirator, and retains it in any position desired.
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocates, 'Buffalo, N. Y.
‘You’re Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color, '&c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cur. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. T. City.
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era.' Boston. Mass.
Having used numerous specifies too little purpose; I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray, my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev., H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness, 'Boston.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass. 
‘I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middlstown, Orange Co., N. Y.
‘My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP. AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescott, Lancashire. England.
‘Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color, —not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and too many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E. S.ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Haiti,) Martinsburg, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in forenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allan's, she writes to the 'American Baptist, I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never say thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness, 'Cincinnati, Ohio.
‘It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity, and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement, '&c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corns. See. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene County, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.
Rev. JAS. McFarlane, Pastern Prot. Dutch Church, ESOPs, Ulster County, N.Y.
 I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobasamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
‘I am happy to bear testimony, to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in caring my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsbury, N. Y.
‘I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man'
It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.
‘Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
‘We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing has then a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell article on which they make more profit then on these; always INSISY on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer win last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, $7 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World 's Hair Restorer Depot, NO <ILLEGIBLE> Broome Street, New York. ‘The Genuine has Mr. S. A. Allen, 'signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles—nuns other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
OCTOBER 14. lycop
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the New York Independent
ROME—1859.
By JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Off with hats, down with knees, shout your visas like mad!
Here’s the Pope in his holiday righteousness clad.
From shorn crown to toe-nail, kiss-worn to the quick,
Of sainthood purple the pattern and pick,
Who the role of the priest and the soldier unites.
And praying like Aaron, like Joshua fights!
What are this squeak of the fife and this batter of drum?
Lo! The Swiss of the Church front Peruvian come—
The militant angles, whose sabers drive home,
To the hearts of the malcontents, cursed and abhorred.
The goad Father's missives, and Thus sati the Lord'!
And lend to his logic the point of the sword!
Oh, maids of Terrie, gazing forlorn
O'er dark Thrasymenus. Disheveled and torn!
Oh, fathers, who pluck at your gray beards for shame,
Oh, mothers struck dumb by a woe without name!
Well ye knew hoar the Holy Church blesses and saves,
And it’s tender compassion for prisons and graves!
Stand aside, men of Rome! Here's hangman faced Swiss—
(A blessing for him surely can't go amiss)—
Would kneel to God's vicar, his slipper to kiss,
Fit Son of such father-he's blest beyond doubt;
But there's blood on his hands which will never wash out,
Though Peter himself held the baptismal spout!
Make way for the next! Here's another sweet son!
What's this mastiff-jawed rascal in epaulettes done?
Hush! Stoop your ear down; let me whisper the Word,
He spitted a heretic babe on his sword!
And its mother?-don't name her,-these humors of War
The Church, Satan helping, must pardon him for!
Hits! Here's the last-named in a cardinal's hat,
With the heart of a wolf and the stealth of a cat,
(As if Judas and Herod together were rolled)—
Who keeps, all as one, the Pope's conscience and gold,
Mounts guard on the altar, and pilfers from thence,
And flatters St. Peter while stealing his pence!
Who doubts Antonelli? Have miracles ceased
When stabbers say mass and Baraboo is priest?
When the Church eats and drinks at its mystical board,
The true flesh and blood carved and shed by its Sword—
When its martyr, unsinged, claps the crown on its head,
And roasts, as his proxy, his neighbor instead!
There! The bells jowl and jangle the same blessed way
That they did when they rang for Bartholomew's day:
Hark! The tallow-faced monsters, nor women nor Boys,
Vex the air with a shrill, sexless horror of noise.
The mass-candles gutter—all rounds without stint,
The incense-pot swings with a taint of blood isn’t!
Hooky Pope! Blessed Cardinals! Who dares complain?
Of State or of Church where the saints only reign—
Where the faithful are loaded with honors, and dole
For deeds that would damn any heretic's soul;
And robbers, turned sbirri, have nothing to fear,
But dodge hell hereafter by making it here!

THE STORY OF A KING.
Dedicated to an Emperor
BY JAMES MACK.
'What are those people reading?'
Said Frederick, half aloud,
While standing by the window,
He saw an eager crowd.
High on a wall adjoining,
A paper had been stuck,
The people stood on tip-toe
To read, with wonder struck,
One of his six-foot guardsmen,
Who heard him, answered,' Sire,
Your Majesty permitting,
I hasten to inquire.'
Soon, flushed with indignation,
The guard returned—'I see
'Ties an atrocious libel
Upon your Majesty!'
The King took out his snuff-box,
With more of smile than frown—
'A libel, my good fellow
Well go and take it down'.
'Yes, Sire!'—'Friend, stop a moment—
You'll take it down, indeed;
But just to place it lower,
So all with ease may read.'
"Ties done—around the soldier,
Amazed, the people stand.
And question of his doings—
"Ties by the King's command!
'He cares not what is written,
Or, said, by friend or foe,
Content to ask his people,
Are these things true or no?'
They spurned away the libel;
Its words had lost their weight;
A thunder rolled to heaven—
'Live, Frederick the Great!'
Now, this was not the weakness
Of a good-natured fool—
IT was the manly wisdom
Of one that knew to rule.
Thou who to France hast given
Her former power and glory,
Complete thy own by taking
The normal of my story.
Trust in thyself and people—
In fines and prisons less—
To make all libels harmless,
Give freedom to the press!

From the New York Tribune.
'OLD BROWN.'
Cary has broke the silence o'er our land,
A blow disturbed our waters from their rest,
And blood has quenched a madly lighted brand,
That madness lit to rouse a race oppressed.
Soon shall the echoes of that outcry fail?
And soon be smoothed the ripples on the wave,
And soon be hid the embers of that vale
The Old Man lit, within the Old Man's grave.
But in our nation's pulses will a stir
Of saddening pity ever cling around
The thought of him, whom wrong had caused to err,
And in his med of death will see him martyr crowned.
Humanity's great heart will feel the cause
That fired the brain beneath his locks of snow,
And throb obedient to our nature's laws,
That father's heart will swell with thickening breath,
When he recalls that deed of murder done
In lawless Kansas, and the cruel death.
By banded cowards, of the Old Man's son.
Revenge became the mainspring of his life,
"That, all disordered, moved by this alone,]
The ever-rising vision of that strife
Showed his son's fats—echoed his dying groan.
<c02>
Nay, now his courage, stubborn as his steel,
Exerts grim admiration from his foes;
The future will a deeper pity feel,
And see in Brown the victim of his woes.

THE LIBERATOR
THE TRAGEDY AT HARPER'S FERRY
MR.EDITOR:
In the Watchman and Reflector of the 27th ultimo,
(The Baptist organ of this State,) there appears an article under this caption, by the editor, containing sentiments which seem to me both so Ludicrous and unjust as to justify a brief notice. It is in no spirit of injustice or malevolence that I would criticize this ebullitions of pharisaic regard for existing customs and institutions—without any regard to their moral character-but with the simple purpose of exposing what seems to me the mental obtuseness of the author, and his unfitness to assume to be a guide of the people as a teacher of Christian morals. Pressing engagements will only allow me to analyze, in this communication, a single paragraph, which is as follows:—
‘A band of seventeen whites and five colored men conspire to overthrow the United States Government. They adopt, formally, a new Constitution, take possession, by stratagem, of a national armory, hold as prisoners a force three-fold larger than themselves, and overcome a village containing two thousand inhabitants. To put down this formidable (!) rebellion, the President of the United States, and the Governors of Maryland and Virginia, sends forward large bodies of troops to the scene of action; some of the prisoners are slain, a few escape, and the rest are taken prisoners. The insurrection is quelled, and the public fears are at an end. If it were not for the valuable lives lost in the struggle, the affair would excite the ridicule of all thoughtful men, as a hair brained scheme of rack less men, like the foolish escapade of Louis Napoleon at Ham.'
As suggested first by this paragraph, we would respectfully ask its author, what can a government be worth to the people living under it, organized and sustained by the suffrages of more than a million of nominally civilized and Christian men, that can be put in imminent peril, and made to sway to and fro, like a reed shaken by the wind, by a simple attempt, by twenty-two 'reckless men,' to overthrow it? It. surely cannot be built upon a rock; if so insignificant a force can send consternation into the very citadel of its vaunted strength. With what emphasis does the Prophet address such as he when he says—'If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? And if in the land of peace, wherein thou trustiest, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan?'(See Jeer. 12: 5.)
The writer speaks of the outbreak at Harper's Ferry as a formidable rebellion’; but we are unable to comprehend in what sense he wishes us to understand this phrase, unless he uses it in reference to the 'formidable enemies'—the Church and the State—united to keep four millions of men in a condition to which death is to be preferred—against which Brown and his ‘hair-brained' associates rose up in arms. But we hardly feel justified in regarding this as his meaning, because we can hardly believe that he would criminate himself; hence his designation of it as a 'formidable-rebellion' seems to us quite as well adapted to 'excite the ridicule of all thoughtful men' as the attempt of a few 'hair-brained' men to overturn the United States Government.
The writer says of the little band of insurgents at Harper's Ferry—'They adopt, formally, a new Constitution, take possession, by stratagem, of a national armory, hold as prisoners a fore three-fold larger than their own, and overcome a village containing two thousand inhabitants.' And what if they did? Did not George Washington do the same, with less provocation, and a much less noble object in view, eighty years ago; and has he not been lauded for it ever since? Will it be said that three millions of men were oppressed by the despotic edicts of a British King, and that Washington found his justification for heading a rebellion against him in that fact? Did not Brown head a rebellion against the more despotic enactments of the hypocritical government of the United States, to secure a truer freedom for four millions of men, whom it has robbed of every civil, social and religious right? Why, then, should the former be honored as the 'savior' of our country, and even the clergy be less sensitive to any thing said a gains the 'Savior of the world,' than to any thing w hitch may be said against him; while Brown, who sought to secure a better freedom for a larger number of the victims of a more despotic and merciless try any, is branded as a 'madman,' a 'murderer,' and a 'traitor,' and deemed deserving of an ignominious death upon the scaffold? The answer to this question develops such a state of the heart in those who, like the writer, make this unjust distinction, as will fully justify what they so often say of themselves, via: that 'they have a heart deceitful above all things, and d desperately wicked.' It seems to us that no other heart could be guilty of such a monstrous wrong. A nod what is the answer? Why, simply this: Washington sought freedom for white men—Brown sought it for all, and especially for the blacks. Hence, Washington is dubbed a 'savior'—Brown, a ‘traitor.’ 
‘Strange such difference there should be 
‘Twixt tweedle-dum and tweedle-dee.'
But, perhaps, another reason for this distinction, so honorable to Washington, and so disgraceful to Brown, is found in the fact, that the latter was defeated in his designs in a few hours after they were made public, having impoverished nobody, corrupted nobody's morals, and been the occasion of sacrificing a score of human lives,—while the former engaged in a more ignoble warfare against injustice and oppression, fought a less merciless foe for seven long years, aided by the prayers of the Church and treasure of the State, till he had impoverished the nation, sowed the seeds of the most damning vices broadcast in every part of tube land, sacrificed thousands of 'valuable lives,' and then left the people under the iron rule of a more heartless despotism,—the slave oligarchy of the South,—than that whose yoke he had so long labored to throw off. Thus has it always been in this Christian (?) government. He who has killed one man has been a murderer; he who has killed thousands, a hero.
But what will any thing avail that the writer may say, expressive of sorrow on account of the loss of human life involved in the Harper's Ferry rebellion, when it is known that he highly approves of such destructive and inhuman wars as those of which the Old Testament furnishes the bloody records, in many instances involving the death of thousands of innocent and defenseless women and children? And, also, that he is an admirer of the Government of this country, which, every year, expends more money in preparation to destroy human life than for all useful purposes, and more than any other civilized nation on the earth. And, besides, that when such a man as General Havelock died, who had spent nearly all his life on the field of battle, and had sent thousands before their time to their last account, could open his columns to the most heart-sickening eulogies of the (heroic?) deeds of the great destroyer of 'valuable human lives,' and that, too, when it was known that his very last acts were put forth to sustain and enforce an edict as infamous as any which ever darkened the annals of any nation,—and, to consummate the awful blasphemy, requested the churches to pray that God would raise up a great many men just like him!' O, consistency! Thou art a jewel! But, alas, how few possess thee!
Despite what the writer of the paragraph under examination has said, we are unable to see any thing is the conduct of Brown and his associates half as ridiculous as his contemptuous manner of speaking of their conduct, in view of his well-known position, as above defined. When Washington successfully re-
<c03>
sisted the encroachments of a tyrant three thousand miles away from the scene of active rebellion, or Havelock successfully aids and abets them, the one is coroneted as the savior of his country, and the other canonized as the pattern saint of the world,—while the less fortunate (because less successful) Brown, for attempting to strike an effective blow at the greatest tyranny which ever has cursed any portion of his race, and dared to meet the enemy in his own camp, is made target,—now that he is in a perfectly defenseless and helpless condition,—for every coward in the land to fire at. That kind of heroism which will look on with indifference while a much injured man is struggling hard to recover from his foe his plundered rights,—even though some of his blows should not be well or judiciously aimed,—and then join that foe a kicking, or otherwise abusing him, when he has him completely in his power, might be benefited by listening to a faithful homily upon the text,—'Except roar righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter in to the kingdom of heaven.'
Boston, Oct. 31, 1859. JUSTITIA.

NON-RESISTANCE.
WORCESTER, Oct. 30, 1859.
It is not my purpose, in sending you this communication, to enter into any discussion with some of the master-spirits of the age upon the subject of Non-Resistance, having neither the ability nor inclination for it. Neither is it my expectation to change, in the slightest degree, their opinions about it; for independent thinkers a not the ones to be convinced by argument, being such by the force of their own nature, slightly afflicted by external influences. So far as they are concerned, it would be a useless waste of time to criticize Mr. Foster, Nehemiah Adams, or even newspaper editors; but when we bring into consideration the large class of hearers and readers swayed by impulse, halting between two opinions, influenced in some measure by every argument, such criticism may not be lost.
I am fully aware of the rashness of the attempt to criticize Stephen S. Foster. I know that one breath of his logic would annihilate the whole thread of my argument. But, believing in something higher than logic, something more infallible than the human intellect, I venture into this field.
Mr. Foster believes in neither the rightfulness nor expediency of the sword himself, but he is constantly urging those who do to be consistent with their professions, and wield it in defense of the slave, as there can never be a more righteous cause. This is very true; but the question here arises, how far are we warranted in requiring others to carry out their professions? It seems to me only so far as they are in accordance with our ideas of right. The commission of a wrong deed to promote a good cause is none the more righteous, because the perpetrator believed it to be right, although it may be more justifiable. It is better for a bad law to remain a dead letter on the statute book, until it can be repealed, than that it should be executed to the fullest extent. The people are never consistent. They are always a little better than their creed, a little better than their laws. They act from impulse, not reflection; they do not stop to think, they hire their thinking done for them, by the priest on religious subjects—by the politician on matters of State. Henry Wilson says the leaders are ahead of the people. Probably they are, because more enlightened, but this does not make them better. It should be their function to lead and guide, instead of smother this native impulse, which is ever onward, ever progressive, waiting only to be pressed into the public service to be faithful to its interest.— This is illustrated whenever a fresh aggression is made upon our rights, by the readiness with which the people avow their willingness to make any sacrifice to defend them; but let them listen to an electioneering speech by some stump orator, bow quick they wheel round, and begin to smother their impulses! When Henry Wilson and Charles Allen bolted from the Whig Convention in 1848, the Free Soil party raised one solid phalanx from the spontaneous outpouring of the people's heart.
Consistency and right are not always synonymous terms. It was very inconsistent for Edward Everett, after all his bravado about shouldering his musket to quell a slave insurrection, to go home and help the fugitive on his way, but it was a tribute to his manhood, showing that. When stripped of the husks of the politician, and removed from the lure of office, in the sanctuary of his own home, the heart of the man was beating there. It is inconsistent for Theodore Parker, believing in the rightfulness of the sword, to preach the doctrine of universal love. The man would be thought devoid of common sense who should attempt to cry down his influence because of his inconsistency.
It is idle to talk of consistency when the people are no maddened by injustice as to resort to arms for redress. Revolutions are affected not by consistency, but by trampling law and statute under foot. Whenever the people shall be sufficiently abolition zed to take up arms in behalf of the slave, they will have reached too great a height of moral elevation to seek the extinction of slavery by the same vile means by which it is upheld. The apathy of the North on this subject is not manifested so much by the refusal to resort to the sword, as by the lack of courage or zeal to defend their own rights by tongue and press. If there had been enough Anti-Slavery in this State to have summoned the people en masse to Boston, not as soldiers, but as private citizens, jealous of their own honor, the cowardice that dared not face a little band of Abolitionists in the broad daylight, but sought the cover of night to accomplish its nefarious purposes, would have quailed before the moral indignation of the Common wealth, and Thomas Sims would have been saved.
Men thought to defy the wisdom of Omnipotence, by sacrificing a friendless, defenseless child of God, to secure the greater good, as they deemed it, of sending Charles Sumner to the Senate of the United States, to speak in behalf of four millions. As if heaven followed with her quick retribution, he too was well nigh sacrificed to the burning Moloch of Slavery; and now Massachusetts, 
'With dust on her forehead, and chains on her feet, 'presents to the civilized world the anomalous spectacle of being represented in the councils of the nation by a vacant chair; a living witness that she has no rights the South are bound to respect.
In the meantime, the halls of justice an again invaded by the slave-hunter; United States troops are dispatched to Boston, as if to repel an expected invasion of the ancient Goths and Vandals; the Governor lends his sanction by ordering out the military of the State, if necessary; and Anthony Burns is marched down State street between files of soldiers. Men talked of fighting; disunion was spoken of a possibility; and to-day a Republican Governor presents to the thirsting souls of the rising generation the defender of the Fugitive Slave bill as the divine oracle of Massachusetts. Talk of fighting when we have not yet learned the A. B. C. of Anti-Slavery! Where shall we get tube materials? Shall we go to Salem Street Church, where burning words a spoken for freedom, but when also the slaveholder is welcomed as a Christian brother?
The time is probably long since past, as far as human vision can foresee, for a peaceful settlement of this question, and man must reap the fruit of his own folly and wickedness in thinking to trample with impunity on the express commands of the Almighty in the day of retribution. Can the professed non-resistant consistently welcome its coming? Slavery may be abolished; it is true, but only by trampling on the principles of eternal right and the law of human brotherhood. The rights of four million slaves do not, in the boundless expanse of infinite love, blot out the effeminate sty. Clair, or the savage and benighted Léger, each of whom has rights as sacred in the eye of God
<c04>
as Uncle Tom or Classy. Society recognizes this principle in its treatment of the most hardened criminal.
The world may sneer at non-resistance, but It is unconsciously and unwittingly sneering at what itself deems most sacred, the omnipotence of human love. The time has not yet come for it to be recognized as a distinct principle. A few of us have begun to see the first faint glimmerings of its beacon-lights afar off in the distance, but we have scarcely learned to apply it to our homes and daily lives. We treat it as Specific reform, when it is the universal principle that underlies all reforms. We speak of its impracticability, and forget that the world is advancing towards it all the time in every effort to redeem and. bleeps mankind. No religious sect has ever adopted it, as a principle, except the Society of Friends, and here it has left an enduring record in tube success of William Pent with the Indians. It is true that they have long since dropped this ancient landmark of their faith, disowning their members, not because they take part in a military government, but because they refuse to endorse those who do so by attending their meetings. The world has advanced as they have receded, developing the law of the infinite progression of the human race over the finite organizations of man. It is manifest in the growing distaste for war as civilization increases. They who attempt to refute it by maintaining that it is diametrically opposed to the universal instinct of nature which prompts us to. Resent an injury; have not begun to fathom what the divine attributes of the human soul are. This may be offset by the universal instinct to alleviate the suffering. No matter how degraded, when left to itself, without adducing the argument to show that resentment is the legitimate offspring of the passions, uncontrolled by the moral sentiments. It is admitted by all to be a beautiful theory, and numbers stand ready to embrace it, if they could have sufficient confidence in themselves to be able to stand by it in the day of trial. This feeling is certainly to be respected, because it is consistent, and if it had been acted upon as a general principle in the world's history, we should have no need to preach non-resistance now. Hypocrisy and deceit would not have dethroned justice and virtue. The weakness of human nature cannot change an eternal principle. None of us know who, in the hour of temptation, will prove stronger than Peter when he denied his master, but that is no reason why we should lower the standard, and pronounce it unattainable. Rather should we seek to strengthen our faith by a childlike trust in the infinite good, which shall achieve greater victories over human weakness than physical courage ever won on the battle-field? There was more power in the unarmed defense of the office of the Liberator, by Charles C. Burleigh, against the infuriated mob of the 'gentlemen of property and standing,' than could be wielded by a hundred John Browns with their weapons. Now is the time for those who believe in the supremacy of this moral power to bear witness to its practical efficacy, by being-able to maintain it against the most fearful odds that ever tempted finite man to doubt that the Being who created this universe had not left out of his perfect plan some little chink unfinished, which needs his inventive skill to fill up.
One of the most incontrovertible proofs of the truth of non-resistance is the fact, that no argument is ever brought forward to oppose it, which claims to be based on the principles of absolute right; but, on the contrary, is composed of ifs and ands enough to frame an imaginary world. This is also displayed by those who counsel others to do what they could not. What would now be the state of the anti-slavery cause, if you, Mr. Garrison, and Abby Kelley Foster, and a host of others, had not borne aloft the banner of immediate emancipation, while the rest of us were quietly folding the robes of our Orthodoxy about us, and branding you with the term' infidel?
‘The frantic mother, Handing beside her dying child, is not expected to exhibit the same calmness she would at her neighbor's; and yet, according to the cold calculations of human logic, why shouldn't she? All her religious faith, founded on the highest convictions of her nature, can scarcely support her against the strong temptation to regret that maternal love had ever been awakened in her bosom, and that babe had ever drawn the breath of life. Years of struggle pass over her, and the lessons of deep inward experience that angel child has taught her, lead her to say with loving trust,' Father, thy will be done. 'So when we see justice trampled in the street, our individual rights assailed, oppression filling our ears with its wail and groans, scarcely can we recognize the divine requirements of that principle which forbids us to strike down the oppressor that his victim may go free, which commands us to overcome evil with good; but he who remains firm will hear above the din and roar of arms, the silvery notes of that clarion voice which came to proclaim peace on earth, and good will to men, saying,' Inasmuch as thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over more.' SARAH E. WALL.

From the American Unitarian Quarterly Journal.
THE! BATHOS OF EULOGY.
BY BEV. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
A funeral sermon is almost safe from criticism. The tenderness which surrounds and shields even the faults of the departed protects also the folly and vanity of the funeral sermon. As no one would criticize the folds of a mourner's dress, so we avoid speaking with severity of the bad logic and bad taste of the funeral discourse. But this leniency may perhaps be carried too far. And we have decided, after a little hesitation, to point out some of the bad examples in the late sermon and address on Mr. Choate by his pastor, Nehemiah Adams, D. D. 
Dr. Adams seems to have felt that he bad got hold of an opportunity which he must make the most of. It was an occasion to glorify his favorite doctrines, his own denomination, and himself. And he fell into the very common mistake of overdoing the matter. He overdid the pathos till it became bathos; he overdid the sentiment till it became sentimentalism; he scattered the flowers of rhetoric in profusion, but some were artificial and some faded. He struggled so violently to do justice to the occasion, that all natural flow and freedom were lost in schoolgirl enthusiasm and sophomoric rhetoric. The friends of Mr. Choate and of Orthodoxy must have been somewhat mortified by such a display. One Orthodox gentleman said to us, I was quite ashamed of it. I thought it must seem to the Unitarians present, that we so seldom have a great man in our churches here, that we could not make too much of him.
Mr. Choate was a man of great intellectual ability, but of a sort easily understood. He had an acute understanding, rapid and full of resource, a playful fancy, and a great gift of words. The first of then faculties made him a great jury pleader; the last two made him a very popular orator. He was on the side in politics which is the most popular in our mercantile community. The gentlemen among us whose political creed consists in the single article of hatred to anti-slavery were delighted to hear this sentiment expressed for them in the polished rhetoric of Mr. Choate. For all these reason, Mr. Choate was much esteemed, and had an extensive reputation. But he had too much good sense ever to suppose himself a great man in the sense in which Dr. Adams has paraded him in his eulogy. And we think the friends of Mr. Choate must feel somewhat sorry, in their hearts, that his own modesty and just estimate of himself were not imitated by his pastor. The absurd exaggeration of the eulogy throws a shade of ridicule over the subject, which he did not deserve.
But the striking peculiarity of the discourse is its bathos. Dr. Adams's mind has this quality in a high degree, and it introduces a comic element into all his compositions. He makes us laugh, even in an argument for Eternal Punishment, or in a funeral discourse. This is because, having as essentially prosaic mind, he is always trying to be fanciful and poetic. In the midst of his loftiest flights, he drops down suddenly, with a heavy thump, into tube most commonplace prose. For example: 'This week, the waning moon, unless the clouds conceal from her the sight, will look upon a vessel making toward this
<c05>
harbor, freighted with a form a precious.' etc. Who but Dr. Adams would have thought of inserting the proviso concerning the clouds? But Dr. Adams is pre-Raphaelite; he must introduce all the, minutest specifications. He informs us, when enumerating the presents he bad received from Mr. Choate, that he gave him one work in sixteen volumes, another in six, another in four, another in, two, and finally a royal octavo edition of Wordsworth in one. It is a little strange that he does not add them, and tell us how many they amounted an in all. After calling upon the 'cities and villages,' the 'halls of learning and halls of justice,' the forum, bar, and pulpit,' to weep over him, in a strain almost epic, he tells us that Mr. Choate used to offer him a chair in an incomparable manner, and to give him a piece of meat or potato at dinner ‘in a way that nothing so gross as language can describe.'
"In the beginning: of the funeral address. Dr. Adams seems to think it strange that so great a man as Mr. Choate should have to die. He inquires how it is that, with his peculiar powers as a jury lawyer, he could not escape the doom of all living. For, says Dr. Adams, 'Could no judge be found who, in this cause, would rule out his motion? Was there no jury whom he could persuade, or at least divide? Alas! Would not even the Executioner pay him courtesy?' It seems to us that this is the most cold-blooded image on record. No man feeling sorrow for his friend could possibly have got up this picture, representing him as being tried lord his life, and, after having unsuccessfully tried to confuse the jury and mislead the judge, falling at last into the hands of tube hangman?
There is one good thought in the sermon, which is nearly spoiled by this peculiar tendency of Dr. Adams's images to founder. He says that it would have been natural to regard-such a fervid genius as that of Choate as belonging to a more Southern climate. The idea is a good one; and if Dr. Adams could have left in when he bad once attend it, he would have said an excellent thing. But having stated that we should naturally have selected the shores of the Mediterranean for his birthplace, he adds, that, if not so, we should have located it in one of our Southern States, and that we are surprised to find that he was a an vie of New England. But having said this, Dr. Adams would not stop. He proceeds to inform us that Mr. Choate was not even a native of Rhode Island and Connecticut, 'with their more southern aspect.' Certainly, Rhode Island and Connecticut an a little farther south than Massachusetts, but certainly no one supposes that the genius of their people is any more fervid on that account. But even yet Dr. Adams could not let the thought go. He goes on to say that Mr. Choate was not born in New Hampshire; the reason being, that New Hampshire bad already produced Daniel Webster, and had no right to another great man. He was not born in Vermont, nor in Maine, though the first had several 'beautiful nooks and glens' that would have answered for that purr-pose, and though the second had ‘incomparable breadth and length,'—incomparable, we suppose the accurate Doctor means, in relation to the rest of New England. So, finally, by this process of elimination, he arrives at the fact that he was born in! Massachusetts. ‘How good it seems to us, in Massachusetts, that our soil and climate and our social life produced him! We will give thanks for this.' Why we should be more thankful because the soil of Massachusetts produced him than we should be if the soil of Connecticut had produced him, we do not know. The people of Massachusetts take just as much interest in Daniel Webster as if he had been born here. But we suppose the inexorable laws of rhetoric require this gratitude, and so we will be grateful.
Another remarkable manifestation in this discourse is the self-esteem of the writer. The sermon throughout seems to say: 'What a great man I am in having such a great man for an admirer and parishioner!' He gives it as one reason for believing that Mr. Choate was saved, that one of his last public efforts was a speech at the festival given as a compliment to Dr. Adams. Another thing which makes Dr. Adams hope, is his saying,' Any man who goes to perdition under tab preaching, goes on bus own responsibility.' Whoever bad such a high opinion of his preaching is, he thinks, pretty sure of going to heaven. He gives a full account of Mr. Choate's gifts made to himself, which seems a rather plain intimation to his other parishioners what they a to do in order to stand high in his esteem. ‘The intervals were not long,' he says, 'between some expression and token of his remembrance.' He tells how Mr. Choate wrote to him from Washington that ‘the Sabbath bells do not a little aggravate homesickness. 'Stated Gospel privileges, of the most Orthodox kind, went we suppose, to be had in Washington; but he could not hear Dr. Nehemiah Adams preach there. But the oddest of all is the Doctor's inserting in full, in the midst of the solemnities of a funeral address, a note written to him by Mr. Choate, presenting him with a volume of Wordsworth! He says he supposes few men ever wrote' just such a letter under tube same circumstances. It is safe to say that no minister but himself ever produced such a letter under such circumstances. The Doctor contrived, beside all this, to get into his funeral address the fact that Mr. Choate once borrowed some ideas of his as the foundation of a speech at New York. Clerical vanity has sometimes gone far enough, but never quite so far before as to tell in a funeral sermon and address over a great man how many books he had given his minister, how be had borrowed his minister's ideas, how be had praised his minister's preaching, how he bad spoken at his minister's festival, how be had written compliments from Washington for his minister, and how he had sent his minister a note, on the birth of a child, with a royal octavo edition of Wordsworth. 
Another curious feature in this ‘Discourse and Address' is its vacillation and hesitation in regard to the religious character of its subject. Was he a good man or not? On this point Dr. Adams, with all his opportunities, derived from votive offerings and the like, does not seem quite to have made up his mind. Sometimes he seems to think him a very good man, a man to be loved and honored exceedingly. He calls him ‘Great Work of God! Great Ornament of human kind! Great Friend!' He thinks that one of the great joys of heaven will be to meet him there, provided he goes to heaven. He was a man to be loved and respected very highly. He defends his moral and religious character, praises his forgiving spirit, his affectionate disposition, his tenderness toward all creatures, and wrote to him a letter at Halifax to say that one of his own fondest hopes concerning heaven was to know and love him there. Yet he is by no means sure that Mr. Choate has gone to heaven, but thinks possibly he may have gone the other way. ‘If be complied with the Gospel of our Lord Jesus, he is saved.' ‘Did he accept pardon and salvation offend to him through the blood of Jesus? If not.' etc. ‘If saved, our friend is saved, not as a great man, but as a pardoned sinner.' ‘Whether he did or did not experience that new birth, without which no man can see the kingdom of God, we are not called upon to decide.' The highest kind of evidence,' he says, is wanting. According to Dr. Adams, therefore, though Mr. Choate was an exceedingly good man; God may possibly have sent him to hell. He has not the' highest kind of evidence’ to the contrary. But if goodness is not the 'highest kind of evidence,' what is? And if Mr. Choate was not a good man, but only a great one, what means all this eulogy from the Christian pulpit? Dr. Adams was a traitor to his Master if he stood up before the community to honor so highly, and to commend to tube young and old so earnestly, one whom he did not believe to be a good man. But if be did believe him a good man, why this uncertainty in regard to his salvation?
The truth is that Dr. Adams was placed in this uncomfortable dilemma by his narrow tests of Christian character, and by his narrow views of the conditions of future existence. Mr. Choate had none of the technical marks of piety. He was not a member of the church, and had never been regularly converted. He was not a 'professor.' The highest evidence of Christianity was therefore wanting; for this, according to the Doctor's theory, is not goodness, but a profession of religion, church membership and a technical experience. He could not therefore with propriety be regarded as certainly in heaven; his pastor did not like to think of him as having gone the other way. Dr. Adams therefore was left in tube absurd position of pronouncing eulogies from the Christian pulpit, such as should only be attend over the most saintly characters, over one about whose essential Christianity he was altogether uncertain.
If there can be anything more painfully feeble than this attitude, it is the kind of evidence on which he finally relies, in the absence of tube highest kind' His grounds of hope for the salvation of his parishioner and not his goodness of heart and life, hut the following:—
1. Mr. Choate said that any one who went to per-
<c06>
Diction under Dr. Adams's preaching went on his own responsibility.
2. Mr. Choate said, concerning Daniel Webster's salvation,' I believe he was right; he comprehended the scheme.' The logic in Dr. Adams's mind seems to be this:—a man is saved by the scheme of salvation. He who comprehends the scheme is in the way of salvation. And he who believes that another is right because' he comprehends the scheme,' is himself likely to be right, too.
3. The last public effort of Mr. Choate was a speech made at Dr. Adams's anniversary.
4. He believed in the doctrine of eternal punishments. Dramas tell an anecdote in regard to this, which we believe runs in a somewhat different form on Court Street.
But what futile and empty tests are these to bring forward on such a subject! The New Testament everywhere makes life, patient continuance in well-doing, being faithful in a few things, over coming the world, the tests of character. In the last day, the sheep on the right hand are those who have been their Master in then form of the humblest human sufferer.' The highest kind of evidence,' according to the Gospel, is not that we have made a profession of religion, that we can relate a past experience, that we have been converted at some former period, that we have' comprehended the scheme'; nor that we have made a speech at our minister's anniversary, and sent him presents of books with' intervals not long between'; but that we have loved righteousness and hated iniquity, that we have taken in the stranger, fed the hungry, and clothed the naked (even though they were fugitives from slavery); that we have dwelt in love, and so dwelt in God.
There are many other things in this little pomp let upon which we might remark. These are sentimentalism in it which we also find in the other writings of its author. It is in accordance with human nature that the man who publicly defends a system which separates husbands and wives, parents and children, should be moved with tender sympathy at the feeling which induced Mr. Choate to replace a switch near the tree from which he took it; or that he should be glad to see some bugs have a fair start in life by being put on their feet, who argues in his South-Side View of Slavery that God does not intend the African race to have any start in life at all.
We cannot conclude this notice without asking those who have assisted at these eulogies and commemorations, whether they think that the effect of them, on the whole, will be good. It was not the moral character, the domestic virtue, or the household affections of Mr. Choate which were celebrated; it was his great talents as a lawyer and public speaker. It was not because of any great public services, any great good done to the State; for his constant occupation in the labors of his profession left him no time for such services. His greatest exploits (the defense of Terrell, for example,) could hardly be regarded as of great benefit to the community. But, in his case, the most splendid demonstrations of public gratitude, which should have been reserved for great public benefactors, were awarded to powers of intellect, to oratory, and gifts of speech. It was natural and proper for the Judges and the Bar to lament their brightest ornament, for the Democratic Party to mourn the loss of its most eminent advocate, and for Dramas to grieve at the death of his most distinguished parishioner. But there the matter should have stopped; for, by going further, the community said to its young men,' Not by public services, but by shining ability and professional success, you will earn our highest honors.' This is what Boston has said to her young men, and it is something which cannot be unsaid by all the efforts of her pulpits and teachers for the next ten years. But it is a peculiarity of our good city to carry everything of the sort too far. It never can do a thing without overdoing it.

LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms as may suit different classes of purchases Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health measure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered. who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education.—will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R., by which communication may be, had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Princes reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information inquire of E.D. DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—to.
HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Bred. Draper's advertisement as above, offerings for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each; withal view to offer them for sale to person’s friendly to our distinguishing principles, which may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy without people, and desiring to give their children the advantage of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built: up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success.—Practical Christian.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H.PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeti9ng, comprising Walton’s, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plays Kidderminster’s, & c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Backings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Matting.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept. 16 tf
