THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLILSHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, VIZ:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 3.BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1859.WHOLE NUMBER, 1576.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY.
The annual meeting of the Hartford branch of the American Tract Society was held in that city a few days since-Deacon William W. Turner in the chair. After a few prefatory remarks, Dea Turner introduced Hon. Thomas S. William, President of the American Tract Society, to the meeting
Judge Williams said he had in view of his connection with the Society, no apology to offer far the defence of it before that audience. The gentlemen who formed the publishing committee of the Society were men of well known piety and worth; he had only to mention Rev. Dr. Justine Edwards, Rev. Dr. Milner and Rev. Dr. Knox, whose names were a guarantee for all he could claim for them.
The Society has, in the past forty years, done so much good, extended its area of usefulness so widely, and made its power and influence so fully understood; has gained so much praise from all quarters, that at length, it might well be said of it: ‘Woe unto you, when all speak well of you!’ Sometime since certain men, who lacked evangelical piety, began to complain that the Society did not interest itself directly in the matter of slavery. But slavery is a subject that enters into politics, provokes discussion, is most exciting when entered upon, and in regard to which, many good men widely differ. If the Society; were to begin to discuss the question, where should it stop? If it laid down rules to guide the masters, it must also publish guides to the servants;-should they say to them, ‘Servants, obey your masters!’ or should they advise them that all men were born free and equal, and that it was their right to take they liberty if they could? Some time since, the Independent newspaper was established under the care of a man well known to be a thorough Abolitionist, and that paper has constantly abused the Society; it stated again and again that the Society was in possession of large funds that were unwisely and improperly used. This statement was made so often that a committee was at length appointed to inquire into facts, and after a careful examination of the affairs and books of the Society, they reported that it was conducted upon principles and in a manner upon which no improvement could be made. Those who condemn the publishing committee for not complying with one clause of this report, condemn another clause-namely, the clause on the finances-in the same report.
At the tone of the report of this committee, the whole South become alarmed; letters were daily received from colporteurs, agents and ministers of the gospel, protesting against the publication of anti-slavery trans. Of one denomination in Virginia, 100,000 communicants broke off all connection with the Society; it became evident that, if a sectional course were pursued, the whole South would be lost. It has been said that right must be done, without consideration of consequences; but right sometimes depends upon consequences. We hear ministers at the North preaching vehemently against the sin of slavery. Ask these men to go South, and labor there for its extermination, and they will tell you no, they dare not, for they might lost their heads if they should. It would have done no good to publish tracts against slavery, for South they would not be allowed, and North, where slavery does not exit, they would be useless. The original report, ordering the publication of such tracts, was at first endorsed by the Society; but, at the next annual meeting, the publishing committee were most emphatically endorsed. Pride had said: ‘Do not yield to dictates from the South!’ but our hearts had said: ‘Go on in the successful path you have followed for thirty years, engaged in a great, catholic, national work!’
Judge Parsons followed-The Society has only produced good fruits its apparent fruits for the year just ended were better than at any previous time-since its organization. The officers of the Society have been abused simply because they have refused to publish tracts that they sincerely believe to be contrary to the principles of true religion. Its former friends have changed their course, and not the Society. It was said here the other evening, Society refused to publish a tract made up, by a Mr. Wolcott of Providence, entirely of texts from Scripture. The circumstances connected with the sending of this tract to New York showed that it was nut actually intended for publication, but only as a test of the Society, and it was rejected; but the Society is publishing a New Testament, with notes, for circulation everywhere, that contain all these texts, freely commented upon.
The speaker wished that every one who chose to give his money to the Boston society would do so freely, and he would say ‘God speed!’ to it. But are you certain that the money will not get to New York after all? The Boston Society it, as yet, but a subordinate branch of the National one. At their meeting last year, they put a resolution, withdrawing from the parent society, into the hands of a committee, to report at the next annual meeting, no further action being taken in the matter. But, send to Boston all the money you wish to, and God go with it. The Boston movement seems to be only intended to break up the National organization.
This subject of slavery is one upon which the best of men lose their temper. Dr. Bacon lost his temper when, at the meeting in New York, the great majority was given against his views, and said:-The devil will not win in the long run!’ Dr. Beth one ‘spoke right out in meeting’ when he said that the majority did not choose to he called devils. Dr. Bacon said that be should not leave the Society; that he was a life member, and should stick by, year after year, fighting it to the death, and leave the combating it as legacy to his children.
The Boston society did an unfair thing when they pitched upon the time for their meeting just before the season when the annual collections of the National society were to he made. They should have fixed the date of their meeting more generously. What if this new society gets into the country towns all over the land? Like anti-masonry, anti-slavery, and other similar agitations, the result would be an overthrow of what was conservative, national and time-honored, and must end in ruin to the cause.
Judge Ellsworth now spoke. He said that he was not a defender of or apologist for slavery, or its extension, and be wished at this time to place himself right upon the record. He had ever felt that human slavery was a great and unmitigated wrong and calamity. Its spirit has dominion in oar national councils, and has even entered into the church, making the hired ministers of the gospel afraid. The Judge eulogized the Society at some length, following mainly the paths of the previous speakers. As to the nature of the tracts to be published, he would leave the matter to those experienced men who had, for years, made it a study, as he would go to a competent lawyer if he wished to litigate, or to a physician of good standing if he were ill. The Boston society may, inn its pride, publish one anti-slavery tract, but even that is doubtful. He would say to them: ‘if you can abolish slavery, I am with you with my whole heart!’ for I hate and detest it; but the discussion of slavery cannot enter into every interest and relation of life. To bring, it in here is not a thing of Christian practicability.
<c02>
THE TRIUMPH OF REPUBLICANISM WILL DISSOLVE THE UNION!
In the U. S. Senate, a few days since, Mr. Iverson, of Georgia, in the course of his speech on the bill for a railroad to the Pacific, said:-
The election of a Northern President, upon a sectional and anti-slavery issue, will be considered cause enough to justify secession. Let the Senator from New York, [Mr. Seward,] or any other man avowing the sentiments and policy enunciated by him in his Rochester speech, be elected President of the United States, and, in my opinion, there are more than one of the Southern States that would take immediate steps towards separation. And, sir, I am free to declare, then, in the Senate, that whenever such an event shall occur, for one, I shall be for disunion, and shall, if alive, exert all the powers I may have in urging upon the people of my State the necessity and propriety of an immediate separation. I know, sir, that disunion is considered by many as an impossible thing; many think so at the South, and all the Northern people feel assured that the South can never be driven out of the Union, no matter what may be the aggressions upon their constitutional rights. I trust and believe that they will find themselves mistaken, whenever a proper occasion occurs.
Sir, it is not so difficult a matter to dissolve this Union as many believe. Let the Republican party of the North obtain possession of the government, and pass a Wilmot proviso; or abolish slavery in the District of Columbia; or repeal the Fugitive Slave Law; or reform the Supreme Court, and annul the Dred Scott decision; or do any other act infringing upon the rights, impairing the equality, or wounding the honor of the slave States, or let them elect a President upon the avowed declaration and principle that freedom and slavery cannot exist together in the Union, and that one or the other must give way, and be sacrificed to the other, and the Union would be dissolved in six months. I do not believe, however, that such a result could or would be brought about by a general convention of’ all the slave States; it is doubtful whether all of them could be got into convention for any cause, and if they could, it is still more doubtful whether they could be harmonized and made to move together toward so momentous an end. But, sir, let a single State move upon the happening of any of these contingencies; let her swing out of the Union, and she would of necessity very soon drag every other slave State out with her or after her.
Mr. HOUSTON (Texas) spoke in favor of the El Paso route, and asked, ‘Why rule out the South?’ During the twelve or fourteen years he had had a seat here the manifestations of sectional jealousy had caused him deep an unspeakable regret. He had never heard that chord struck without pain. It seemed to him as if gentlemen whose talents should tend to perpetuate the Union have devised causes of disagreement between the North and the South. When he first heard the cry of disunion, it was in the other House. He thought it treason-he though the individual who uttered it should be cruised. As well may you hope to have a healthy’ patient, if you cut away the main artery of his life. Will you cut the Mississippi in two? Who will have its sources, and who its mouth? And will the great West suffer itself to be bereft of either? Gentlemen have spoken for the South as if they held its destinies in the hollow of their hand. He himself was born in the South. No man had broader interests there than he, for his all was there. Thus he, too, represented the South, and denied the right of any one to speak for the [South, if he can give his views a negation. There are those in the South who pray for harmony and union-men strong in holy fealty for their country and the Constitution. It would be easier for one State to come back than for others to go out with it. The moment it goes out, it assumes an attitude of rebellion. Let the wise men of the South turn their heads toward the Union, not criminating and recriminating, but reflecting. Gentlemen of the North, abstain from bitterness on the Southern institution. While it is the policy of the North to eschew slavery, it is the necessity’ of the South to maintain it. He did not join in the talk of Southern rights. The South has no rights except those of the North, and the North none except those of the South. It is a cant phrase, tending to inflame the popular passions. As regards the negroes, what better use can be made of them? We did not bring them here, and did not engage in the slave trade till recently, and, said be, ‘I brand that as an act of unmitigated infamy.’ He concluded his remarks by counseling the two sections to live in harmony, cultivating the advantages God has given us as a united nation.
Mr. IVERSON said he had no desire to dissolve a Union that would promote the interests of all sections alike, but a Union administered on a sectional basis by the demon of Abolitionism he would crush into atoms, and trample on as the varies reptile. Mr. Iverson proceeded in a tone of severity on Mr. Houston, saying that he (Iverson) never heard a Union speech from a Southern man without a suspicion that it related to the Presidency; also, that Texas had placed Mr. Houston in retirement on account of the intensity of feeling exhibited by him in favor of the Union at the sacrifice of his own section, and that he (Iverson) was glad of it.
Mr. DOOLITTLE asked Mr. Iverson if he could name any prominent man of the Republican party who proposes to put down slavery by the action of. the Federal Government.
Mr. IVERSON replied that he knew that prominent politicians of the North disclaim such an intention; but he looked upon that as a fraud and a pretence; he looked to their nets. He referred to the Rochester speech, and said that Mr. Seward had too much good sense to believe what he said-that the South would insist on establishing slavery in the North. That was all humbug. He (Iverson) believed, as he did in his own existence, that it is the settled design of the Northern States to break down slavery in the Southern States.

THE SLAVE CODE OF MISSOURI.
The Missouri Democrat publishes the following as a specimen of the sanguinary slave code of that State:
ARTICLE 1st OF CRIMES, ACT, Sec. 6.-Every person, bond or free, who shall be convicted of actually raising a rebellion or insurrection of slaves, free negroes or mulattoes in this State, shall suffer death.
Sec. 7.-Every slave who shall, at any time, rebel or make insurrection, or shall plot or conspire the death of any person, or commit arson in furtherance of such conspiracy, and shall, by an overt act, attempt to accomplish such purpose, shall suffer death.
Sec. 8.-Every free person who shall aid or assist in any such rebellion or insurrection, or shall furnish arms, or do any other overt act, in furtherance of such rebellion or insurrection, shall be punished by death.
See. 9.-Every person, bond or free, who shall be convicted of consulting, plotting, conspiring, or attempting to rake any rebellion or insurrection of negroes or mulattoes, bond or free, or to commit any crime in furtherance thereof, within this State, although no overt act be done to accomplish such purpose, shall he punished, if a freeman, by imprison-
<c03>
ment in the penitentiary for a period not less than two years; and if a slave, shall be punished in the manner prescribed in the thirty-sixth section of the ninth article of this act. (Any number of stripes on the bare back, not exceeding thirty-nine.)
Sec. 10.-Every person who shall publish, circulate or utter, by writing, speaking or printing, or by any picture or device, any statements, arguments or opinions, the tendency of which is to excite any slave, or other colored persons in this State, to insolence or insubordination towards his master or owner, or to rebellion, insurrection or murder, or to escape from his master or owner, shall, upon conviction, be imprisoned in the penitentiary not more than five years: and upon conviction for the second offence, shall be imprisoned in the penitentiary not less than five years.
Sec. 11. If any person shall bring, introduce, or circulate, or cause to be brought, introduced or circulated, or shall aid or assist, or be in any manner instrumental in bringing, introducing or circulating within this State any printed or written paper, pamphlet or circular, whether written or printed in or out of this State, calculated to excite insurrection, revolt, conspiracy or resistance, on the part of slaves, negroes, or free persons of color in this State, against the citizens of this State, or any part of them, or calculated to induce or encourage slaves to escape from their owners or masters, such person so offending shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall upon conviction be punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary, not less than two years for the first offence, and not less than ten years for a second offence.

NO TIME TO ATTEND TO TRIFLES!
In the Legislature of Massachusetts, on Friday last, on the presentation of a memorial signed by William C. Nell and other colored citizens of the State, asking for the vindication and protection of their rights, Mr. Spofford, of Newburyport, said:-
I do not rise, Mr. Speaker, to enter upon any lengthy discussion of this idle question which has come up here to-day. Life is not long enough to discharge that and the other duties which devolve upon me here. But, sir, I rise to protest, at this early stage of the session, against the introduction of this agitating question of slavery. It came here, sir, at the last session, at an early hour, and from the beginning to the close it drew its hateful length along here, occupying more time than was devoted to any other single subject of legislation; engendered more ill-feeling, profiting nothing. Now, sir, that is the attitude of this question at the present time. There is nothing to be gained by the petition; nothing whatever is asked.
The gentleman from Greenfield has presented the petition here, and desires that it may he referred to the Committee on Federal Relations. Well, Mr. Speaker, suppose it be so referred-in what possible way can it effect any good for the black men of the Commonwealth, concerning whom the gentleman from Greenfield seems to be so much excited, and so tender in his sympathies? The Committee may report a series of resolutions, denouncing the Federal Union and the Supreme Court of the United States, but pray tell me, how will that avail anything to elevate, politically, socially, morally or religiously, the black men of the Commonwealth? You may denounce the State of South Carolina because she will not permit the black citizens of Massachusetts to enter her State, except at the risk of imprisonment; but, gentlemen, does this avail anything for the black man here? I protest not; and I declare to you, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, that the people of the Commonwealth demand at your hands more practical legislation than this.
Nor, let it be imputed to me, that because I am opposed to the agitation of this subject, I have not sympathies as warm as any man for all who suffer. or are oppressed. Sir, not merely from party association, but from the natural instincts of my own heart, I am a Democrat. So far as I can, I would do every thing to elevate, to improve, to educate the black man, here and elsewhere. But I do believe, gentlemen, that it is idle, that it is disrespectful to the Commonwealth, while there are such untold labors to be performed by this Legislature, for us to waste the time on these fanciful questions. I rise, therefore, for the purpose of submitting a motion that, when the question is taken, it be taken by yeas and nays, in order that the people of the Commonwealth may know who the Representatives are who are disposed to continue, throughout the session, a constant and useless agitation of the slavery question.

SELECTIONS.
From the New York ‘Anglo-African’ Magazine.
THE NEGRO RACE.
The wealth, the intellect, the legislation, (State and Federal,) the pulpit, and the science of America, have concentrated on no one point so heartily as in the endeavor to write down the negro as something less than a man: yet at the very moment of the triumph of this effort, there runs through the marrow of those who make it an unaccountable consciousness, an aching dread, that this noir fainéant, this great black sluggard, is somehow endowed with forces which are rather felt than seen, and which may, in ‘some grim revel,’
‘Shake the pillars of the commonweal!’
And there is indeed reason for this ‘aching dread.’ The negro is something more than mere endurance; he is a force. And when the energies that now imbrute him exhaust themselves-as they inevitably must-the force which he now expends in resistance will cause him to rise; his force can hardly be measured to-day; the opinions regarding him are excessive; his foes estimate him too low, his friends, perhaps, too high: besides, there is not a-wanting among these latter, in spite of their own good feelings, that ‘tribe idolatry’ which regards him as ‘not quite us.’ Twenty-five years ago, in the heat of the conflict which terminated in the Emancipation Act of Great Britain, there was held an anti-slavery meeting in the city of Glasgow, at which a young black made a speech of such fashion that it ‘brought down the house.’ He was followed by the eccentric but earnest and eloquent William Anderson, a minister of the Relief denomination. Dr. Ward law, with silver tongue, had spoken, and George Thompson had revelled in his impetuous eloquence. Rev. Mr. Anderson’s subject was a minor one in the programme, a sort of side dish; yet he began, continued and ended in one of the most extraordinary bursts of eloquence, wit and sarcasm ever heard in Dr. Wardlaw’s chapel; people were carried away. At the end of the meeting, a friend congratulated Mr. Anderson, and casually asked how it was that he had got off such a grand speech? ‘Hech, mon!’ said Mr. Anderson, ‘d’ye think I was gain to be beaten by a black?’
But although we cannot fairly estimate the forces of the negro, we may approximate them. A handful of English subdued Ireland, and English rule rather than English arms has so impenetrate the Celtic mind with oppression, that the only resistance to this oppression in the middle of the 10th
<c04>
century culminates in Smith O’Brien, Thomas F. Meagher, and JOHN MITCHEL! Compare these with Sam Ward, Frederick Douglass, or those who fought at Christians, or the man who suffered himself to be scourged to death in Tennessee, rather than betray his associate insurrectionists.
The negro, under the yoke of slavery, has increased, without additions made by emigration, as rapidly, during the last forty years, as have the whites in the whole country, aided by an immense immigration and the increase of the immigrants; and this increase of the negro in America, unlike that of the Irish in Ireland, is of a strong, healthy, durable stock. Now, let the European immigration diminish, and the African slave trade revive-both which events are in sees-and the next forty years will present us with the slave States containing ten millions of whites, and nearly fifteen millions of slaves: and the proportion of the blacks to the whites in the United States, which is now one seventh, will be nearly one half. In that event, it requires no prophet to foresee that the Underground Railroad and the Christian Religion-the two great safety-valves for the restless and energetic among the slaves-will be utterly incompetent to put off that event which was brought about by bloodshed in Hayti, and by timely legislation in the British West Indies.
In 1850, a black man, insulted by a white boy in the streets of Sacramento, mildly resented by pushing the boy away: a white man passing by with a saw in his hand, caught the black by the wrist, and sawed his hand off. The black went before a magistrate to complain, when the minister of justice declined receiving the complaint, on the ground that no redress could he obtained. In 1858, we find a magistrate in California, in defiance of statute law, admitting the testimony of black men, and in the same year, a bill to prevent the further immigration of blacks was defeated in the Legislature of that State. In the debate on the subject, a member stated that ‘the six thousand free blacks in California were an industrious people, with six millions of dollars in personal and real estate.’ This is about one thousand dollars to each individual-a sum three times as great as the census of 1850 gives to the individuals composing the farming population of Vermont.
In a school exhibition in the city of New York, in December, 1858, there were productions from twenty white and one colored ward schools; of the thirty prizes awarded, three were gained by the colored school; which may be thus formularized for the use of that distinguished archaeologist, craniologist and ethnologist, Dr. Nott, of Alabama:-3/10: 1/20: black children’s intellect: white children’s intellect. In the Concourse of the colleges of. France, in 1858, the laurels once worn by Abelard fell upon the brown of a black youth from Hayti, M. Faubert, who? <illegible> winning other prizes. It is well known that not a few white Americans are among the students of the French colleges; and none of these having yet won this distinguished honor, we must again formularize for Dr. Nott-0/0: 1:: white American students in Paris black Haytien students in Paris.
Here, then, we have the vital force, the physical force, and some slight inklings of the yet undeveloped mental power of the negro. The negro is a constant quantity; other races may be, and are, variables; he is positive and reliable, and seems fixed so. The panic of 1857 was arrested by the cotton crop, and even at this moment, when the West is bankrupt, with its ‘enchanted’ free laborers and ‘enchanted’ stores of grain, the vitality of trade is maintained by the products of black labor, which it is the ambition of the so-called Republican party to sweep from the land. What a glorious destiny awaits the negro when the soil now fertilized by his agony and bloody sweat, shall teem under his energies, renewed and developed by freedom! For
‘Freedom hand in hand with labor,
Walked strong and brave;
On the forehead of his neighbor,
No man written slave!’
The negro is the ‘coming man,’ heralded by Dr. Arnold. The European race would seem to have reached its destined development-of Arts in Greece, of Jurisprudence in Rome, and of Industrial Economics in England and the United States. To advance still further, the tide of civilization requires what the great commoner prescribed for Ireland-new blood. And whence can this be procured, unless from a race hitherto unmixed in the current of civilization?

THE GREAT NEGRO TRAGEDIAN.
The following notice of the negro actor, Ira Aldridge, is from the St. Petersburg correspondent of Le Nord, under date of Dec. 5:-
‘The success of the negro actor, Ira Aldridge, has been wonderful. At his debut, people were curious to see an Othello who needed neither crape nor pomade to blacken his face. Many expected tears of laughter rather than tears of emotion, when they learned that Iago and Desdemona would reply to him in German. [The absence of an English troupe forced him to play with German actors.] Those who counted on this were strangely deceived. From his appearance on the stage, the African artist completely captivated his audience by his harmonious and resonant voice, and by a style full of simplicity, nature and dignity. For the first time we had seen a tragic hero talk and walk like common mortals, without declamation and without exaggerated gesture. We forgot that we were in a theatre, and followed the drama as if it had been a real transaction.
The scene in the Third Act, when the sentiment of jealousy in roused in the ferocious Moor, is the triumph of Aldridge. At the first word of the wily insinuation, you see his eyes kindle; you feel the tears in his voice when he questions Iago, then the deep sobs which stifle it; and finally, when he is persuaded that his wretchedness is complete, a cry of rage, or rather a roar like that of a wild beast, starts from his abdomen. I still seem to hear that cry; it chilled us with fear, and made every spectator shudder. Tears wet his cheeks; his mouth foamed, and his eyes flashed fire. I have never seen an artist identify himself so perfectly with the character which he represents. An actor told me that he saw him sob for some moments after his exit from the scene. Everybody, men and women, wept. Boileau was right in saying to actors: ‘Weep yourselves, if yon would make others weep.’ Rachel, in the Fourth Act of Let Horace, is the only artist who ever produced so great an effect. At the first representation, the poor Desdemona was so horrorstricken at the terrible expression of the Moor, that she sprang from the bed and fled, shrieking with fright.
In spite of his stony nature, Aldridge can adapt himself to those scenes which require calmness and subdued passion. In Shylock, to see him trembling with fear and indignation before the tribunal which is endeavoring to force Christianity upon him, makes one of those impressions which arc never effaced. The severest critics find bat one fault with him-that, when speaking to characters at the back of the stage, be has the bad habit of turning his hack to the public. The director remonstrated with him, but it was of no avail.’
<c05>
CRIME AMONG THE COLORED POPULATION.
NEW YORK, Nov. 19th 1858.
To the Editor of the New York Times.
SIR: In your paper of 17th instant, I find a ‘Retrospect of a Year’s Crime,’ taken from the First Metropolitan Police Report, in which the ‘total number of arrests’ is stated to have been ‘60,885’; and, after a statement of ‘the nativity of those arrested,’ it is added, ‘among these were 566 colored persons.’
Now, since the colored people arc so frequently spoken of as a degraded and vicious portion of our population, it is natural to inquire into the comparative number of arrests of colored persons for crime, in proportion to the relative number of the white and colored population of our city. I have no means of knowing the present number of either. But in the census of 1850, p. 278 the whites are stated to be 501,732, the colored 13,815; total, 515,547. This, if I mistake not, shows that the colored people, at that time, were about 2.68 per cent, of the entire population.
Assuming that the present population does not greatly vary from that of 1850, the colored people would compare favorably with the whites, in 1857-8, if 2.68 per cent, of the arrests should have been from among them. But if I figure correctly, the ‘First Metropolitan Police Report’ shows that considerably less than one per cent, (about 93 of 1 per cent.) of those arrested were colored.
To state the matter in another form. If the colored population (now, as in 1850) be 2.68 percent, of our population, then their arrests for crime, if in the same proportion, would have been 1,631; whereas, by the Metropolitan Police Report, it was only 566, a difference of 1,065 in their favor. Ought not this to be noticed, and recorded to their credit?
Yours respectfully, 
WILLIAM GOODELL.

DEMOCRACY’S ARTICLES OF FAITH.
We believe in Calhoun living, and in Webster and Clay dead.
We believe the Declaration of Independence a self-evident lie, for niggers have no rights that a Democrat is bound to respect; and Adam and Eve were alone ‘created’ equal, and all the rest of mankind are born.
We believe that ‘mechanics and laborers’ are the ‘mudsills of society,’ only fit to be regarded as the ‘capital of the rich.’
We believe in ‘Squatter Sovereignty’ during a Presidential election, but after the election all Squatter Sovereignty reverts to the President.
We believe a Slave State ought to become a partner of the Union, if it have 35,000 inhabitants.
We believe a Free State ought not to become a <illegible> she have 93,000 inhabitants.
We believe Buchanan and Douglas Democracy is as old as Noah’s Ark.
We believe in hard money generally, with an occasional issue of treasury rags, which ought not under any ordinary condition of government to exceed forty millions per year.
We believe to the victors belong the spoils,’ and if there be more victors than spoils, spoils should be made to order.
We believe Jefferson was a superannuated old fool, and that Republicanism which takes its roots from him in ‘black.’
We believe that this is a great country, but South Carolina is greater.
We believe in a National party if it includes the South, and leaves out the North.
We believe in the great principle of ‘voting early and often,’ for if one vote be good, then two are better.
We believe in the estimable right of Democrats, when on the stump, to change their principles with the degrees of latitude and longitude.
We believe the history of political parties establishes the fact that there is no cohesiveness equal to the cohesiveness of public plunder.
We believe there are no principles so dear to the thousands of office-seekers that swarm the hosts of Democratic Israel, as the five loaves and two fishes.
We believe in the missionary enterprise of Walker and his followers, and secretly enjoin all to pray for its success.
We believe Kansas needs another Governor, or she will soon commence bleeding, and no physician will be found to staunch her blood.
We believe Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Iowa are ‘outside the pale of healthy organizations,’ and we humbly pray the President to appoint a fast day that they may return to the true faith, the mighty faith of the President.
Finally, we believe Democracy, Whiskey, and Niggers, are one and indivisible. United they will stand, divided they must fall.-Iowa City Rep.

PRES. BUCHANAN’S MESSAGE.
The message, or rather manifesto, of the President, in studiously moderate in its tone, bat still, some how or other, we should think that the inhabitants of the petty republics with whose interests its deals so largely cannot read it without some internal tremors. It presents certainly a curious phenomenon. Here is a martial and adventurous race, spread over an enormous territory, disposing of unlimited naval and military resources. They profess by their President that, except by fair purchase, as in the case of Louisiana, or by free annexation, as a little more doubtfully in the case of Texas, they will never acquire any accession of territory. They breathe nothing but kindness and good-will to all their neighbors, success to Mexico, prosperity to Costa Rica, and more strength to the elbow of New Granada. Did the world ever see a picture of so much strength tempered and adorned by so much moderation? Nor is this all; the United States have losses; they have been robbed by Mexico, cheated by Brazil, laughed at by Spain, despoiled by Paraguay, and grievously tormented by Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Yet, still the great republic opposes her patience to the fury of the wasps and hornets of these fiery latitudes, and calls gods and men to witness her patience, her forbearance, and her tenderness. It is a moving spectacle, and our first feeling on witnessing it is, how unworthy the sulky, perverse, domineering natives of these distant isles are to be the progenitors of a race which exceeds us as much in the milder virtues of conciliation and tolerance as it does already in the extent of its territories, and will shortly in the amount of its population. When we come, however, to look a little further, we see some symptoms that the quarrelsome spirit of the English has not wholly died out in their descendants. The old grievance of the Clayton-Bowler treaty is still kept hanging over Great Britain, and we do not see that our frank concessions in the matter of the right of search have inspired the President with tie lightest wish to meet us in a corresponding spirit. He burns with the purest desire to extinguish the slave trade; nay, with a transport of holy zeal, he would snatch Cuba from the bands of Spain, in order that he may at once put an end to the slave trade from Africa, or rather may confine it to Virginia and the other
<c06>
breeding States of the Union. But when Great Britain proposes to him to devise some means to replace that power of checking the slave trade which search and visitation gave her, he is unable to devise any expedient, and tells us frankly that any plan she may suggest is sure to lead to grave embarrassments. To handover Cuba to America is his only remedy, and he will hear of no other.
Spain, too, has behaved extremely ill. She draws out her negotiations to inordinate length, aid seeks to compound her obligations at the rate of six-and eight pence in the pound. America has borne it all with patience, and even now the only revenge she seeks is the purchase of Cuba. If Spain will not sell it, the President contemplates the seizure of the island under the imperative and overruling law of self-preservation. Of the existence and application of such a law, America herself is to be the judge. Mexico cannot keep the peace on the frontier; she has levied contributions on American citizens, and her lawless tribes impede the passage of the Californian mail. Therefore, the United States should assume a temporary protectorate over two of her provinces-Chihuahua and Sonora-and bold then till a good government can be established-a tenure certainly amounting to freehold, and very probably to fee simple. Nor have the States of the Isthmus, Nicaragua and Costa Rica, reason to accept too literally the professed moderation of the President. They are told that if an arm of the sea runs through their territories uniting the Atlantic with the Pacific, they would have no right to stop the navigation of all nations through it; and, though there is no arm of the sea, but only a road leading through their dominions from one ocean to the other, this makes no sort of difference. The application of this principle needs no comment. The claim of this easement over a neighbor’s land draws with it the right of enforcing it, and that right the President requests he may be empowered to exercise without the assent of Congress. Paraguay is to be compelled at the sword’s point to give just satisfaction.
We have said enough to show that we ought not to be too much dazzled by the moderation of the President, and that if his voice is the voice of Jacob, his bands are undoubtedly the hands of Esau. We will only add one other reflection. Can it be that the whole American continent has entered into a vile conspiracy to insult, despoil, and ill-use the United States? that the weaker is in all cases the aggressor, and the stronger in ail cases the attacked and injured? In it not, at any rate, very remarkable that the United States should be at this moment provided with a cases belli against almost every State from the Gulf of Mexico to Cape Horn, and that, though in a spirit of tolerant moderation they content themselves for the present year with merely seizing two provinces of Mexico, taking armed possession of the Transit route from ocean to ocean, and sending a flotilla up the Piranha to invade the creamy repose of Paraguay, they have grievances and claims in for any number <illegible> of Presidents’ Messages, and Is the wolf always so entirety in the right <illegible> the lambs always so completely in the wrong?-London Times.
The French papers seem to have commented with greater severity than the English journals upon President Buchanan’s message. The Pays thus concludes a long article:-
‘Mr. Buchanan’s policy may be rammed up in a very few words-absence of morality-schemes of ambition which are beyond the power of realization-egotistical tendencies. If to these qualities be joined a constant anxiety about a personality of a most commonplace kind, a thirst after popularity which is now declining without ever having been very vigorous, a turgidity of language which is so much the more displaced that there is no real greatness to justify it, and a duplicity always blameable-if these points, we say, be taken into consideration, there will then exist a representation, in out opinion, perfectly faithful of the nature of the policy suggested by American ideas and directed by Mr. Buchanan.’

THE MOUNT VERNON EXCITEMENT.
The interest attending the Mount Vernon Fund’ question is now at its climax. Patriots, politicians, hand-organ orators, popular firms and associations, and all those prominent men of wealth who never fail to make handsome donations to fashionable ‘charities,’ poor out their appeals and pour in their contributions. Ministers preach for the cause. Actors play for it. Printers work for it. Newsboys cry for it. Handsome women-and some not handsome-beg for it. The cause prospers. The cause rises like a majestic temple. The cause presents a lofty, far-seen, splendid and imposing surface of wall, which the shrewd proprietor of a cheap print takes practical advantage of, to plaster it over with advertisements, Edward Everett acting as bill-poster on a high national staging.
The idea of purchasing Mount Vernon by national subscription, originated with Miss Ann Pamela Cunningham, of South Carolina. At her suggestion, and in consequence of her efforts, the Mount Vernon Association was formed, chartered, and put into operation. The plan, as everybody knows, is to purchase the homestead and sepulcher of Washington, now the property of an individual, Mr. John A. Washington, who does not object to selling the ashes of his ancestor at a tip-top price. When first applied to, he expressed a willingness to make the trade, and seemed moderate in his expectations. But when the Association made a formal proposition, and appeared quite in earnest in the matter, Mr. J. A. W., with a keen eye to speculation, slapped on ‘a price.’ He held the bones and so Father of the distinguished gentleman known at the Father of his country, to be worth two hundred thousand dollars; the surroundings, together with a couple of hundred acres, once belonging to the said Father of his country, to be thrown in. The Mount Vernon Association did not haggle about terms, The Association said at once, ‘It is a bargain.’ The Association probably saw that if Mr. J. A. W. was not immediately taken up at his offer, there was a strong probability of his raising his ideas and terms still higher on reflection. Indeed, although Mr. J. A. W. was sharp, he was not so sharp as he might have been. He might have had three hundred thousand dollars as well as two,-may be four, possibly five or six. On the whole, we consider that the Association got off cheap.
According to the terms of the contract, eighteen thousand dollars were paid down in cash. Fifty seven thousand were to be paid in or before January first, 1859, and the remainder in three equal annual installment! on the twenty-second of February, 1860 1861, 1862, with the privilege of paying the whole amount due at any time, and taking possession, upon giving thirty days’ notice. That the whole will be paid before the twenty-second of February, 1859, is the hope and belief of the regent and her co-laborers. So says Mrs. Ann Cors Ritchie, the vice-regent of the Association for Virginia.-Boston Olive Branch
The slaver Echo was sold at Charleston on the 6th inst. By the U. S. Marshal.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with
death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMINO THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.’
—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WHO ARE AMERICAN CITIZENS?
An unexpected discussion took place in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on Friday last, on the presentation of a Memorial from the Colored Citizens of the State, protesting against the Dared Scott decision, &c. [See the Memorial in another column.] A characteristic speech having been made by Mr. Caleb Cushing, audaciously opposing the reference the Memorial, on the ground that colored persons are not citizens of the United States, Mr. WELLS, of Greenfield, made the following able rejoinder:ï¿½
Mr. Speaker: I am somewhat embarrassed in rising to address the House at this time, upon the grave questions which have been introduced by the gentleman from Newburyport, for they are questions which cannot be discussed on the spur of the moment; but at the same time, I wish to say one or two words upon some of the subjects to which he referred, and will proceed to discuss them, very briefly, and with as much clearness as I may at this moment.
In the first place, I beg the gentleman from Newburyport to bear in mind, as he begged of the House to remember with regard to himself, that I did not introduce this subject to the House. I presented to the House a petition and memorial, as it is my duty, as a member of the House, to present every petition and memorial entrusted to me, to the House, and I asked its reference to the proper committee. Has there been a single inquiry into the contents of any petition and memorial heretofore presented to the House, by any member, with a view to the discussion of the question on its reference? Sir, it was the keenness of vision of the gentleman from Newburyport, who was able to distinguish the colored individual lurking in the angle of the fence that brought this matter before the House today. It was his motion, his suggestion, his act, which introduced this discussion, and not mine.
The discussion here is simply in reference to the question of the citizenship of the colored man, stated in that memorial. I do not understand the question as stated or suggested in that memorial, to be that which the gentleman from Newburyport suggests. It does seem to ma, Mr. Speaker, that in some strange way, the gentleman from Newburyport mingles the right to vote with the right of citizenship. I do not believe that the right to vote has any necessary connection with the right of citizenship. I believe them to be entirely separate and distinct matters, and that a man is not necessarily a voter because he is a citizen, or necessarily a citizen because he is a voter.
I have never seen any definition of citizenship which satisfies me, nor do I know that I could make one; but it does seem to me that a definition might be made something like thisï¿½A citizen of a State is a person who owes to that State faith and allegiance, and who, in consideration of such faith and allegiance, is entitled to the equal protection of its government, and to his equal rights under that government, wherever he may be.
Therefore it is, that in the process which the United States Courts have established for the purpose of determining the citizenship of an alien within our borders, such alien swears that he renounces all allegiance to any foreign prince or potentate whatever, and swears to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of Massachusetts. In that way he becomes a citizen of the State, by renouncing alliance to every other power, and by asserting hits allegiance to our own government. When he does that, he becomes entitled to the protection of that government, whether of the State or Nation; he becomes entitled to every right, privilege and immunity which the Constitution of either State or Nation has guaranteed to its citizens. But among these privileges is not the privilege of voting. A man may vote in some of the Western States, without being a citizen either of the State or the Nation; he may be a citizen of the State and the Nation here, and not have the privilege of voting.
When an individual, resident in any town in this Common wealth, moves into another town of this Commonwealth, does he thereby forfeit his citizenship? Not at all. He still remains a citizen; but he does forfeit his right to vote, until he has remained in that town six months. So when a citizen of another State comes into this State, he cannot vote until he has been here a year.
Sir, there are, in some of our States, provisions in reference to voting, whereby the black man, through the decision of the Supreme Court, is directly disfranchised, and has no right to vote. He is disfranchised, in my opinion, in Massachusetts, in Maine and in Rhode Island.
If that division is law in its conclusions and its reasoning <illegible> declares that the word ï¿½citizen,ï¿½ as used in the constitutions and laws of the different States previous to the adoption of the federal constitution, did not include colored men; that as this word, thus used in the States, did not include this class, it did not include them when used in the constitution of the federal Union, and therefore, as colored men were not citizens of the States at the time of the formation of the Union, they never were and never can be citizens of the United States.
Now, if that reasoning is trueï¿½and I believe, although I have not looked at the Dred Scott decision for nearly a year, that that is the reasoning of the decisionï¿½if that reasoning is true, then the term ï¿½citizenï¿½ in our Constitution does not include the black man, any more than the term ï¿½citizen in the United States Constitution.
Mr. CUSHINGï¿½I would begï¿½because the gentleman is discussing the question in obvious good faith, and therefore will pardon the interruptionï¿½to ask how, in his hypothesis, he disposes of the fact, that in half the free states, not only are colored men deprived of the ordinary rights of citizens, but persons previously aliens are made citizens for the purpose of voting, and actually do vote?
Mr. WELLSï¿½It does seem to me that I have sufficiently answered that question when I say that the right of voting and the right of citizenship have nothing to do with each other.
Now, if what I have said is true, then the word ï¿½citizenï¿½ in our State Constitution does not include the colored men within Massachusetts. The same construction must be placed upon the word there that is placed upon it in the Constitution of the United States.
Nay, more. In our original Constitution, the word ï¿½citizenï¿½ was not used; it was, I think, ï¿½resident; and in the Article of the Constitution which has reference to the qualification of voters. where it now reads ï¿½every citizen,ï¿½ possessing such and such qualifications, ï¿½shall have a right to vote,ï¿½ it originally road ï¿½every resident.ï¿½ Not very long after the adoption of that Constitution, the question came up, Does the word ï¿½residentï¿½ mean citizen, or does it include aliens? Cannot an alien, who is an inhabitant of the State, vote, notwithstanding he is an alien? The Supreme Court of Massachusetts decided very promptly and readily, that the word used is that connection meant citizen of the United Statesï¿½making the word ï¿½citizenï¿½ of Massachusetts and ï¿½citizenï¿½ of the United States identical, in their construction of that word at that time.
Now, Mr. Speaker, our Constitution provides that no man who is not a citizen shall have the right to vote. In order that a person may have the right to vote, our Constitution prescribes several thingsï¿½ that he shall be a citizen of Massachusetts, and a male; that he shall be of the age of twenty-one years. Every one of these requisitions must be complied with. He must be a citizen, he must be a male, he must be twenty-one years of age, before he can vote.
Citizenship alone will not qualify him, because persons under twenty-one years of ageï¿½paupers, and, as I believe, women, are citizens.
It is not enough that he should be a citizen, he must be maleï¿½twenty-one years of ageï¿½not a pauper or under guardianshipï¿½he must have resided within the Commonwealth one year and the town six months; but, citizenship is one of his qualifications, and if that decision, and the reasoning by which it is supported, are law, then the black man is not a citizen either of state or nation, and that decision deprives him of his right to vote in Massachusetts, just as it deprives him of the privileges and immunities of citizenship guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.
Nay, further. In Maine, the Constitution expressly provides that no person, not a citizen of the United States, shall have the right to vote; and yet, I think colored men vote, today, in Maine, in direct contravention of the Dred Scott decision.
But, sir, that decision goes very much further than taking away the right to vote. I know it has been said, and upon this floor, that the only rights of citizenship of the United States were theseï¿½to preempt land, to own ships, and to sue, in certain <illegible>, in the Federal Courts. Mr. Speaker, it does seem to me that when a Commander of our navy, in the harbor of <illegible> pointed his guns at an Austrian man-of-war, and said that a man who had even declared his intention of become a citizen of
<c02>
the United States, should receive the protection of that government, he did not mean simply that Martin Kozta had a right to pre-empt land. Thank heaven! there are higher privileges embraced in this term, ï¿½Citizen of the United States,ï¿½ than all that comes to; and it is of these privileges and rights that the colored man is deprived, and it is of that deprivation be complains. I could find, sir, in that very Dred Scott decision, an enumeration, by the Supreme Court itself, of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, but I will not occupy the time of the House in searching for it now. Those rights are to bear arms, to meet in public assemblies, and various other rights therein enumerated, entirely distinct from that class of simply political rights of which the gentleman speaks. Of all these, in the express terms of the decision, the colored man in deprived, as well as of those other rights to which I have already alluded.
Now, sir, as to the question whether a citizen of the State is necessarily a citizen of the United States. It does seem to me that if a man is a citizen of a school-district, he is a citizen of the town in which that school-district is situated; if he is a citizen of a town, he is a citizen of the county which embraces that town within its limits; if he is a citizen of a county, he is a citizen of the State which includes that county: if he is a citizen of a State, he is a citizen of that confederation of States which includes that State, and which governs it with a common government. And therefore it is impossible for me to determine how a man can be a citizen of a State, and not a citizen of the United States: how the faith and allegiance which a man owes to his State, can be otherwise than due to the United States government, which includes and overshadows the State government under which he lives. That is the way the matter strikes me; and I cannot see it in any other light.
As to the statement, that, if the view I have presented be correct, a citizen of Massachusetts would have the right to go into any other State and vote, my answer has been modeï¿½that voting is no part of the privileges of citizenship. It is a matter entirely distinct from it; citizenship being sometimes made a prerequisite for it; but nowhere, so far as I am aware, the right to vote constituting any test of citizenship.
One word as to the suggestion that his memorial applies terms of gross condemnation to the State of Massachusetts. I cannot discover them; and the gentleman from Newburyport has not pointed out any such gross condemnation of Massachusetts in the memorial. It is true these colored gentlemen have stated their belief that Massachusetts, by her past legislation, has not shown sufficient courage in insisting upon her right to protect her own citizens in Southern ports. I think that if the sense of the House were taken on this subject, a majority would be found who think that the State of Massachusetts has not shown sufficient courage in this respect.
But it is one of the peculiar misfortunes of our government, that although, by the Constitution of the United States, the colored citizens of Massachusetts have a right to be free from seizure or imprisonment in Southern ports, nevertheless, they are liable to such seizure and imprisonment, they are liable to the loss of liberty, and even of life itself, and the State has no redress. The Constitution gives us a right, but we are powerless to enforce it. That is unfortunate, but it is certainly true.
The gentleman from Newburyport, still further, in referring to a remark which I made, in reference to himself, and to a statement which he made here, has undertaken to discuss, in some slight measure, the Petition Law. He says that no Legislature can control the action of any future Legislature. Exactly so. No Legislature can control any future Legislature, and no Legislature has undertaken to do it. The Legislature, two years ago, simply passed a law requiring petitions to be published in a certain way. It was a notice to the Commonwealth and to the world, that if any petitioners wished their petitions favorably received, they should be published in a certain way; but it could not prohibit any future Legislature from acting upon any petition that came properly before them.
Now, with reference to another point. I submit that when the gentleman from Newburyport spoke of the scorn and contempt in which he held a law passed by the Legislature of this State, he meant something more than to say that, as a legislator, he should vote in such a way as to bring about a repeal of that law. I was glad to hear a similar statement made by him upon this floor, last year, in reference to a law of this Commonwealth, passed years ago, which expressly forbids the militia <illegible> do certain <illegible> and said he would shoulder his musket and march in defiance of that law of the Commonwealth, because he believed it to be unconstitutional. I think, if he so believed, he was right in so saying, and I honored him for it. If I believed it unconstitutional, I would say the same. I will say it with regard to any Massachusetts law that I deem unconstitutional, and I will say it with regard to any United States law that I deem unconstitutional.
I have but one word more to say, and that is in reference to this memorial, and the manner in which it should be received. I do submit that it should be received with all courtesy and kindness. I do submit, that if there be any difference in the manner in which memorials are to be received, this Legislature is bound to receive with special care and kindness, any paper emanating from the colored citizens of the Commonwealth.
In reference to the colored race and the white raceï¿½no man believes more firmly than I do in the doctrine of races. I do believe that the white races are superior to the colored races. I do believe that the Anglo-Saxon race is superior to any other white race. I do believe that the combination of various races which is found in Massachusetts, and is known by the name of the ï¿½Yankee,ï¿½ï¿½I believe that the ï¿½Yankeeï¿½ race is superior to any other under heaven. But does this justify me in saying that no other race than the Yankee shall have any political right, or that a person not belonging to that race shall not stand on an equality with it, so far as political rights are concerned? I am not speaking of social equality. This is not a question of the beauty of women of different climes. I leave that to persons better instructed than myself in such matters. It is no question of social equality or association. It is a question simply of political equality; of the equal rights of all men before God and before the law. Upon that, sir, I say that the lowest and most unfortunate individual that treads our earth shall have an equal right with myself, before any law of this Commonwealth. And, Sir, it may be because my ambition is not so exalted as that of other gentlemen, because it does not look so far, but it is certainly true that I am not afraid to start on the race of political ambition with the black man by my side. If he can do better than I can, then he is the better man, and he shall have the reward. And although it has been said, that if we establish and maintain this equality of the black race with the white race, we shall be plunged in a perfect Golgotha of horrors, I have too much confidence in the white race to believe any such thing. Here are some few hundred black men, and millions of white men, and it is said that if we allow them to have equal privileges and rights with the whites, they will get us entirely under, have all power and control, and put us nowhere. Now, I do not believe, Mr. Speaker, they can do it; but if they can do it, I am perfectly willing they should try. If they are so much our superiors in intellect, talent and capacity as all this amounts to, they ought to rule.
Mr. Speaker, it is true that the black race is inferior to the white race, in all its outward circumstances and social conditions. By an unfortunate prejudice, they are deprived of very much that makes life dear to us. They are denied very many of the privileges, by reason of that social prejudice, which white men possess. But against all these disadvantages, against all the oppression which has been heaped upon them, they have straggled well and successfully. They have striven in every possible way to elevate their social, moral, intellectual and political condition. God speed them in the effort!
For my part, sir, while I recognize it as certainly true in point of fact, however wrong in principle, that the colored man, in his outward social circumstances and conditions is inferior to the whiteï¿½that we are above him in those social and intellectual opportunities and advantages which so assist in giving beauty, grace and dignity to life, and making existence pleasant and desirableï¿½I would make that the reason for treating him with extreme kindness, consideration and courtesy. Let not our words be such as to dishearten and discourage him. Let our hands be extended to aid and sustain him in his noble and successful effort; not to repel and strike him down. Sir, I envy neither the heart nor the Christianity of that man who would apply one word, save in all sympathy said kindness, to hearts already lacerated and bleeding, or add but a featherï¿½s weight to a burden already too grievous to be borne.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, JANUARY 21, 1859.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Our friends who have not ret paid for the Liberator for 1858 will bear in mind oar rule, by which their papers must be cut off, if payment be not made before February 1st. These terms must indeed be accounted liberal, as they give not leas then thirteen months credit. We hardly need add, that our subscription list needs greatly to be enlarged, and that any curtailment of it is most undesirable. R. F. W.

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY
The twenty-seventh Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in Boston, at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, January 27th and 28th, commencing at half-past 10 oï¿½clock, A. M., on Thursday. The members, and friends of the old Pioneer Society will not fail, we trust, to be present in strength of numbers and zeal, and in the determination never to turn back from the cause of freedom, cost what it may, and come what may. The times both demand and encourage the boldest and most explicit testimonies from every enemy of Slavery, and the most persevering efforts to effect its speedy and eternal overthrow.
Among the speakers, confidently expected, are WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURY, Mrs. CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, T. W. HIGGINSON, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, STEPHEN S. and ABBY K. FOSTER, E. H. HEYWOOD, &c. &c.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

NOTICE.
This being the last number of the Liberator to be issued previous to THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY, the opportunity is taken to say that the Ladies, while superintending the evening arrangements, will be found at the
MUSIC HALL, BOSTON,
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 26,
through the whole day, from 11, A. M., to 5, P. M., to receive subscriptions,ï¿½the smallest as well as the greatest,ï¿½from all who wish to make them, whether openly or with reservation of their names; which many, especially from the South, may for obvious reasons prefer.
THE SOIREE
Will begin at half past seven oï¿½clock,
and in the intervals of music, conversation and addresses, there will also occur opportunities for subscription.
Many distinguished and eloquent friends of the cause having received special invitations, will, it is hoped, be present and address the company.
Let no one who should not have been especially invited suppose the omission intentional, but be so good as to rectify it by calling at the Music Hall during the day, or at the Anti-Slavery office, or a Messrs. Phillips & Sampsonï¿½s, 15 Winter street, previously, where invitations await all who desire them.
For the guidance of all interested in this Festival, we beg leave to sayï¿½
That all our friends everywhere are requested to give the pleasure of their company;
That no entrance fee will be permitted, the only offerings to the cause desirable on this occasion being those, whether great or small, that free-will makes worthy of it;
That cards of invitation will be placed at the Anti-Slavery offices and at the Booksellersï¿½ shops for the convenience of the guests; and each card, previously <illegible> and address of the person presenting it, will insure a cordial reception;
That cloak-rooms will be arranged to save the guests the risk of remaining in their street dress in a warmed and lighted apartment;
That the evening invitations will be issued for half-past 7 oï¿½clock; but the guests will be welcome at any moment during the evening, and a short visit gladly received if a long one is impossible on account of other engagements;
That all who are prevented from being present in person, especially friends from the South, are entreated to accompany their subscriptions by a short letter, that may give information and encouragement to their Northern coadjutors in this great work of national progress and improvement;
That, while renewing the invitation to all, this occasion, as an opportunity for subscription merely, is exclusively commended to those who have never habitually subscribed elsewhere; to those who are just beginning to appreciate the importance of the cause that has done so much for their benefit, without their having, as yet, made a pecuniary contribution to promote it; to those whose political path it has lighted, till they feel the obligation to feed the lamp; to those who have hitherto contributed by purchase, and who are now relied upon to continue their aid by donation, in the assurance that half the sum they may have annually spent will be a clearer gain than, the whole through the former circuitous channel. M. W. C.

THE FESTIVAL AND THE ANNUAL MEETING.
Next week is to be a busy week, in this city, for the cause of Freedom and Emancipation. First will come the ANTI-SLAVERY FESTIVAL, on Wednesday evening, at Music Hall, at which a large and choice gathering is expected of those who have ï¿½laid by in store,ï¿½ for that special occasion, such gifts as they desire to cast into the Anti-Slavery treasury, in order to give a new impetus throughout the land to that moral movement for the overthrow of slavery, without which there would be no spirit in any quarter to resist the Slave Power in any of its aggressions, or to baffle it in any of its designs. Let every one strive to do his best. Let the pecuniary result be such as to cheer the friends of the slave in every part of the country, and stimulate them to more self-sacrificing efforts. LET ALL WHO CAN, COME!
On Thursday morning, the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held, continuing in session two days. Crowd the hall!
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN THE BAY STATE.
THE PETITIONS have just commenced going in to the Legislature. We trust they will continue to come, by the scores and by the hundreds. Let the people plainly utter their will, and we have very strongly the belief, as well as the hope, that the present Legislature will enact such a law as the petition asks. Lose no time, friends, in collecting the remaining names, and in sending forward the petitions.ï¿½M.
MISS HOLLEYï¿½S LECTURES. At West Cambridge, on Sunday last, Miss Holley was invited by the pastor of the Universalist Society to occupy his pulpit, and address his congregation on the subject of Slavery in the afternoon. She did so, speaking to a large audience, and in an exceedingly acceptable and impressive manner. From the pastor of the Waltham Universalist Society, (who, we understand, was present at West Cambridge, on Sunday last,) she received an invitation to occupy his pulpit a portion of next Sunday, for a similar purpose, and we hear that she designs to do so. Miss Holley has also spoken recently in the Unitarian Church, East Cambridge, on the invitation of the pastor, Rev. Mr. Holland. The gospel of humanity and freedom, which she so persuasively preaches, cannot but be powerfully commended to all her hearers as the truth of God.ï¿½N.
<c04>
HENRY WARD BEECHER AND THEODORE PARKER.
For having delivered one of the lectures of the very successful and admirable course projected by the ï¿½Fraternity association,ï¿½ in this city, (composed chiefly of members of Theodore Parkerï¿½s congregation.) Henry Ward Beecher has been assailed by the New York Examiner, an Orthodox journal, and represented as ï¿½giving eï¿½clat to an infidel enterprise,ï¿½ and thereby fairly subjecting to suspicion the soundness of his own orthodoxy! The absurdity as well as malignity of this charge is glaringly manifest from the fact, that the ï¿½Fraternityï¿½ course differed in nothing from that of the Mercantile Library Association, or any other Lyceum, excepting that Mr. Parker was engaged to deliver four of the lecturesï¿½one upon Washington, a second upon Franklin, a third upon John Adams, and a fourth upon Thomas Jefferson; topics purely historical, and treated with that rigid impartiality for which Mr. Parker is noted; topics as remote from theological speculations as North from South. Evidently made uneasy by this contemptible attack of the Examiner, Mr. Beecher makes an elaborate reply in the New York Independent, which we have transferred to the fourth page of our present number. It contains much that is sensible, makes some very good hits, and has an appearance of manly independence and Christian magnanimity; yet, as a whole, on a close examination of it, we are not favorably impressed with it, but think it is open to sharp criticism.
In the first place, that Mr. Beecher should have deemed it necessary, in self-defence, to reply to such an attack from such a quarter, by protesting that he is no heretic, but still thoroughly orthodox, is symptomatically bad. It seems to indicate undue apprehension of public opinion, extreme solicitude for his orthodox reputation, a lack of manly independence. Why should he have deigned to notice the Examiner? Its animus, as exhibited towards himself and Mr. Parker, is so palpably mean and uncandid, so unjust and proscriptive, that entire silence in regard to it would have been a better reply than it is in his power to write, master as he is of all the elements of speechï¿½far better than the article he has published in the Independent, excellent as that is in some of its features, and conclusive as it is in its illustrative and logical exposure of the folly and malignity of the Examiner article. If, as he pertinently says, ï¿½it is only those professed defenders of the faith, who, having erected suspicion into a Christian grace, practise slander as a Christian duty,ï¿½ will be liable to mistake or misinterpret his conduct, in lecturing in the same course with Theodore Parker, why should he give himself so much concern lest his religious position should be generally regarded as at least quasi heretical?
But, waiving thisï¿½admitting that it is sometimes doing good service to the cause of justice to publicly castigate an unworthy antagonist, and that in this particular instance such punishment was especially called forï¿½we proceed to state wherein our regret is excited, and our sense of justice outraged, by what we find in Mr. Beecherï¿½s explanatory and defensive rejoinder.
The Examiner assails Mr. Parker for his ï¿½infidelity,ï¿½ and urges that no Christian should consent to stand on the same platform, even in a popular course of lectures, with such an ï¿½infidel.ï¿½ To this Mr. Beecher makes the satisfactory reply:ï¿½ï¿½If a man institutes a temperance movement, must I refuse to help him because, being a Universalist minister, his zeal and fidelity in that cause would reflect a luster upon him and his sect? If a man would establish and endow a hospital, must I refuse to co-work with him because, being a Unitarian, its success would reflect a certain luster upon that faith?ï¿½ So far, well and true. But it will be observed that, throughout his article, Mr. Beecher has neither the fairness nor the courage, directly or indirectly, to question the propriety of the opprobrious epithet applied to Mr. Parker. Nay, he evidently assumes, it to be unquestionable, and which graciously conceding <illegible> many <illegible> virtues, in no sense regards him as a religious teacher. Now, it is of this injustice we complain, and of such sectarian narrowness we are ashamed. Mr. Parker claims to be as sincere, as conscientious, ay, and as enlightened in his religious views as Mr. Beecher himself; ï¿½to his own Master he stands or falls;ï¿½ his spirit is brave and excellent, his speech unfettered, his heart large and catholic. He is neither spellbound by tradition, nor stultified by ghostly authority, nor victimized by pious credulity. He is a bold, open, indefatigable seeker after the truthï¿½a man who dares to do his own thinking, speak his own thoughts, and reduce to practice the apostolic injunction, ï¿½Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.ï¿½ The question with him has ever been, not, ï¿½What is popular?ï¿½ but, ï¿½What is right?ï¿½ His is evidently an investigating mind; his scholarly attainments are vast, and his analytical powers remarkable. Yet he is no dogmatist; he makes a wide margin of allowance for men and institutions, however wrong in his judgment; his charity runs to an extreme, we think, so as frequently to impair the force of his moral testimonies. Certain it is, he assumes nothing for himself which he does not cheerfully concede to every other man. He instinctively espouses the cause of the weak against the strong, the persecuted against the persecutors, the oppressed against the tyrannical. There is no reason to doubt that, had he lived in their times, he would have been with Milton and Hampden, with Bunyan and Fox, with Luther and Mclancthon, with Jesus and Paul, with all manly dissenting and truth-loving souls, who make up that noble army of martyrs and confessors, ï¿½of whom the world was not worthy.ï¿½ The question is not, whether his moral vision is equally clear in every direction, and on ail subjectsï¿½we think it is not, though ours may be much more obscured; nor whether he has not made some mistakes, and fallen into some errorsï¿½for who is infallible? It is, whether, being what we have portrayed him, and living a life of great beauty, without moral blemish, and full of sympathy, benevolence, and good fruitsï¿½it is for such a man as Henry Ward Beecher, in many respects so kindred in spirit and purpose with Mr. Parker, to apply to him, or to admit that others are right in applying to him, the sneaking, malicious, proscriptive, abusive and lying epithet of ï¿½infidelï¿½! We submit, with a full appreciation of his great merits and many brilliant traits of character, that the antecedents of Mr. Beecherï¿½s history give him no superiority over Mr. Parker on the score of independent thinking, manly dissent, courageous protest, conscientious conviction, or religious enlightenment and integrity. His orthodoxy is undeniably traditional; his theological creed is every where dominant and popular; hit view of Christ will be readily endorsed in Alabama by those who burn slaves annually by a slow fire, or at Rome, where dissent from its phase of ï¿½orthodoxyï¿½ is treated as a damnable heresy. Under these circumstances, of what value is it as a test of Christian character? Prima facie, nothing. Mr. Beecher, in these particulars, U simply in the fashion: where he would stand, or what he would be, in case the fashion should change, and orthodoxy should be popularly branded as ï¿½infidelity,ï¿½ remains to be seen: we judge him not. We only say that it is not for him to make a parade of his Christian character as against the ï¿½infidelï¿½ character of Theodore Parker. If the test given by Jesus be a sound one, ï¿½By their fruits ye shall know them,ï¿½ in what is Mr. Parker inferior to himself? What if he is ï¿½irreconcilably opposedï¿½ to Mr. Ps theological opinions, does that make the latter a heretic? or justify the condescending inquiry, ï¿½Are we to punish an infidel for his infidelity by refusing him all credit for personal goodness, for active benevolence, for practical humanityï¿½? Mr. Beecher really plumes himself upon his magnanimity in being willing to stand upon the same Lyceum platform with Mr. Parker! This is ludicrous. In that juxtaposition, Mr. Parker is quite a condescending as Mr. Beecher, though it will never
<c05>
occur to him to make a show of magnanimity about it. There is no modesty, no humility, in Mr. Bï¿½s reply to the Examiner, towards Mr. Parker. His theological dogmatism is papal; his assumption of saintship offensive; his evangelical egotism in bad taste. ï¿½I differ from him [Mr. P.] in fact, in theory, in statement, in doctrine, in system, in hope and expectation, (!)living or dying. laboring or resting.ï¿½ A pretty clean sweep, truly! Where was the need of this invidious, ostentatious proclamation of antagonistic feeling? Was it to propitiate the Examiner and its pharisaical clique? Do any others stand in need of it? ï¿½If I cannot make my people understand my belief, in fifty-two sabbaths of the year,ï¿½ say Mr. Beecher, ï¿½I shall not mend the matter by refusing to follow the generous sympathies of my heart ï¿½ï¿½no, nor mend it by making a fresh confession of faith in the Independent, under circumstances that look as if the object was rather to seize an opportunity for the removal of all suspicion of theological unsoundness, and adroitly to make capital out of a paltry and absurd issue, than to be truly just to Mr. Parker, who is so bitterly hated for his freedom of mind and exemplary life.
Mr. Beecher asks, with a slight flush of indignation, ï¿½Does the Examiner think we do not care for our own theologic views? We care a good deal. We shall yield them to no manï¿½s dictation. We shall not endorse any manï¿½s theology which differs from them.ï¿½ And cannot Mr. Parker use the same language to Mr. Beecher, in defence of his own ï¿½theologic viewsï¿½? Moreover, cannot Mr. B. conceive it to be within the scope of possibility that he may be, theologically, wrong, and Mr. P. right? Could he not have modestly suggested as much, without detriment to his Christian character?
One thing we are curious to learn?ï¿½Of what value, either to Mr. Beecher, or to any body else, are his peculiar ï¿½theologic viewsï¿½? He does not pretend that they make him a better man; he divorces them entirely from ethics; he admits they have nothing to do with PRACTICAL RIGHTEOUSNESSï¿½in recovering the intemperate, setting free the bond, feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, educating the ignorant, and ï¿½giving sleigh-rides to beggarsï¿½ children, that never before laughed and cuddled in a buffalo robeï¿½ ï¿½&c. &c. And if they are good for nothing in this world, is it not a delusion to suppose they will be of any special value hereafter? ï¿½Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles?ï¿½ It was all very wellï¿½doubtless the ï¿½evangelicalï¿½ Jews might have admitted to Jesusï¿½that the good Samaritan had compassion on the man who fell among thieves, and helped to bind up his wounds; but, alas! for the unsoundness of his ï¿½theologic viewsï¿½! He was nothing but an ethical ï¿½infidel,ï¿½ after all, with a spice of humanity in him!
Mr. Beecher is condemned out of his own mouth, when, in one breath, affecting to regard his ï¿½theologic viewsï¿½ as of momentous and everlasting consequence, he in the next indulges in irony at the solicitude of ï¿½a real modern orthodox man, who,ï¿½ according to the New York Observer, the Presbyterian, &c., ï¿½like a nervous watch-dog, must sit on the door-stone of his system, and bark incessantly at every thing that comes in sight along the highway; and when there is nothing to bark at, he must either growl, and gnaw his reserved bones, or bark at the moon to keep up the sonorousness of his voice.ï¿½ A funny illustration, to be sure; but is the theme a funny one, and can there be too great vigilance or fidelity in maintaining the divine commands, or upholding doctrines essential to the salvation of the soul?
It is not for us to enter the arena of theological strife; but we cannot refrain from referring to the following extraordinary statement made by Mr. Beecher:ï¿½
ï¿½Could Theodore Parker worship my Godï¿½Christ Jesus is his name. All that there it of God to me is bound up in that name. A dim and shadowy effluence rises from Christ, and that I am taught to call THE FATHER (!) A yet more <illegible> and invisible film of <illegible> Holy Spirit (!) But neither are [is] to me aught tangible, restful, accessibleï¿½(!)
What is this but saying that to him God as a Spirit is but a spectre, an incomprehensible conception; and that he can understand him, believe in him, adore him, only as he appears in human form, and born of womanï¿½ï¿½a man of sorrows, and acquainted with griefï¿½?
Such pious generalization is so indefinite and intangible that, like India-rubber, it can be compressed or stretched, according to the taste or caprice, the necessity or desire of the user. Christendom is full of itï¿½Rome is saturated with itï¿½this wickedest and most oppressive of all nations is overflowing with it. It is without signification, and therefore without value. It is traditional homageï¿½an impulse of feelingï¿½a flash of sentimentï¿½a kindling of the imagination; but it throws no light upon the brain, it does not mould the life. ï¿½First, highest, and in measure beyond all other things,ï¿½ says Mr. Beecher, ï¿½I preach Jesus Christ.ï¿½ But that language conveys no intelligent meaning to the mind; for ten thousand conflicting sectarian clergymen say the same thing. When he declares, ï¿½Christ is my God,ï¿½ and therefore beyond peradventure God, he will do well to remember that he may be in error on this point; and, if so, it is a tremendous error; for ï¿½God will not give his glory to another.ï¿½ And it may also be well for him to reflect, whether, if he had lived in the days of Jesus, known his parents, seen him as a man, tempted in all points like other men, even though without sin, it is at all probable he would have believed or recognized one thus born and bred as the one living and true God, the Infinite Creator of all things, who is from everlasting to everlasting!
When Mr. Beecher saysï¿½ï¿½The disposition to find some common ground of kindness and benevolence work, with those from whom we are known to differ, will be a real preaching of the gospel to tens of thousands who are unmoved by dogmas and doctrines,ï¿½ï¿½he utters an important truth, and virtually admits that his ï¿½dogmas and doctrinesï¿½ are without any vitality, and constitute no part of ï¿½a real preaching of the gospel.ï¿½ Why then contend so strenuously for them? Or why regard Mr. Parker as without the pale of Christianity, because he cannot subscribe to them? ï¿½It is love that the world wants.ï¿½ Most assuredly! And on this radical point there is no difference between Mr. Beecher and Mr. Parker: they separate from each other only when the question is one of ï¿½dogmas and doctrines,ï¿½ which are purely abstract, speculative, ideal, and in regard to which minds equally sincere and reverent will ever find cause for disagreement. Which of these earnest men shall accuse the other of ï¿½infidelity,ï¿½ because of this difference of opinion? It will not be Mr. Parker. Shall it be Henry Ward Beecher? And when did he receive pontifical authority, or obtain the right to wear the robes of papal infallibility?
How much of Christian charity or humility is contained in the following self-complacent declarations?ï¿½
ï¿½If tears could wash away from Mr. Parkerï¿½s eyes the hindrances, that he might behold Christ as I behold and adore him, I would shed them without reserve. If prayers could bring to him this vision of glory, beyond sight of philosophy, I would for him besiege the audience-chamber of heaven with an end less procession of prayers, until another voice sounding forth from another light brighter than the noonday sun, should cast down another blinded man to be lifted up an apostle with inspired vision!ï¿½
Mr. Parker, then, is to be regarded as another Saul of Tarsus, engaged in persecuting the saints, venomous against the Christian religion, groping in blindness, and needing a voice and light from Heaven to reclaim him! Of such vast importance, now, are ï¿½dogmas and doctrines, which, anon, Mr. Beecher pronounces devoid of all life-giving power! Now, volumes of such pious rhetoric, the product of excited veneration and ideality, are not as valuable as a single moral precept It cannot be met by reason, nor answered by argument, nor refuted by fact. It defines nothing,
<c06>
and proves nothing, except that Mr. Beecher has a glowing imagination and much dramatic talent. Mr. Parker is no Saul of Tarsus, but a very different kind of person. It is not he who persecutes the saints; it is the soi-disant evangelical ï¿½saintsï¿½ who persecute had the power to do so! Mr. Bï¿½s illustration is as absurd as it is invidious and uncalled for.
He evidently considers Mr. Parkerï¿½s case as utterly desperate! Floods of terms and ï¿½and endless procession of prayersï¿½ (!) will avail nothing; and so like a careful economist, he neither weeps nor prays for him! But this is only theological talk, and such talk is as ï¿½empty as the whistling wind.ï¿½ In his inmost soul, Mr. Beecher respects, loves and honors Theodore Parker as one true to his highest convictions.
The last paragraph in Mr. Beecherï¿½s article, referring to the intelligence of Mr. Parkerï¿½s illness, is tenderly expressed and yet disfigured and tainted with the same religious egotism already commented upon. For instance:ï¿½ï¿½There shall be one Christian [Henry Ward Beecher] who will daily speak his [Mr. Parkerï¿½s] name to the heart [query, ear] of God in earnest prayer, that, with health of body, he may receive upon his soul the greatest gift of Godï¿½faith in Jesus Christ as the Divine Saviour of the worldï¿½ This was intended, we doubt not, to be kind and brotherly still, it has an air of self-righteous assumption and patronizing sympathy which greatly impairs its value.
Of all the pride since Luciferï¿½s attaint,
The proudest swells as self-elected saint.ï¿½
We have felt impelled to make this criticism, not be cause we see eye to eye with Mr. Parker in all things ï¿½theologically or otherwiseï¿½but because we think it is due to the cause of religious freedom.

AMERICAN HOME MISSONARY SOCIETY.
Since the Agents and Officers of this Society. (when in communication with people whom they suppose to hold anti-slavery principles.) and many of its contributors and friends, (who have too implicitly confided in the statements officially made to them now make the claim that the American Home Missionary Society is free from complicity with slaveryï¿½and since few of the persons who here this unfounded claim have at hand the means of disproving itï¿½and since it is important to every Christian to understand whether this Society is diffusing the Christian religion or merely the popular American religion, or whether it is making an attempt to trim its course between the two, hoping thus to get contributions from both sidesï¿½we have thought it well to inquire into, and record in the Liberator, the testimony upon this point existing in the Annual Reports of the Society. The following are the facts in the case.
1. The mission churches of the Society in slaveholding States (like those of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions among the Cherokee and Choctaw Indians) have always been allowed to receive and retain slaveholding members.
2. Like the Foreign Missionary Board, the Home Missionary Society volunteer to their missionaries the suggestion of various circumstances which they represent as valid excuses for slaveholding.
3. In further resemblance to the Foreign Missionary Board, side by side with their practical allowance of slaveholding as Christian by its reception into their churches, the Society have interspersed in their published documents, for many years past, statements bearing against the system of slavery, sometimes very energetically. Most of these statements go no further than the representation of slavery as an evil, but some of them speak of it as a sin.
4. In yet further resemblance to the Foreign Missionary Board, they lay down the rule that the missionaries (with their respective churches) have the exclusive power and right to decide upon the fifteen of candidates for membership in those churches, yet when the missionaries prostitute this power to the admission of slaveholders, the Society retain them as Christian ministers, and satisfactory representatives of Christianity.
5. On the other hand, when some of their missionaries have chosen to give instructions or adopt measures moderately unfavorable to slavery, the Society have vindicated their right to do so, even against the remonstrances of their few slaveholding patrons. Here a course of conduct different from that of the Foreign Missionary Board was preceded and accompanied by circumstances at least equally different.
6. A more marked feature of distinction between these two bodies appeared in 1857, when the Home Missionary Society adopted a rule implying that they considered slaveholding an unsatisfactory and suspicious relation, and declining to endorse it in any particular case, until inquiry and explanation had been made. It is chiefly on the strength of this rule that an anti-slavery character has been claimed for their line of policy and for their Society. With how little reason this claim has been made, an examination of the rule, and of its preceding and attendant circumstances, will show.
During the protracted investigation which resulted in showing the thoroughly pro-slavery character of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, the attention of many persons was of course turned to the slaveholding existing in the churches of the Home Missionary Society. Various petitions and memorials, remonstrating against this sin, were sent to the government of the Society, but without effect until, in the autumn of 1856, a memorial was sent from the General Association of Iowa, requesting the Home Missionary Society to withhold missionary appropriations from all churches containing slaveholders.
After balancing this with the opposite alternative, (of considering slaveholding churches equally eligible with others as candidates for aid from the Society,) they decided to split, the difference, and adopt the only third course possible in the premises, namely, such a discrimination among slaveholding churches as would enable them to avoid the reproach of that scenting to the shelter of the grosser specimens of that sin under the communion table. They embodied this decision in the following resolution, which was published on pp. 128, 9 of the 31st Annual Report, May, 1857:ï¿½
Resolved, That in the disbursement of the funds committed to their trust, the Committee will not grant and to churches containing slaveholding members, unless evidence be furnished that the relation is such as, in the judgment of the Committee, is justifiable, for the time being, is the peculiar circumstances in which it exists.
Fortunately, the vagueness of this rule-which leaves every thing to the disposal of the existing ï¿½Committee,ï¿½ and which might, for aught we know be made to exclude only cases like that of Deacon Nether land, of Tennessee, who amused himself by killing his slave with a handsawï¿½is relieved a little by a specification of the sort of questions which ï¿½the Committeeï¿½ propose to ask before admitting a slaveholding church to their list of beneficiaries, as follows:ï¿½
ï¿½For example, they wish to know, as heretofore, and perhaps rather more definitely than heretofore, whether their missionary agents, and the churches to which they minister, regard their system [slavery] as a divine and benevolent institution, to be perpetuated and extended throughout the land.ï¿½whether ï¿½they hold slaves from principle and choice,ï¿½ and to an extent limited only by their means of porches,ï¿½whether they regard and practice the rearing and expiration of slaves as a leg mate branch of industry,ï¿½whether the family relation among slaves is inviolable, or is subject to the convenience and profit of the master,ï¿½whether members, of the church buy and sell their brethren and sisters in Christ as articles of merchandize,ï¿½whether the slaves are kept in ignorance of Godï¿½s word, and that only way of salvation which it reveals.ï¿½
Since, the Executive Committee of the Home Missionary Society have presented these as specimens of the questions they would wish to ask in examining the applicant for aid to a slaveholding church, it is evident that some one of the possible forms of reply
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Will be satisfactory to the querists, aid will entitle the church in question to aid at their hands, in spite of its slaveholding. Let us suppose that the respondent in this examination should seriously present, in reply, the following statement; that the minister and church in question do not regard the system of slavery as either divine or benevolent, or as fit for perpetuity or extension: that they do not hold slaves from principle or choice, but by what they regards (and what the Society has hinted to them that they may properly regard) as an unfortunate necessity; that they do not practice the rearing of slaves for exportation, nor regard that as a legitimate branch of industry; that they subordinate both the convenience and profit of the master to a preservation of the family relation among the slaves who are members of the church; and that oral instruction id faithfully given to the slaves in regard to the World of God and the way of salvation. Let us suppose that a further question bring out the reply (coincident with the strongest intimation given in this Report, p.56, of the opinion of the Executive Committee themselves in regard to slavery) that ‘the principles of the Gospel require its ultimate extinction’; and finally, let us suppose that not only by garnish of pious talk, but by the strongest possible expressions of honesty and earnestness in language and manner, the respondent should assure the Committee that their idea of the sort of slaveholding at present allowable was the very one received and practiced by his church! What an enormous amount of oppression, what an prolific fountain of depravation to the slave, the master, the church and the community, would still remain in the elements of slavery left untouched by this catechism! Would their slaves, any more than those of the profanest drunkard or Sabbath-breaker, possess that liberty, or that free scope in the pursuit of happiness, to which God gave them ‘an inalienable right’? If the customary improvidence of slaveholders should bring their property (so called) into the hands of the sheriff, would he imitate their pious (!) scruple, and sell only those articles of merchandize which are not their master’s ‘brethren and sisters in Christ’? Would the Netherlands and Legrees of the place recognize and quote them as brother slaveholders one particle less, or use their respectability, their morality (!) and their piety (!!) as a shield against anti-slavery truth one particle less for that little private catechism in some snug closet of the ‘Bible House, Astor Place, New York’?
But, be it remembered, we have proceeded thus far on the supposition that the position of the slaveholding church in question is the very most favorable that possibility will allow to that relation, and that its members are in all points like-minded with the Reverend functionaries of the Home Missionary Society, looking, with them, to the ‘ultimate extinction’ of slavery as a highly desirable thing. The license for slaveholding given by the Home Missionary Society to those who should we be confined to this extravagantly improbable hypothesis? What if we take the far more likely supposition, that the slaveholding church-member in question is a liar as well as a slaveholder, and that his testimony upon the point in question, or upon any other in which his interest or course to be taken for granted that a robber will speak the truth? Did we not know, from the very nature of slavery—long before Dr. Parsons gave us his narrative of the deliberate and elaborate lies told by slaveholding church-members to deceive him—that every sort of evil fruit is to be expected from so corrupt a tree? But if the Reverend gentlemen of the Home Missionary Society give their open license to a class of slaveholders who are falsely represented as of the more outwardly decent and reputable sort, who shall compute the amount of harm flowing from this single act, to the slave and the master, the family and the community, the church and the world?
In further evidence that the Home Missionary Society art seeking rather to escape the reproach than to avail the sin of complicity with slavery, we may mention that their last Annual Report (May, 1858) neither copies the rule on Slavery which was adopted the previous year, and published in that year’s Report, nor alludes to it in any manner whatever. No intimation is given in this Report that there is any peculiar rule modifying the aid offered in the case of shareholding churches; and the elaborate directions respecting applications for aid neither intimate that slaveholding churches will be less readily helped than others, nor require any specification from the candidate for aid, as to whether it does or does not hold slaves, Here is their paragraph of directions to applicants, with their own italics, designating the more important particulars:—
‘Application for Aid.—Feeble congregations, applying for aid in supporting the gospel, are requested to embody in their application the following particulars, viz.:
The name of the church or congregation; the number of communicants, and the average number of attendants on public worship; the denomination and size of congregations immediately contiguous, with the distance to their places of worship; the total amount of salary which the applicants propose to make up, the portion of that salary which they pledge for the given time, and the arrangements that are made for securing it; whether aid is expected from any other source: and the least amount which will suffice from this Society; whether the minister for whom a commission is desired, is the pastor of the church or if not, whether any arrangements are made or contemplated in the course of the year with reference to his installment. These statements should be signed by the trustees and elders or deacons, or by a committee of the congregation, and confirmed by the certificates of two or more clergymen, acquainted with the facts’
We see from the above that, in its toleration of slaveholding as Christian, the Home Missionary Society differs from the American Board of Foreign Missions in degree only, not in kind; and alike as opponents of slavery and as friends of true Christianity, we are called by our duties to God and man to protest against the former of these as actively and strenuously as against the latter.—c. k. w.
“Inside View of Slavery: or a Tour among the Planters, By C. G. Parsons, M.D. With an Introductory Note by Mrs. H. B. Stowe.’ 12 mo., pp. 318. 
THE FREE LECTURES TO LADIES, at the New England Female Medical College, are well worthy the attention of all our lady readers. They are given at the Lecture Room of the College. No. 274 Washington St. (near Bedford,) and are illustrated by a large and excellent Anatomical Apparatus, by the aid of which, a good knowledge of the structure of the human body, And of the functions of its most carious and wonderful organs, can be acquired.
The lecturer is Miss FRANCES S COOKE, M. D., a graduate of the College, who has already had extensive experience as a teacher and lecturer. She is regarded as having a thorough and accurate knowledge has twice been employed to lecture to the young ladies of the State Normal School, at Salem, and has addressed several hundred ladies at the College-rooms. The Lectures next week will be given on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons, At 3 o’clock, and are free to all ladies who may wise to attend.—M.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for February, makes its appearance promptly. The following is its inviting table of contents:—
I. Ought Women to learn the Alphabet? II. The Morning Street. III. In a Cellar. IV. Hamlet at the Boston. V. El Llanero. VI. Bulls and Bears. VII. ‘The New Life’ of Dante. VIII. The Philter. IX. Did I? X. The Minister’s Wooing. XI. The Psalm and the Pine. XII. The Professor at the Breakfast-Table. XIII. White’s Shakespeare.
<c02>
RIGHTS OF COLOHED CITIZENS. 
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on Friday last, the following memorial from William C. Nell and other colored citizens of Massachusetts, was presented by Mr. Wells of Greenfield, and, after an earnest discussion, referred to the Committee on Federal Relations, by a vote of 174 to 23.
To the Senate and House of Representatives, in General Court assembled:
Your memorialists, freemen and citizens of Massachusetts, impartially enjoying and exercising the elective franchise with all other citizens, notwithstanding complexional differences, and recognized by the Constitution of the State, and the laws thereof, as entitled to equal rights and privileges, and to a common protection, respectfully represent:
That their feelings hare been greatly shocked and outraged, and some of their dearest rights cloven down, by the recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the Dred Scott case, by which that Court declares that they are not, and cannot become,—neither can the free colored citizens of any other State become,—citizens of the United States:
That this decision is in palpable violation of the 1st section of article 4th of the Constitution of the United States, which expressly declares, ‘The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States’:
That it is, therefore, no more worthy of respect and consideration than though it denied to all the citizens of this Commonwealth the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, and declared Massachusetts to be no longer a constituent member of the Union; but ought to be solemnly protested against, and resisted to the last extremity, by your honorable bodies, and by all the people of the State, as an intolerable act of usurpation and tyranny.
Your memorialists deem it wholly unnecessary to adduce any arguments to show either the injustice or the absurdity of the decision aforesaid. From the adoption of the Constitution of Massachusetts in 1780, to the present time, the State has disfranchised no man on account of his color; nor does a single law remain on her Statute Book, prejudicial to the rights or interests of any man, or class of men, on the ground of complexional differences. If we are not citizens of Massachusetts, then the Commonwealth is without citizens; and if, as such, we are not citizens of the United States, then, by the same rule, there are no such citizens, and only a privileged aristocracy at the North, and a detestable slave oligarchy at the South, remain to rule over a subjugated people.
To deny that those who are native-born and personally free—whose blood has been freely poured out on every battle-field, from the earliest to the latest conflict in behalf of American liberty and independence—who are eligible to every office in the gift of the people—by whose suffrages, in common with all others entitled to vote, the Constitution of the United States was adopted, the government brought into existence and put in operation, every President elected from George Washington to James Buchanan, and the Constitutions of many of the States ratified—who are found at the polls at every election, whether to vote for Governor. Lieutenant Governor, members of the Legislature, or Representatives to Congress—of whom allegiance and taxation are as strictly exacted as of the white inhabitants, and who have never been found wanting in the performance of their obligations and duties, but have always shown themselves to be animated by the most patriotic feelings—to deny that such are, or can be, citizens of the United States, in accordance with the plain meaning of the Constitution, is to outrage the common sense of mankind, and most wickedly to pervert judgment, that the foundations of freedom may be destroyed. For whether is greater—the power which creates the government, or the government which is created by it?
Your memorialists, therefore, deem the doctrine so ably laid down by Justice Curtis, of Massachusetts, in dissenting from that of Chief Justice Taney and his associates to be impregnable:—’First—That the free native born citizens of each State, are citizens of the United States. Second—That as free colored persons born within some of the States are citizens of those States, such persons are also citizens of the United States. Third—That every such citizen, residing in any State, has the right to sue and be sued in the Federal Courts, as a citizen of that State in which he resides’ But this righteous doctrine has been rejected by the Supreme Court, and your memorialists are left without protection or redress as citizens of the United States; and until that decision be reversed, or an entire change be wrought in the structure of the Supreme Court, (of which there is no hope.) or Massachusetts be divorced from the Union, they must stand deprived of those privileges and immunities which are guaranteed to them by the Constitution of their country.
Your memorialists would respectfully urge upon the General Court, that it would be an act of extreme perfidy to leave them without redress, or at least without a manly assertion of their constitutional rights, merely because they constitute so small a portion of the population; that this is a matter which vitally concerns the honor, good faith and sovereignty of the State; that it is a high-handed act of judicial usurpation, constituting one of a long series of acts on the part of a slaveholding oligarchy to uproot all the institutions and overthrow all the safeguards of Northern freedom; and that submission to it will indicate great moral degradation and the most abject cowardice. Hence, they would earnestly renew their appeal, that you will promptly declare the tyrannical decision aforesaid not to be binding upon the States, but utterly unconstitutional, and demand its immediate reversal.
Your memorialists also beg leave to remind the General Court, that, by the laws of the Southern States, they are still prohibited, under the severest penalties, from visiting any of those States, for any purpose, however laudable, on any pretence whatever; that a considerable number of the colored citizens of Massachusetts have already been seized in Southern c ports while engaged in lawful occupations, thrust into prison, and sold into interminable slavery; that the attempt of Massachusetts legally to test the validity of the laws, under which these hapless victims were thus seized and enslaved, was instantly and brutally repulsed by South Carolina and Louisiana, followed by the enactment of laws on their part, making it a penitentiary offence for any commissioner of Massachusetts, or of any other State, to endeavor to seek legal redress in such cases; and that Massachusetts has since lacked the courage to vindicate the rights of her colored citizens, leaving them a prey to the oppressor. Surely, the time has come for a fresh, strong and united effort, on the part of the Legislature, to demand the repeal of the atrocious laws aforesaid; and if this righteous demand shall be (as it doubtless will be) haughtily refuted, then it will be the duty of Massachusetts to take such measures, in self-defence, as shall effectually protect her sons from Southern outrage. What measures may be required, your memorialists leave to the judgment of the General Court—merely suggesting that if it is made constitutional to imprison any of the citizens of Massachusetts at the South, it can be made equally constitutional to declare, by statute, that every slaveholder coming into this State shall be instantly arrested, and kept in prison until the South recede from her present position; and further, if it shall be found impossible for Massachusetts to protect the rights of all her citizens in the Union, then it will be her duty, and should be her pride, to protect them outside of the Union, with such of her sister States as may be disposed to unite with her in the formation of a free and independent republic.
And as in duty bound, you petitioners will ever Pray.
[Signed by] WILLIAM C. NELL. 
and other colored Citizens of Massachusetts. 
<c03>
LECTURE OF GEORGE D.PRENTICE, ESQ.
SPRINGFIELD, (Mass.) Jan. 15,1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
I have, during the past week, listened to a lecture before the City Library Association, by George D. Prentice, Esq., of Louisville, Ky.. which afforded me so much gratification, that I cannot refrain from writing you a few lines in respect to it.
Mr. Prentice is a pleasant looking middle-aged gentleman, with a son of placid satisfaction and complaisance in his appearance. He is somewhat satirical, and his witty thrusts, though they come but seldom, cut clean and smooth, fairly demolishing the enemy with one stroke of sarcasm. The effect of his speaking, however, is greatly marred by his apparent forgetfulness of his audience. He appears as if talking to himself, in his study, rather than addressing a gathering of busy, thinking men and women. But this fault, though great, is but slight when compared with the tone of voice with which he utters his sentences. He speaks in a drawling kind of squeal, most painful to the ear, somewhat similar to the whining cant adopted by very ignorant persons in their religious exhortations.
But it is not the man nor his manners of which I wish to speak, but the matter of the lecture.
The subject was American Politics. The speaker, in commencing his lecture, spoke at some length of first principles, saying there should always be some established points above and beyond discussion, to which, in stormy and perilous times, like the present, all could refer. I may have failed to apprehend his meaning, but I did not understand him to teach that these first principles, the very foundation stones of our government, should be justice and truth, but, rather, union and harmony between the different sections of the country. He quoted the words (of Bolingbroke, I think,) that a perfect government is the greatest curiosity that the wit of man can ever invent, saving that we who live in this glorious republic have found this perfect government, and that it is not to us an object of curiosity, but of love and reverence. There is no longer a question as to its possibility, but every true patriot feels the greatest solicitude as to its permanence. The American Union, though in the flush of youth, and crowned with unexampled prosperity, yet exhibits unmistakable tokens of decay; tokens which cannot be concealed, if we would. The lecturer proceeded to say—There are three conditions which go to make up the permanence of a popular government, conditions which common sense and the history of the past alike show to be indispensable. The first of these conditions is education, political education, which he says is woefully deficient in our country. There are plenty of scholars, literature and science are taught and appreciated, but neither the school-house, the press nor the pulpit inculcates that political doctrine which was understood and practised in the good old times, when each was for all and all for each. Now an unbridled individualism is rife in our kind, and all wholesome restraint is thrown off.
The second condition mentioned by Mr. Prentice was loyalty, or a feeling of allegiance, which, he said, is almost wholly wanting among us. In proof of his position, he instanced the fact, that private judgment is held to be above law, and that a majority of the people, in some States, are in direct opposition to the government. When men hold the magistrate in contempt, they will soon despise the magistracy, and from hating the men who govern, they will learn to hate the government.
The third condition is a feeling of nationality, which, the lecturer said, does not exist among us. He dwelt at some length upon the last presidential canvas, when, the doctrine of disunion was boldly flouted, and when, in some localities, it required as much courage to speak for the Union as in former times it did to fight for it, or to speak against it.
He referred to the disputes in Congress when the ’abolitionists ‘and ‘fire-eaters’ engage in hand-to-hand battles, the different States immediately taking sides with their representatives, and making the quarrel their own. These things, said he, are dreadful to contemplate, but they are true.
He next proceeded to inquire by whose hand, and in what way shall deliverance come. In answer to the first question, ‘By whose hand?’ he replied, ‘By the hand of the people—they are sovereign, and if reform comes at all, it must come from them.’
The question, ‘In what way’ is more difficult to answer, and of the greatest importance to every patriot. Mr. Prentice went on to state, in a general way, that the needed change must be brought about by the rising generation, who must be educated to understand and respect the laws. Loyalty to the Union and the Constitution must be cultivated, the degenerate public men who are now in office must be replaced by others of a different stamp; and a great many more good and bad things, which it is not necessary that I should repeat.
Truly, if what Mr. Prentice tells us be true—if the Union does actually show unmistakable tokens of decay, we anti-slavery men and women may thank God and take courage.
If the Union is to be dissolved, the land of liberty is brought, by hundreds of miles, nearer the panting fugitive, if, indeed, the shackles do not fall from the limbs of the slave where he stands, in the cotton fields and the rice swarmps. What a shout of thanksgiving will go up from all the land when that blessed day shall come, when this ‘covenant with death and agreement with hell’ shall be annulled! We will labor and wait. A. F. R.
RETURNING TO SLAVERY. We find in the proceedings of the North Carolina ‘House of Commons ’for Jan. 3, (published in the Raleigh Standard of the next day,) the following:—
‘The bill for the relief of Emily Hooper, of Liberia, was then read.
Mr. Norwood stated that Emily was the daughter of a man who held a station of consequence in the Republic of Liberia. He came to this State, purchased her freedom, and carried her to Liberia. Her parents being dead, she is most anxious to return to the service of her former mistress at Chapel Hill. The bill was to permit her to do so.
Mr. Benbury thought there was a constitutional objection to enslaving a free African at present in Liberia. If he thought there was not, he would be in favor of the bill.
Mr. Norwood replied, that sue was at present a tree woman, who voluntarily wanted to return to slavery, but who would become the property of the State by returning here. To remove this and vest it in the person of her former mistress, was the object of the bill.
Mr. Benbury still thought that the act of Congress, as well as the Constitution, prohibited such a measure.
Mr. Kerr would vote in favor of the bill, as no act of Congress referred to the case. She was not of pure African blood, nor a native of Africa, and in returning to slavery in this State, she did not come within the acts of Congress prohibiting the slave trade. He considered this case as giving a high testimony in favor of the institution of slavery in this State, when a woman, after experiencing the benefits of liberty, begs permission to return as the slave of her former mistress.
The bill passed its second reading.’
THE AFRICANS THAT WENT WEST.—The Montgomery (Ala.) Confederation of the 30th ult. says that the lot of fifty Africans that pawed through that place a few days ago are quietly quartered on the plantation of a gentleman residing within thirty-five miles of that city, where they are being recruited from the hardships of their voyage, preparatory to taking their place in the field. The Confederation adds that ‘two of the miserable wretches had died since their arrival at the place of destination, and that many others are reduced to the grave’s brink by the sufferings and hardships of the Middle Passage.’
The testimony of Capt. Luke Christie, in regard to the raiment of these poor Africans, was that nearly all the negroes had some clothing, except when it dropped off while they were walking; some had coats, some pants, some shirts, and some blankets. None were entirely without clothing; some had only blankets.
<c04>
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15.
Mr. Giddings gave notice of an amendment, to abolish the traffic in slaves, to which this country, in the treaty negotiated with Great Britain in 1814, is committed. He said—Will gentlemen countenance the traffic in human flesh, and involve the nation in the guilt of perjury.
Mr. Smith of Virginia—What do you think of the Cooley trade and the French traffic it. Africans?
Mr. Giddings—I think it is as bad as the coastwise slave trade. If it was to sell the gentleman and his wife and children, I should object. (Laughter.)
Mr. Smith—I suggest whether it would not be as well to comment on the interesting fact that 35 vessels in the free States are engaged in the slave trade, and only five in the Southern, before undertakes to reform the morals of his neighbors.
Mr. Giddings—I would as soon lay my hands on a Northern as a Southern pirate. I am not sectional in my views. (Laughter.) In the course of his remarks he said if he should be nominated for Governor of Ohio, he wanted to make a straight-out issue with the Democratic party. He wished to know from his colleague, Mr. Cox, whether the latter’s party was for or against the slave trade.
Mr. Cox rose to pay his respects to his colleague for a few moments, and a crowd gathered round him. He said—Mr. Giddings knew that the Democratic members of the former session voted that it was inexpedient and unjust to restore the African slave trade, and that Democrats, North and South, are opposed to it.
Mr. Giddings remarked that he had alluded to the coastwise slave trade.
Mr. Cox resumed, and said that Mr. Giddings had undertaken to place Democrats in a false position, and inculcate the idea that the Democratic party was proslavery, when he knew that it was neither pro nor anti-slavery, but placed itself on the doctrine of leaving the people to regulate the matter as they may think proper. He hoped his colleague might be nominated for the Governorship of Ohio, and when the election was over, the latter would be left to ponder over the result, and exclaim, with Aristides, I yield to popular opinion in everything, even when the people drive me into exile.’ (Laughter.) His colleague made negro equality in his speech the other day, but in his printed speech modified his language.
Mr. Giddings remarked that his colleague misunderstood him.
Mr. Cox—Are you in favor of negroes in Ohio voting? 
Mr. Giddings—I expressed no such opinion.—(Laughter.)
Mr. Cox—Would you permit them to vote?
Mr. Giddings—I would whenever negroes excel the Democratic party in intellect and moral virtue. (Excessive laughter.)
Mr. Cox—My colleague does not come up to his doctrine. Is he or not in favor of African equality and negro suffrage in Ohio?
Mr. Giddings—I would put them and the Democrats on the same footing. (Laughter.) But I will not interfere in the quarrel between them.
Mr. Cox—The difference between my age and that of my friend, if I may so call him, will not allow me to put him to the torture, because he cannot be elected Governor of Ohio. In rising, all I wished to do was to put the Democratic party right, and it is right The gentleman can come on with his forces, and we will meet him.
We do not perceive either the wit or the policy of Mr. Giddings in evading so plain a question—a question which should have been promptly answered by him in the affirmative. Why shuffle?] 
[Correspondence of the Boston Atlas and Bee.]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 14, 1859.
The speech of Mr. Giddings in the House, yester day, was one of the veteran’s ablest expositions of sound Republican doctrine—perhaps a little extreme in some points, but that is owing to the political school in which he has been trained and has always; labored. It is probably the last extended speech he will ever deliver upon the floor of Congress, as his Congressional career terminates with this session which is now half spent. He spoke a full hour, and manifested an unusual degree of vigor and strength.
There are some speeches in embryo which will soon be delivered by very able men in exposition of the Republican party doctrines, tending to remove the impression of ‘ultraism’, made by the speeches of Mr. Washburn of Maine, and Mr. Giddings. These gentlemen, I understand, disclaim any such motive in their remarks, but they certainly did make that impression, and may possibly call forth some severe comment from the Americans.
The speeches of Mr. Wilson, Trumbull and Houston in the Senate in reply to Iverson’s silly gasconade. were a sufficient reply to his windy disunion buncomb. It has received more notice than it really deserved, but thus far it has called forth only derision and scorn. The speech of Mr. Houston yesterday was replete with common sense, sarcasm and wit, and Douglas remarked of it that a more withering rebuke was never administered on the floor of the Senate The day of crying disunion is past, and it will avail nothing in the future.
The words we have put in italics are very significant. Messrs. Giddings and Washburn are too ’ultra’ for the Republican party, forsooth; and so there must be ‘a whittling down’!]
SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS. In the House of Representatives on Monday last—
In presenting the petition of Edward Buffum and 389 others of Salem, that the rendition of fugitive slaves may be by law prohibited in Massachusetts—
Mr. CHASE of Salem, rose in his seat and said that he considered the law, commonly called the fugitive slave law, as odious and unconstitutional, and one which ought to be so declared. But at the same time, he was not in favor of the object prayed for in the petition, believing that no legislation of this House would give any adequate remedy in the premises.
Mr. CUSHING said that he desired to thank the gentleman from Salem for presenting the petition in his scat, and making his motion for reference orally, and also for expressing his opinion that nothing could be done. He should disagree with the gentleman in his estimate of the law, and as to the expediency of opposing any law which he might deem unconstitutional because inconvenient.
Mr. KIMBALL, of Boston, desired that the petition might be read.
MR. CUSHING wanted to know how it could be read after the action of the House. If he understood the gentleman from Salem (Mr. UPHAM) yesterday, the member who made the motion for reference had possession of the floor, and no other member could make a motion.
The Speaker said that any member could call for the reading of any paper at any time. He was informed that in Congress even the name of the member making the motion for reference was not given to the House. The papers were handed to the clerk, and by him distributed to the several committees.
Mr. CUSHING said he would not debate the matter now, but would at some other time.
INLAND TRAFFIC IN BLACKS. We have no intention of concealing our satisfaction at the rapidly increasing importance of the commerce in blacks between Missouri and the South. There is no true friend of the State who will not be gratified by the fact that the slaves of Missouri are rapidly finding purchasers who take them out of the State, and leave in their stead thousands of good dollars, enabling their former owners to pay for the labor of white men in tilling the ground and raising the rich crops which our farms are capable of producing under labor intelligently directed. The South is doing a good work for Missouri. We have to record the departure of another lot of negroes from our midst. The steamer E. M. Ryland, which arrived on Tuesday night from the Missouri, brought twenty-nine adults and children, male and female. They were the property of Tom Smith, Esq., of Independence, and bought at an average of one thousand dollars a head, as a speculation, by Mr. Gwin, of Vicksburg, Mississippi. Mr. Gwin says that six or seven of these are among the finest negroes he ever saw, and coat him twelve hundred dollars each.—St. Louis Democrat.
What a cause for exultation!!
MISSISSIPPI PREPARED FOR WAR. It will be remembered that Mr. Jefferson Davis recently counselled the sovereign State of Mississippi to prepare for war. The Vicksburg Whig gives the following inventory of the arms belonging to the State, discovered to be on hand:—
‘4 flint-lock muskets—all rusty, and no breeches to at least two.
1 cannon.
7 bayonet!—rusty, with no points.
A pile of belts and scabbards, but no swords. 50 cartridge boxes.’
The Whig adds:—
‘We have now 5 Major-Generals, 10 Brigadier-Generals and 60 Colonels, 60 Lieutenant-Colonels, 60 Majors, and will soon have 600 Captains. 1200 Lieutenants, 4800 Sergeants, and 4800 Corporals. We are happy to inform them, however, that we have no privates—the Legislature having dispensed with that useless portion of the army.’
<c05>
TWENTY-EIGHT MEN STARVED TO DHATH.—The immediate destruction of life and property was not the only result of the fearful explosion of the magazine at Havana, on the 29th of September. On the 23d ult. the bodies of twenty-eight men were dug from under the ruins, who had probably died from starvation, although there were soldiers enough in and around the city, to hare turned over every stone within a day after the occurrence of the accident.
A fearful catastrophe occurred at the Victoria Theatre, London, on the 27th. Just before the termination of an afternoon performance, and when the gallery stairs were crowded with the evening audience, waiting for admission, a false alarm of fire was raised, and a panic act in, during which the pleasure on the gallery stairs was such that sixteen boys were crushed and trampled to death, while many more were injured. The Theatre is situated in a very low neighborhood, and so rapidly did the excitement abate, that the evening performance was proceeded with as usual.
The colored people of Indiana are holding a Convention at Indianapolis, for the purpose of considering the beat means for bringing about a modification or repeal of the various laws of the State with regard to negro suffrage, etc.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by Daniel S. Whitney.
At Cedar Falls, Iowa,$1 00`
Delhi. Iowa, 1 75
Sand Spring. Iowa,1 00
Hopkinton, Iowa, 0 39
Rockford, Illinois,0 83
Guilford, Illinois, 0 30
Rockton, Illinois, 0 71
Roscoe, Illinois 0 51
Beloit, Wisconsin, 1 27
Mount Pleasant, Indiana, 1 74
Germantown, Indiana, 1 35
Charlestown, Ohio, 1 40
Salem, Ohio, 4 00
Galbert, Ohio, 0 09
Parkman, Ohio, 0 36
Peruville, N. Y., 1 06
McLean, N.Y., 1 66
Etna, N.Y., 1 25
By Mrs. Frances H. Drake.
Dr. Marshall S. Perry, Boston. Mass., 1 00
Thomas Groome, Boston, Mass., 1 00
Mrs. W. H. Long. Roxbury, Mass., 0 50
Mrs. E. Jones, Roxbury, Mass., 0 25
William Ives, Salem, Mass., 2 00
Lydia H. Chase, Salem, Mass., 5 00
Dr. Sam’l Johnson, Mass., 5 00
Rev. Sam’l Johnson, Salem, Mass., 2 00
Friend, Salem, Mass., 0 50
Rev. E. R. Harding, Nashua, N. H
For Tract Fund, 0 25
Four friends, do. do. do.0 97
Wm. R. Bryden, Boston, Mass., by Mr.Wallcut,1 00
Thos. Martin, West Boylston, Mass, by do.0 25
Geo. H. Havens, Moriah, N. Y., donation, 1 00
Collection for Tract Fund, by N. R. Johnston, Vt.
At Williamstown, Vt., 0 31
Barnet, Vt., 0 89
Lower Waterford, Vt., 1 44
East Orange, Vt., 1 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Jan. 20, 1859.

NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Third Annual Anti-Slavery Convention, for the State of New York, will be held at ALBANY, on MONDAY, TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, January 31, and February 1 and 2, 1859.
This Convention, held under the auspices of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and of annual recurrence, is important, not only for its local effect, but, through representatives in attendance, and members of the Legislature, is designed to reach all parts of the State. At no previous period since the commencement of the Anti-Slavery struggle <w> here been a more pressing need of united, earnest a<w> tiring effort for the immediate and entire abolition of chattel slavery. While the great question, in some of its aspects, is now more widely and earnestly discussed than heretofore, it is also true that the aggregate number of slaves was never before so large, and never so rapidly increasing; that, besides the revolting features of slave-breeding and the inter-State slave trade, the African slave trade is now virtually reopened; that heroic fugitives may still be hunted with impunity, and their friends persecuted, fined and imprisoned on the soil of New York; that the schemes of slave propagandism by those ‘in authority,’ were never more threatening, bold and defiant.
Let the friends of impartial freedom, throughout the State, spare no efforts to render this Convention such, in character and influence, as the exigencies of the cause demand. Give, if possible, your personal presence, your friendly counsel and co-operation. Let every county in the State be represented by one or more delegates.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, PARKER PILLSBURY, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, OLIVER JOHNSON. AARON M. POWELL, and other speakers will be in attendance.
The Convention will be held in ASSOCIATION HALL; the opening session, on Monday evening, at half-past 7 o’clock.
Mrs. C. M. SEVERANCE, of Roxbury, will give her lecture on Humanity—a Definition and a Plea—at Nashua, N. H., on Friday evening, 28th inst. She delivered the same before the lyceum at North Brookfield, on the 7th. It is an admirable lecture, and we hope will be given in many places.
Life hat few charms for the Dyspeptic, which is not to be wondered at, when we take into account the amount of bodily suffering which he endures. By the use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the picture is reversed, and the bright tide of life appears. 
The Post Office address of-A. G. Spalding is ST Louis, Missouri—Box 1952.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will give a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday next, Jan. 23d. Subject—What is Infidelity? and, Who are the Infidels?
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Newburyport, Sunday, Jan. 23, all day and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on American Slavery as follows:—
North Brookfield, Sunday evening, January 23.
MILFORD.—PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak at Milford, at the Brick Church, on Sunday evening, Jan. 23.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Reading, Friday, January 21.
Waltham Sunday, January, 23.
(at the Universalist Meeting-house.)
Greenwood, Monday, January 24.
Stoneham, Sunday, January 30.
GIVE HIM A CHANCE.—A young colored carpenter wants immediate employment. Apply to WM. a NELL, 21 Cornhill. Dec, 31.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.—A young able-bodied Fugitive, from the South, wants a place. He can take care of cattle, drive horses, wait and tend, chop wood, or work on a farm. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT. Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON.
DIED—In this village, yesterday. DELIA M., daughter of JOHN LANDON, Esq., in the 17th year of her age. The deceased was a bright, happy girl, beloved by all who knew her. Her sudden departure from our midst has brought gloom to many countenances, and grief to the hearts of all her friends and acquaintances. 
This is Death’s first summons in our village for 1859, and the new bell now being raised on the Methodist church will to-day, in its first vibrations, sound the knell of the departed.
The budding rose had reached full bloom,
And softly drops into the tomb; 
The sturdy pine grieves for the dead, 
In sorrow bows its stately head. 
—Rutland (Vt.) Courier, Jan, 14.
<c06>
TO DYSPEPTICS,
And all who suffer the tortures which the disease inflicts, in one form or another of its many phases: Cure yourselves permanently and speedily by using
The Oxygenated Bitters.
The ‘Weekly Novelette,’ of Sept. 18, says:
Dyspepsia is one of the prevailing diseases at our country. This is owing both to climate and the almost universal habit of eating our meals too rapidly to admit of proper digestion. But In spite of these adverse circumstances, this disease, even when it becomes ehr nic. disappears rapidly by the we of the Oxygenated Bitters, which have been found to prove an infallible remedy.
From the Publisher of a weekly circulated Magazine.
MESSRS. S. W. FOWLE & Co: I have taken three bottles of the Oxygenated Bitters, and have derived great benefit from their use. I have been much troubled with Dyspepsia for several years, and found nothing that afforded me any relief until I used the Bitters. I most cheerfully recommend then to all who are afflicted with this troublesome and stubborn complaint.
JAMES ROBINSON, 
of the ‘Student and Schoolmaster.’
From Gen. A. C. DODGE, our Minister to Spain.
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 18.
DR. GEO. B. GREEN: DEAR SIR—The Oxygenated Bitters with which you were so kind as to furnish me, have had a most salutary effect in my case. I was troubled with Dyspepsia for four years, during which time I tried many remedies, but never met with any so good as your Bitters. I am now in the enjoyment of good health, and I hope and believe that all who use the Oxygenated Bitters will find them as serviceable as I have found them.
With high respect, your ob’t servant, 
A. C. DODGE. 
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Jan. 21—4tis 

JAMESTOWN INSTITUTE.
IN May last, we opened our School with only one pupil as boarder, and no prospect of a second; with no expression of confidence in our peculiar method from any one, and without counsel or aid. We have now twenty-eight pupils in the family, four Assistant Teachers, a Matron, and a lady to superintend the wardrobe of the children. We daily receive letters of inquiry from all parts of the country—more than we can properly answer. Bach month our family has been larger than the preceding, and as happy a family as we ever saw together. Each week we have promise of more, and a GREATER WORK OPENS BEFORE US THAN WE CAN POSSIBLY PERFORM ALONE.
Our method is original and very peculiar. We never reward merit nor punish transgression, but have more confidence than ever that ‘the rank weeds that infest the moral character of children will wither and die’ in an atmosphere of love and purity. We never assign lessons to be committed to memory, but our pupils give their own thoughts in their own words, and go to their books as they go to the table for the food they need and crave. To a great extent we have won them from mere PLAY to amusements that develop as well as entertain. The sexes associate with a freedom, purity and beauty we are proud to have observed and examined.
A few weeks ago, a stranger whom we had never before seen, called on us and carefully inquired into our method, and we have just received hw ‘Christmas gift’ of $100, as an expression of his appreciation of our plan and method. This led us to publish this circular, believing our movement to be demanded by human progress, and that others desire to aid such an Institution. 
With the donation received we shall found a Juvenile Library, and we invite donations of juvenile and scientific books and periodicals, and especially of tools and specimens for a Geological Cabinet. We shall welcome pecuniary aid in any form. If ten persons would take scholarships for one year, it might double the practical value of the labors of five teachers.
More than all, we need an energetic and loving man to unite with us in this work—a manly man, who can relieve us of all duties except the school and general care. We need a Matron who knows she has love enough to soothe the troubled spirits of children, and strengthen their good resolutions.
S. Albro, Esq., of Buffalo, and A. E. Newton of Boston, have spent some time with us. and know something of our plans and purposes. Our patrons are:
George Kellog, S University place, New York City.
J. Seymour Brown, 112 Lex. Av. New York City.
M. S. Roberts, Esq., Pekin., Niagara Co., N. Y,
Dr. C. Parker, Fredonia, Chaut. Co., N.Y.,
Dr. J. F. Carter. Laona, N.Y.,
J. G. Rood, Esq., Brigham, N.Y.,
David Mc Wethy, Wethersfield Spring, 
Dr. S. R. Mettler, Hartford, Conn. N.Y.,
Asa H. Rogers, Esq., Waterbury. Conn., N.Y,
Wm. Ritchie, Esq., Springfield, Mass.
Amend S. Brett, St. Louis, Mo.
William Paul. Esq., Peru, Ill.
J. L. McCormic, Esq., Peru, III
Dr. J. F. Weeks, Esq., Peru III
Mrs. H. Whitehead, Esq., Peru III
Jesse Blinn, Esq., Rockford. Ill. 
J. M. Sterling, Esq., Cleveland, Ohio. 
C. J. For, Esq. Foxburg, Forest Co., Pa. 
Louis Belrose. Philadelphia, Pa.
We refer inquirers to any of the above, but more especially to the school and family, where we shall welcome the most careful inquiry and the most faithful criticism.
O. H. WELLINGTON. 
Jamestown, N. Y. Jan. 1, 1859. 

TWO
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK,
AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON,
BY MISS S. D. CARMAN.
Physiological, Mechanical & Pathological Physician.
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o’clock, to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o’clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guardians and Philanthropists win find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine, for sale and fitted at her office, Linden Hall,—open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Beware of imposition practised by pretenders who recommend worthless and useless articles.O1 6m

John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH. 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages, Twelve Messages from the Spirit JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,’ through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy—written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington—first, as recorded by themselves when in the body—and second, as written by them through medimisutic agency.
Price $1,50 Jan

MPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st, and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated hi the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves. October 8

Something New!
THE Subscriber, having invented a new, and. it is believed, much superior MOWING AND REAPING MACHINE, with a simple but sure RAKER attachment, wishes to find an honest man with the necessary means to potent and introduce the same to the public, for which a liberal share will be given. None other need apply.
Further information may he had by addressing a line to Winfield, Herkimer county, N. Y., or calling personally.
Dec. 24. DANIEL HITCHINGS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the New Hover, published in 1857.
COURTSHIP OF CAFT. MILES STANDISH.
A true Historical Romance.
BY <illegible> 1792.
About this rather singular production, a word or two necessary. Whether it be really a genuine antique or more modern imitation, is a question for critics to discuss. We can only throw such light upon it as we happen to posses, and such at the document bears on the face of it.
In order to ascertain whether the ballad was founded in truth, we have toned to some old New England Chronicles, and find that the whole story is true to the letter.
Capt. Miles Standish did come over in the May-flower, and his wife’s name was Rose. Mr. John Alden and Mr. William Mullins were among the number that came over in the same vessel. Mr. William Mullins had a daughter whose name was Priscilla, and the main incident, according to the chronicles, actually occurred precisely as related in the poem.
BALLAD.
Miles Standish in the Mayflower came
Across the stormy wave,
And in that little band was none
More generous or brave.
’Midst cold December’s sleet and snow
On Plymouth rock they land;
Weak were their hands, but strong their hearts,
That pious pilgrim band.
Oh, and it was in their poor huts
To hear the storm-wind blow;
And terrible at midnight hour
When yelled the savage foe.
And when the savage, grim and dire,
His bloody work began,
For a champion brave, I have been told,
Miles Standish was the man.
But oh, his heart was made to bow
With grief and pain full low,
For sickness on the pilgrim band
Now dealt a dreadful blow.
In arms of death so fast they fell,
They scarce were buried,
And his dear wife, whose name was Rose,
Was laid among the dead.
His sorrow was not loud, but deep—
For her he did bemoan;
And such keen anguish wrung his heart,
He could not live alone.
Then to John Alden he did speak;
John Alden was his friend;
And said, ‘Friend John, unto my wish
I pray thee now attend.
My heart is sad, ‘tis very sad,
My poor wife Rose has gone;
And in this wild and savage land
I cannot live alone.
To Mr. William Mullins, then,
I wish you would repair,
And see if he will give me leave
To wed his daughter fair.’
Priscilla was his daughter’s name,
Comely and fair was she,
And kind of heart she was, withal,
As any maid could be.
John Alden, to oblige his friend,
Straightway to Mullins went.
And told his errand like a man.
And asked for his consent.
Now Mr. Mullins was a sire
Quite rational and kind,
And such consent would never give
Against his daughter’s mind.
He told John Alden if his child
Should be inclined that way.
And Captain Standish was her choice,
He had no more to say.
He than called in his daughter dear,
And straightway did retire,
That she might with more freedom speak,
In absence of her sire.
John Alden had a bright blue eye,
And was a handsome man,
And, when he spoke, a pleasant look
O’er all his features ran.
He rose, and in a courteous way
His errand did declare,
And said, ‘Fair maid, what word shall I
To Captain Standish bear?’
Warm blushes glowed upon the cheeks
Of that fair maiden then;
At first she turned away her eyes,
Then looked at John again;
And then, with downcast, modest mien,
She said, with trembling tone,
‘Now prithee, John, why dost thou not
Speak for thyself alone?’
Deep red then grew John Alden’s face,
He bade the maid good bye;
But well she read, before he went,
The language of his eye.
No matter what the language said,
Which in that eye was rife—
In one short month, Priscilla was
John Alden’s loving wife.

‘THE ROCK’
In the Valley of the El Ghor.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Dead Petra in her hill-tomb sleeps,
Her stones of emptiness remain;
Around her sculptured misery sleeps
The lonely waste of Edom’s plain.
From the doomed dwellers in the cleft
The bow of vengeance turned not back:
Of all the myriads, none are left
Along the Wady Mouse’s track.
Clear in the hot Arabian day
Her arches spring, her statues climb;
Unchanged, the graven wonders pay
No tribute to the spoiler, Time!
Unchanged the awful lithograph
Of power and glory undertrod,
Of nations scattered like the chaff
Blown from the threshing-floor of God.
Yet shall the thoughtful stranger turn
From Petra’s gates with deeper awe,
To mark afar the burial urn
Of Aaron on the cliffs of Hor.
And where upon its ancient guard
The Rock, El Ghor, is standing yet,
Looks from its turrets desert-ward,
And keeps the watch that God has set,—
The same as when, in thunders loud,
It heard the voice of God to man;
As when it saw in fire and cloud
The angels walk in Israel’s ran!
Or when from Esien-Geber’s way
It saw the long procession file,
And heard the Hebrew timbrels play
The music of the loudly Nile.
Or saw the tabernacle pause,
Cloud-bound, by Kadesh Barnea’s wells,
While Mesas graved the sacred laws,
And A<w> swung his golden bells.
Rock of the desert, prophet-sung!
How grew its shadowing pile, at length,
A symbol, in the Hebrew tongue,
Of God love and strength.
<c02>
On lip of bard and scroll of sear,
From age to age went down the name,
Until the Shiloh’s promised year,
And Christ, the Rock of Ages, came!
The path of life we walk to-day
Is strange as that the Hebrews trod;
We need the shadowing rock as they.
We need, like them, the guides of God.
God send His angels, Cloud and Fire,
To lead us o’er the desert land!
God give our hearts their long desire,
His shadow in a weary land!
[National Era.

The Liberator.
KIDNAPPING OR NO KIDNAPPING ON
THE SOIL OF MASSACHUSETTS.
WEST DUXBURY, Sunday. Jan. 9, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
Are you for or against kidnapping? This is the question, the great and vital question, now before the people of this State—the only question of vital importance that is to occupy the attention of the Legislature this winter. Will the old Bay State allow her citizens, her voters, her legislators, her judges, and her Governors (for every voter is a legislator, a judge and a Governor) to be kidnapped? Every man or woman is a kidnapper who directly or indirectly favors the seizure of any man, woman or child on the soil of Massachusetts, under any pretence whatsoever, with a view to make him or her a slave.
Kidnapping is the seizure of a man with a view to enslave him—nothing more, nothing less, and nothing else. No matter by whose authority, or under what pretence, a man seizes another man, a woman or a child, to enslave him or her, he is a kidnapper, and all who aid and abet or connive at it, even by silence, are partakers in the crime, and should be branded and treated in society as kidnappers. Shall the old Bay State look on and see this blackest of crimes perpetrated on her soil by any man or set of men, and be dumb, and thus confess herself powerless to defend her citizens from it? Is Massachusetts bound in chains, and laid helpless at the feet of kidnappers? Let us know it if she is.
To test this question, let the people come up to the State House, at once, by their petitions, from every town, city, village and neighborhood, from Province-town to Pittsfield, and demand of the Legislature a law, declaring every man a kidnapper, and liable to the doom of kidnappers, who shall attempt to arrest, under any pretence or by any authority, a man, a woman, or a child, on the soil of Massachusetts, with a view to make him or her a slave.
A man, coming to this State, and residing in any town one year, and paying a poll tax, is a citizen, and has a right to vote, whatever be his color, creed, or condition, provided he is not on the town as a pauper, nor on trial fur crime. Will the State allow her voters, her citizens, her rulers, to be kidnapped, by any power? Let the people come to the State House, and demand an explicit answer of the Legislature; and let not a man who goes for kidnapping ever be allowed to pollute the State House again by his presence there. Let every member of the present Legislature be compelled to register his name for or against kidnapping.
‘All men are endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty.’ People of Massachusetts! having uttered this grand, self-evident truth, will you allow a man, the image of your God, and an heir of immortality, to be seized by any man or set of men, under any pretence, and put on trial before any tribunal, on the issue whether God made him a freeman or a slave, a man or a beast? Come to the rescue, people of Massachusetts! Save your native State from the damning footprints of the kidnapper! Say to the world, the moment a slave from Carolina, or from any spot on earth, touches your soil, he is free, as God made him, and safe from the fangs of the slave-hunter.
In making laws for this State, what has the Legislature to do with the Constitution of any other State or nation? Nothing. If the Constitution of the Union sets at nought the very first principles of the Constitution of the State, which Constitution is the State to follow in making and administering her laws? Let no man or set of men come upon the soil of the old Bay State, and there, in the presence of all her cherished memories, trample the fundamental law of the State beneath their feet by kidnapping her citizens.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

AN ACCEPTABLE NUMBER.
EDEN, Lancaster Co., Pa., Jan. 3, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON:
Indulge me in a few remarks on some of the contents of No. 53 of the Liberator. And first, of the revolutions of the Essex Co. A. S. Society. I do not recollect ever to have seen such a series of appropriate epithets applied to the execrable system which they denounce; and yet they do not, because words cannot, depict the monstrous enormity. We want some new words that would not have fitness, if applied to any thing but this unparalleled wickedness.
Secondly: the Ashtabula Sentinel, Milwaukee Democrat, and True American, have my hearty thanks for what they say of the New York Tribune, as has W. I. G. for copying their outspoken words regarding that overgrown, monopolizing, dictatorial periodical. I only regret that they did not begin their strictures sooner; but I am not without hope that, even yet, other journalists, who have been building Greeley’s fortunes on the ruins of their own, will remember that there were managing, prosperous men in the world prior to his advent, and that they themselves have some manhood, if they will cease to lean on, and look up to, a leader. The ice is broken; let them keep it open. A word to the wise may effect more than a lecture or a book for the unthinking.
Thirdly: I would speak, if I knew how, of the two letters from Elizabeth B. Chase and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Please do not call them ‘ladies’ any more; they have established their claim to a far nobler name. They have proved that they are WOMEN. Every thing alive in me overflows with gratitude for their womanly feelings respecting the fearful wrong which they were invited virtually to palliate. Buy the homestead of a man who waged a seven years’ war for liberty, political liberty, while he refused personal liberty to hundreds of chattels who, in the mean time, were laboring in the fields of that homestead, now to be purchased to perpetuate the memory of this friend of liberty! Gentle women did not say what an aged man may and will say, that it is superlatively ridiculous! He will say more. It was not a womanly conception. It does not comport with the best elements of her character to overlook the wrongs of four millions of human beings, one half of whom are of her own sex, whose persons are never inviolate, to commemorate one man who long since was placed beyond the reach of earthly privation and suffering. No, it is not a womanly idea. Women do not yet figure in the political world, but the sex which does are not slow to seize any thing which may gain reputation abroad, or be tuned into political capital at home. Pride, partisanship and thoughtlessness will account for the movement, and designing party leaders will vie with such other in their praise of it, while the unthinking will say amen, and give their money.
It is no less a privilege than pleasure to give a humble response, at seventy-six, to opinions so just, feelings as humans, and utterances so brave, as those of the noble women just named. Let the reflecting sisterhood fall into rank with then. May E. B. Chase and E. C. Stanton merit and realize the blessing of permanent peace, is the secret, silent prayer of 
AMOS GILBERT.
<c03>
From the New York Independent.
WORKING WITH ERRORISTS.
Last week we made a partial confession of our Faith. This week we make a partial confession of our Practice. And we now print the entire first part of the article from the N. Y. Examiner, the last part of which it was more convenient to dispose of first:—
The ‘Fraternity’ and Mr. Beecher.
In the congregation ministered to by Theodore Parker, at the Music Hall in Boston, known as the ‘Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society,’ there is a literary association styled the ‘Fraternity.’ Said Fraternity has got up a series of ‘Fraternity Lectures,’ an avowed object of which, if a newspaper announcement may be credited, was to give to the ‘ideas’ of Mr. Parker a freer scope than the Lyceum platform allows. But whether that was the purpose or not, it is manifest that the effect would be, so far as any impression was made on the public, to give increased popularity to the man and his ‘church.’ If the lectures prove, as has been claimed, ‘the most successful course of the season,’ they will reflect a certain lustre upon the ‘Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society,’ and upon the man whose infidelity is its pervading spirit. Such an effect, we should suppose, would be deprecated—at least, would not be even constructively aided—by a sincere friend of evangelical religion. But the pastor of the Plymouth Church in Brooklyn has appeared upon Mr. Parker’s platform, to lend to it his popularity. Mr. Beecher has asserted his right to do in all things what is right in his own eyes, and we are not disposed, even if we were able, to abridge his liberty. But it is utterly incomprehensible by us, how he reconciles with his love for the Gospel such open aid and comfort to its bitterest enemies. To appear with Mr. Parker, contemporaneously or successively, upon a platform which represents neither him nor his ‘ideas,’ is one thing; to assist in giving eclat to an infidel enterprise is a very different thing—and that is what every Fraternity lecturer, and every purchaser of a Fraternity ticket, has done.
Of course, we believe in newspapers, and in editors. Yet, even an editor may be mistaken, and a newspaper may fall into misstatements! And the Examiner has in this instance been misled by a too confiding trust in religious or secular newspapers.
It is true that the Fraternity Course was under the supervision of members of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston, but it is not true that it was got up for the sake of giving Mr. Parker’s ‘ “ideas’’ a freer scope than the Lyceum platform allows’—if by ideas the Examiner means Mr. Parker’s characteristic religious views. On the contrary, it was known that Mr. Parker was preparing four historical discourses, on Washington, John Adams, Jefferson, and (we believe) Franklin. But such was the ill-odor in Boston of Mr. Parker’s religious notions, that a studious care had been exercised to keep him from Boston lecture platforms, though history, art, or belles letters were his theme, lest the influence of any thing that was good in him should ‘reflect a lustre’ upon that part of him which religious men so much deprecate.
But, on the other hand, the attempt to suppress a man, and to silence his speech, on the great topics which are common to men of all religious views, must produce, not only among his personal friends, but among honorable men who utterly differ from him in religion, a determination that he shall have a chance to speak, at least; and then, if people did not wish to hear an ‘infidel,’ on secular topics, of course they could stay at home. In other respects, this Lecture Course was like ordinary courses. The only respect in which it was peculiar was, that Theodore Parker was to deliver four lectures in the course, upon Washington, John Adams, Jefferson, and Benjamin Franklin.
The funds, over and above the expenses, if there should be any, were not designed to support either Mr. Parker or the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of which he is the minister. They were to be employed in charitable purposes, and for the most part among the poor and unfriended!
And if the young men of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston judged that we were one who would be glad to co-operate with Theodore Parker, in all honorable ways which did not imply approbation of his theology, for objects common to all good men; and if they judged that we should be forward to aid all measures, among all sects, which had for their object the improvement of the young, and the relief of the suffering, they judged rightly. We believe in the right of free speech even of men whose speech, when delivered, we do not believe!
Did the Examiner think that the young gentlemen of Mr. Parker’s society got up a course of popular lectures for the sake of covertly propagating infidelity, and invited me, without disclosing the inward scheme, to garnish the course, and to lend my influence, blindfolded, to such an aim? Or did it never enter the head of the Examiner that a man might associate with men from whose theological tenets he utterly dissented, because he sympathized with the special benevolence which they would perform? because he had an ethical sympathy with them, in spite of their theology? because he believed that a good man ought always to seek occasions of working with men, rather than of working away from them?
We should be sorry to suppose ourselves singular in this judgment. Are we to take the ground that no orthodox man shall encourage the young to self-improvement and to works of benevolence, unless they are sound in the faith? Because Mr. Parker teaches a wrong theology to the young men of his charge, are we to hold off and refuse to help them when they endeavor to live a great deal better than we should suppose their theology would incline them to? But this is the very ease in hand. The young men in Mr. Parker’s society undertook to do good by a course of general lectures; we lectured in the course; good papers are full of grief; and the Examiner regards it as ‘utterly incomprehensible.’ We must be still more incomprehensible, then, when we say, that, though we would earnestly desire men to believe aright in religion, yet, if they will not, then we hope that their life will be better than their creed. And, if we see men of a heretical turn of mind practising Gospel virtues and charities, we shall certainly encourage and help them. For men do not derive the right to do good from the Thirty-Nine Articles; nor need they go to the Westminster Confession for liberty to recover the intemperate, set free the bond, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, educate the ignorant, and give sleigh-rides to beggars’ children that never before laughed and cuddled in a buffalo-robe! It seems to in a great deal better business for a Christian man to encourage men in well-doing, than to punish them for wrong thinking!
But the Examiner thinks that the success of this course of lectures will ‘reflect a certain lustre upon the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, and upon the man whose infidelity is its pervading spirit.’ Well, what then? Are we to punish an infidel for his infidelity by refusing hint all credit for personal goodness, for active benevolence, for practical humanity?
If any body does right, be ought to be applauded. If Mr. Parker does well, he deserves the credit for well-doing. If the young men of his charge do well, they deserve all the ‘lustre’ of it. Or shall we take ground that no man who is not of sound orthodox faith is to have any ‘lustre’ for practical virtues? Must nobody be counted ethically right until he is theologically sound? Such a doctrine would be monstrous! Every just and generous man in the community ought to rejoice in the good conduct of every man, without regard to his speculative views of theological affinities!
If a man institutes a temperance movement, must I refuse to help him because, being a Universalist minister, his zeal and fidelity in that cause would ‘reflect a lustre’ upon him and his sect? If a man would establish and endow a hospital, must I refuse to co-work with him because, being a Unitarian, its success would reflect a certain lustre upon that faith?
When, in the pestilence in New Orleans, the Sisters of Charity did not count their lives dear to them, but night and day, fearless of death and defiant of fatigue, gave their utmost being to the care of the miserable sick, must I, a Protestant, refuse admiration or fellowship, for fear a ‘certain lustre’ would shine upon the Roman Catholic Church?
If a Jew does nobly, he deserves the lustre which right-doing ought to confer; if an Atheist or an Infidel live virtuously and act honorably, he should have the ‘lustre’ belonging to virtue and honor!
Does the Examiner think that we do not care for our own theologic views? We care a good deal. We shall yield them to no man’s dictation. We shall not endorse any man’s theology which differs from them. We have enough of the old disciple nature left to feel very desirous that folks who will cast out devils should do it in our train. If they won’t, why then we will help them to do it in their way! But, if we were to help an Episcopal move-
<c04>
ment for general benevolence, would any man say that we endorsed High-Church notions? If we were affectionately and urgently invited to Princeton, to examine the senior class in theology, and give them some tender cautions on parting from Turretin and entering the life of realities, would any body be so cruel as to say that we believed in high Calvinism, or were indifferent to all the woes of conscience produced by that energetic system? Bishop Hughes will never invite us to speak in his new cathedral, and we not promptly accept it. But we affectionately appeal to the Examiner whether, on such an interesting occurrence, be would think it his duty to pierce us with such remarks as are now puncturing our peace from his words?
If I had gone to Boston to buy carpets or books, or if I had gone to Boston to help the Republican cause, no question would have been raised. In selfish and worldly interests men are allowed co-operation for common ends. But if I divest myself of all selfish or secular aims, and rise to a higher plane of benevolence, and seek to raise the fallen, to restore the lost, to purify the vicious, to elevate the ignorant, and to cheer the poor and neglected, Christian ministers and editors will not let me co-operate for such divine objects with every man who will sincerely work for them; but I must pick for men of right philosophy, for men right in all theology! Thus we allow selfishness to go with flowing robes and a loose girdle. We make her feet light and her hands nimble. But upon religion we put iron shoes and steel gloves. We burden her with mail, and underneath it all we draw the girt of conscience to the last hole. Then she goes slowly forth, scarcely able to walk or to breathe!
I have long ago been convinced that it was better to love men than to hate them; that one would be more likely to convince them of wrong belief by showing a cordial sympathy with their welfare, than by nipping and pinching them with logic. And although I do not disdain, but honor philosophy applied to religion, I think that the world just now needs the Christian Heart more than any thing else. And, even if the only and greatest question were the propagation of right theology, I am confident that right speculative views will grow up faster and firmer in the summer of true Christian loving, than in the rigorous winter of solid, congealed orthodoxy, or the blustering March of controversy.
Does any body inquire why, if so thinking, we occasionally give such sharp articles upon the great religious newspapers, the Observer, the Intelligencer, and the like? O, pray do not think it for any ill-will. It is all kindness! We only do it to keep our voice in practice. We have made orthodoxy a study. And by an attentive examination of the Presbyterian, the Observer, the Puritan Recorder, and such like unblemished confessors, we have perceived that no man is truly sound who does not pitch into somebody that is not sound; and that a real modern orthodox man, like a nervous watchdog, must sit on the door-stone of his system, and bark incessantly at every thing that comes in sight along the highway. And when there is nothing to bark at, either he must growl and gnaw his reserved bones, or bark at the moon to keep up the sonorousness of his voice. And so, for fear that the sweetness of our temper may lead men to think we have no theologic zeal, we lift up an objurgation now and then—as much as to say, ‘Here we are, fierce and orthodox: ready to growl where we cannot bite.’
But the Examiner says: ‘The pastor of the Plymouth Church in Brooklyn has appeared upon Mr. Parker’s platform, to lend it his popularity.’ I neither borrowed nor lent. I went before an audience in the Tremont Temple, the place for the chief part of public lectures, to give my own ideas, and to exert whatever power I had by my thoughts and by my feelings upon such audience as pleased to come. If they were good men, they needed me less; if they were bad, they needed me more. But, either way, I was responsible for my own testimony, and for nothing more; and this was not lent to Mr. Parker, but to the audience. Yet, whenever Theodore Parker does what is right and noble, if it were possible for me to lend him any thing, I would do it gladly. I have nothing to lend, however, but good will, and that I never lend, but give free as God’s air!
But, it will be asked, will the public understand your position, and, however you may design it, will not the impression go abroad, either that you sympathize with infidel views, or are indifferent to them? No. The public are just the ones who will not misunderstand. There is formed and forming a moral judgment in the intelligent part of the community that popular Christianity needs more love in it. Men at large will be a great deal more apt to say that I have done a more exemplary Christian act, in daring to avow an ethical sympathy with Theodore Parker, between whom and myself there exists an irreconcilable theological difference, than if I had bombarded him for a whole year, and refused to touch his hand!
What a pitiful thing it is to see men who have the chance of saying what they believe, who do say it two hundred times a year, who write it, sing it, speak it, and fight it; who, by all their social affinities, by all their life-work, by all positive and most solemn testimonies, are placed beyond misconception,—always nervous lest they should sit down with somebody, or speak with somebody, or touch somebody, and so lose an immaculate reputation for soundness! Therefore men peep out from their systems as prisoners in jail peep out of iron-barred windows, but dare not come out, for fear some sharp sheriff of the Faith should arrest them!
If we held Theodore Parker’s views, we should not wait to have it inferred. Men would hear it from our lips, and hear it past all mistaking. And we are not going at our time of life to begin to watch over our ‘influence’; to cut and trim our sentences lest some mousing critic should pounce upon an infelicity, and draw upon us a suspicion. We have never sought influence, and we never shall seek it. Any that we have now, came to us because we went straight forward, doing whatever was right, and always believing that a loving heart was a better judge of what was right than a cold and accurate head. Neither is infallible. Both make mistakes. But the errors of the heart dissolve in the kindness of men’s natures as snow-flakes dissolve in warm-bosomed lakes, while the errors of cold intellect pierce and stick like arrows. If I cannot make my people understand my belief in fifty-two Sabbaths of the year, I shall not mend the matter by refusing to follow the generous sympathies of my heart.
No. The common people will not misunderstand. Nor will practical Christian ministers. They may differ from my judgment, but they will understand my deed. It is only those professed defenders of the faith, who, having erected suspicion into a Christian grace, practice slander as a Christian duty, that will be liable to mistake. And it makes no difference whether such men understand or not. These men are like aspen trees growing on rocks. In conceit and arrogance they are hard as granite, while they tremble all over like aspen leaves with perpetual fears and apprehensions of dismal mischief to come!
When Theodore Parker appears in his representative character as a theologian, I am as irreconcilably opposed to him as it is possible to be. The things that are dear to him, are cheerless and unspeakably solitary and mournful to me. The things which are the very centre of my life, the inspiration of my existence, the glory of my thought, and the strength of my ministry, are to him but very little. I differ from him in fact, in theory, in statement, in doctrine, in system, in hope and expectation, living or dying, laboring or resting,—in theology we are separate, and irreconcilable.
Could Theodore Parker worship my God? Christ Jesus is his name. All that there is of God to me is bound up in that name. A dim and shadowy effluence rises from Christ, and that I am taught to call the Father. A yet more tenuous and invisible film of thought arises, and that is the Holy Spirit. But neither are to me aught tangible, restful, accessible.
They are to be revealed to my knowledge hereafter, out now only to my faith. But Christ stands my manifest God. All that I know is of him, and in him. I put my soul into his arms, as, when I was born, my father put me into my mother’s arms. I draw all my life from him. I bear him in my thoughts hourly, at I humbly believe that be also bean me. For I do truly believe that we love each other!—I a speck, a particle, a nothing, only a mere beginning of something that is gloriously yet to be when the warmth of God’s bosom shall have been a summer for my growth;—and HE, the Wonderful, Counsellor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace!
And this Redeemer of the world, the Saviour of sinners, I accept, not only as my guide, my friend, my deliverer, but as an atoning God, who bore my sins upon the Cross, and delivered me from their penalty. And, since my life is spared to me by him, I give to him that life again. This hope of Christ is the staff of my ministry. First, highest, and in measure beyond all other things, I preach Jesus
<c05>
Christ. And all other topics are but arrows, shot out of this Divine bow. And this has been so for twenty years, eleven of which I hare labored in Brooklyn. And yet The Examiner is pleased to reproach me, as if, against the sweep of my life, and the current and testimony of my being, I had gone, to Boston to give ‘eclat to an infidel enterprise, because I gladly helped men who do not agree with me in theology to do deeds of mercy in which all good men are united!
What mart be the condition of the public mind, on the subject of Christian charity, when the Simple co-operation of a man, on a ground of common benevolence, is made to signify more than his whole regular life-work?
The disposition to find some common ground of kindness and benevolent work, with those from whom we are known to differ, will be a real preaching of the Gospel to tens of thousands who are unmoved by dogmas or doctrines. It is Love that the world wants. When Love goes abroad in the full worth of its nature, and endures and suffers, without reward except the sweetness of suffering borne for another, then men begin to see what is the heart and spirit of Christ, and to have some motions toward faith in him!
If tears could wash away from Mr. Parker’s eyes the hindrances, that he might behold Christ as I behold and adore him, I would shed them without reserve. If prayers could bring to him this vision of glory, beyond sight of philosophy, I would for him besiege the audience chamber of Heaven with .an endless procession of prayers, until another voice sounding forth from another light brighter than the noon day son, should cast down another blinded man, to be lifted up an apostle with inspired vision!
But since I may not hope so to prevail, I at least will carry him in my heart, I will cordially work with him when 1 can, and be heartily sorry when- ever I cannot.
While we yet write, word comes that Mr. Parker, broken down by over labor, seeks rest and restoration in a warmer clime. Should these lines reach his eye, let him know that one heart at least remembers his fidelity to man, in great public exigencies, when so many swerved, of whom we had a right to expect better things. God shield him from the ocean, the storm, the pestilence; and heal him of lurking disease. And there shall be one Christian who will daily speak his name to the heart of God in earnest prayer, that with health of body he may receive upon bin soul the greatest gift of God,— faith in Jesus Christ as the Divine Saviour of the world.

DR. CHEEVER AND HIS CHURCH.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: A statement has been copied into some of the city papers for the last day or two, taken from the New York correspondence of a Boston journal, to the effect that the Church of the Puritans is in a most dilapidated and forlorn condition, and that Dr. Cheever has resigned his pastoral charge.
Perhaps no better reply can be made to so false and malicious a calumny than a brief report of the occurrences of last evening at the house of Mr. D. Fairbank.
The occasion was a congregational social gathering, when the members of this disorganized and decaying church and society collected in sufficient numbers, in spite of the weather, to fill the large parlors to overflowing.
At about 8 1-2 the host, Mr. Fairbank, requested the assembly to come to order, as there was a little business to be transacted, and moved, that to have all things done decently and in order, Mr. Thomas S. Berry should take the chair, which he did, with a few appropriate remarks, saying that the Clerk of the Church would more fully explain the objects of the meeting.
The Clerk, Mr. Benj. K. Phelps, then addressed the Rev. Dr. Cheever as follows:
DR. CHEEVER: Permit us, your friends and parishioners, to tender you our hearty love and our warmest wishes for your prosperity and happiness during the year 1859. Oar relations during the year that has passed have been marked by events of no ordinary interest. Assailed by foes from without and disturbers from within, our trials have indeed been unusual and severe. But they have not dimmed our faith in God, nor shaken our confidence in each other. The chain which binds us in the sacred relations of pastor and people has been but brightened and strengthened by the efforts made to break it. We are here to-night to express our mutual confidence and love, and to thank God for the mercies, undeserved and precious, that have changed our greatest trials to our brightest blessings, and crowned the year with so much goodness.
We are here, too, Sir, to bid you persevere, as you always have done, in the fearless and full discharge of the duties of your sacred office. We rejoice that we have a pastor who preaches against our sins and the nation’s sins, and, God willing, we mean to keep him. Our hearts, our hopes, our sympathies and prayers, are with you. No faintheartedness on our; part shall dim the light of God’s word as it flashes from your lips. Freedom shall never be driven from your pulpit, nor from our pews. Our faith is strong, our courage firm. We have no fear for the future, if we can but keep near to God, and walk by the counsels of His Word. And, Sir, we hope and trust that this trial, which has been turned into so great a victory for us, has not been for our good alone. We believe that, by it, other churches will be led to cast off the fetters of a timid conservatism. Other pastors shall catch the inspiration of your example, until the world shall learn that God’s truth must not and cannot be restrained. For that end we pray. In that hope we praise God for your courage, and give thanks for your success.
Cheerfully and hopefully we look forward to a long continuance of our union here as pastor and people. We know that you are reported to have resigned your charge. That is not the first, nor will it be the last, slander aimed at you and us. We know how to estimate them.
And now, Sir, we hope that yon, who never have yielded to the assaults of your enemies, will so far submit to the persecution of your friends as to receive at their bands this purse of one thousand dollars, as a slight mark of our affection, confidence and esteem. Each dollar there is the material embodiment of an earnest wish for your continued welfare and happiness. Accept it, Sir, as the willing offering of our love, and may the God of Love bless you and us with the light of his presence and the joy of his salvation.
The clerk then delivered to Dr. Cheever the purse of one thousand dollars. The Doctor, on receiving it, was evidently overcome by his feelings. He briefly expressed his gratitude for the kindness and sympathy of his dear people, and after reading a few appropriate passages of Scripture, called upon the pastor of the Tabernacle Church.
Dr. Thompson spoke as follows: 
About eight years since, a commercial journal of this city advised the churches to ‘get rid of preachers of treason and rebellion by starring them out.’ It pointed particularly at four ministers who had openly taken ground against the Fugitive Slave Law as an inhuman statute. Let us see how the starvation policy has succeeded. Last week occurred the annual renting of pews in Plymouth Church, whose pastor was one of the denounced revolutionists and traitors. The round rental of his pews for the current year was $25,000—there is starvation for you. Since the journal aforesaid sounded its alarm, the Church of the Pilgrims, Brooklyn, whose pastor was named in the category, has paid off the whole of its original debt, and just before New Year, at the suggestion of its pastor, paid off a second debt of $17,000 contracted for repairing and beautifying the edifice. When last I raw the pastor of that church, he appeared to be in comfortable health. Of the Tabernacle church it becomes me to speak with modesty. I will only say that in the fourteen yean of my pastorate, I have never seen the church and congregation more compact, harmonious, hearty, vigorous, earnest, hopeful, promising, than they are to-day; beside always paying their minister’s salary ‘ promptly, they recently gave him a bag of this same yellow provender to keep him from starvation. And now you have entered into a conspiracy to give further aid and comfort to this prince of all treason! Somehow the breed of preachers who testify against the sins of the people is hard to kill. They won’t starve. Our brother here is a living witness. If you cut off all the corn and wine of the land, and empty or seal up the flesh-pots of Egypt, sonic widow will open her unfailing cruse, her replenished meal, and give sustenance to the prophet of the Lord. Or if he is driven to hide himself in the case of the Brook Cherith, the ravens bring bin daily bread. The Lord will keep alive whom he would use for his service, and he will use whoever serves him with the whole heart, and delivers all his truth.
I congratulate you, my brother, upon this hour of favor and rejoicing, and this manifestation of esteem and affection. Yon have had trials, and you know how sweet it is in adversity to find sympathy 
<c06>
and friendship. But it even more pleasant to enjoy prosperity without provoking envy and I am sure no one will envy you the favor of this evening, but all your brethren will rejoice that this munificent gift has come into your hands I say this not only of those most nearly allied to you in the ministry but of other, who honor you in the Master’s work. I have a special message to you whom we all esteem and love—who having trained a son to be bold and manly for the, truth, himself caught, the mantle of that dying son, and is now twice bold and earnest in his own work; I have just parted from him, and when I told him of my errand here, he said: ‘Tell Dr. Cheever that Dr Tyng Just as just as glad of it as if he had received the thousand dollars himself. Dr. Cheever is one of the few man who stand up to their conviction; he has had more kicks than coppers for it; I am glad that he is to have the coppers too.’
But do not imagine, my worthy brother, that this gift betokens exemption from trial. These anomalous temptations of riches coming suddenly across the lowly path of a minister may prove a severe ordeal. You may find it harder to carry that bag of gold than you would to march to the stake—at least in some moods in which I have seen you
Besides, 1 see danger looming in our path The Chairman has hinted at the salvation of the Union through your instrumentality. Now the highest Federal authority has assured us, in his message and his Pittsburgh letter, that the present dangers of the Union are two, Viz.: agitation upon the subject Slavery, and bribery and corruption in public men. And since we here see the agitator accepting the bribe, both evils joined in one, I shall expect, when I wake tomorrow morning, to see the union, if not the frost, dissolved.
I am relieved, however, on one point. That most veracious New York correspondent who peddles scraps of falsehood and slander to a Boston journal has announced that you bare resigned your charge It seems, however, that you are only called upon to be resigned to this new and peculiar dispensation of Providence which meets you with the opening year. May His blessing attend and crown the gift; and let us look to Him with reverence, gratitude and love.
After prayer by the Rev. Dr. Thompson the social festivities were resumed, and kept up till a late hour
New York, Jan. 11, 1859. SPECTATOR

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substance of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:—
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCUANT DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURECT, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, EARSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul and your feelings will tell you when. Even what no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparation of it, partly because the drug alone has not ail the virtue that is claimed for it, but more became many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary the diseases it is intended to cure. In order secure their complete eradication from the system the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO
LOWELL, MASS
Price, $1Per Bottle; six 35.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been founds to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and salt <illegible> Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-Coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also fall descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER’S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALE & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY. Portland;
J.N.MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where.6m May 7

The Free Convention
AT RUTLAND, VT.
SECOND EDITION.
JUST PUBLISHED, a second Edition of the fail Report of the Proceedings of the RUTLAND (FREE) CONVENTION, containing the discussion on The Bible, Marriage, Slavery, Woman’s Rights Spiritualism. Free Trade, Shakerism, Education, <w> &c., by S.B. Brittan. Andrew Jackson Davis H.C. Wright, Rev. A. D. Mayo, George Sennott. Joel Tiffany. Parker Pillsbury, Stephen S. Foster, Miles Grant, Frederick W. Evans, Mrs. F.D. Gage, Mrs E.L. Rose, Mrs. Mary F. Davis Mrs. Eliza Faraham, and many others.
The book contains nearly 200 pages, large octavo Price, in paper, 50 cents; in cloth, 67 cts. Postage, in paper, 10 cents; in cloth, 18 cents. The usual discount to the trade, for cash.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON,
Nov.19. tf 21 Cornhill, Boston
