THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 25. BOSTON, RIDAY, JUNE 22, 1860. WHOLE NO. 1539.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<C01>
MR. SUMNER'S POSITION DEFINED.
The question raised as to Mr. Sumner's politics has been settled definitively. The Republican Legislature of Massachusetts, which was called together many days ago to legislate on the cow disease, last night passed resolutions defining Mr. Sumner’s politics, and legislating him a Republican of the highest rank. This was done in order promptly to rebuke those presses in New York, which, by their silence, insinuations and open assertions, undertook to make people believe that the Senator from Massachusetts was not a Republican-that the Republicans, as a party, were no more responsible for what Mr. Sumner said in the Senate, than they were for what Mr. Garrison said in his Liberator. The General Court has decided this controversy; and decided it in such a way as not to leave doubts. The decision is much clearer than the ’protection' clause of the Lincoln platform. It has not only legislated that Mr. Sumner is a Republican in good standing, but it has endorsed his speech, which the N.Y. Times denounced, which the Tribune would not read, and which the Courier & Enquirer characterized as an ‘Abolition’ performance. The Times's denunciations were deserved, the Tribune's silence was an illustration of ’civil prudence,' but the Courier's characterization was unjust and improper. Mr. Sumner is no more an abolitionist than those who support him; and we have the authority of the Legislature for this. The accredited and hitherto trusted organs of the Republican party of New York may undertake to poo-poo Mr. Sumner and his late speech; but the Legislature of Massachusetts endorse him and it.-Boston Courier.
The endorsement of Mr. Sumner’s speech, by the Black Republican Legislature of Massachusetts, is a hold adoption of the rankest Abolition sentiments as the creed of the Black Republicans-the supporters of Lincoln and Hamlin. It accepts Garrison as the Black Republican prophet and leader, with all his diabolical heresies, and gives unequivocal assent to his avowal that ’the United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’ Sumner’s speech contained the highest eulogy of Garrison he could utter, and the Black Republicans of Massachusetts place their seal of approbation upon what Sumner said, by solemn Legislative resolves, which they direct to be sent to the officers and members of the National Legislature. Thus has Garrison Abolitionism been formally adopted as Black Republicanism, and what the Massachusetts Legislature has joined, let no man put asunder. Now we have Black Republicanism in its pure state without mask or disguise of any kind—it is admitted to be the twin brother of Garrison-Phillips Abolitionism, united by the strong ligament of solemn, formal, Legislative declaration. The people will clearly understand that it is not the ’rail-splitter' they are asked to call to power, but the Union-splitter with Abolitionism for his wedge.—Boston Post.
Mr. Sumner's speech has made a bad impression. There are none who do not regard it as ill-timed and ill-judged in every respect. Friends wish what he said had been unsaid, and deeply regret the want of policy in such a thrice-told tirade upon an impracticable theory, at a time when practicality is in special demand. It illustrates no less his total unfitness for public station than his utter inaptitude for political warfare. It will prejudice his party without benefiting his cause. Enemies are exasperated by it to an extreme degree, and the current of sympathy which circumstances had enlisted in his behalf, is changed to a virulent flow of hostility towards him personally, and towards the sectional sentiment which he assumes to represent. It unmasks Republicanism, and strips it of the guises and pretexts upon which its more wily and more prudent advocates depended for success. It is an insidious and faithless blow at the Constitution, and in its inevitable import is thoroughly disunion. In his invective at Faneuil Hall, against the Fugitive Slave Law, Mr. Sumner invoked the forcible resistance to that measure which virtually annulled and repealed the Stamp Act-a case in no sense analogous, because without any constitutional warrant whatever. ’But, mind you,' he added, ’I do not counsel violence.' So now, while ostensibly deprecating the <illegible> which threatens the permanence of our institutions, his speech is the essence and aggregation of doctrines which can have no realization but in the overthrow of the Constitution and the disruption of every national bond. The speech, in a word, has added rancor to the embittered feeling of the South; and the North, whether justly or not, will be held responsible for its repugnant and unfriendly sentiments. The Republican party will have something to do to counteract its effects upon their prospects in the approaching campaign.-Washington correspondent of the Boston Courier.
Charles Sumner’s recent speech is a curiosity that has no parallel, at least on our Senatorial record. Pedantry, egotism, fatuitous hypotheses, malice, rhapsody and verbosity stripe and emblazon it with disgusting conspicuousness. His chronic distemper, i.e., implacable hatred of South Carolina, poisons almost every paragraph, and struts throughout with ludicrous arrogance. The full reservoir of his vituperation is poured out upon South Carolina, the brave Palmetto State, enwreathed with the sacred memories of Fort Moultrie and Camden and Cowpens, and whose history towers proudly among the noblest. Well, indeed, may Massachusetts blush, as her memory reverts to the days when Webster and Choate honored the chairs now occupied by Sumner and Wilson. Well may she supplicate for that spirit that animated her then, and made her voice responsive to the mandates of the Constitution in the days of Thomas Jefferson, as she witnesses the debasement of her once brilliant history—as she allows her sentiments to be misunderstood by the polished misrepresentation of Sumner and the simulating demagoguism of Wilson. Well may she regret, as the peruses the malignant address of Senator Sumner, that her views are assumed to be reflected more by the frenzied declamation of the Abolitionistic theologian than the dispassionate, argumentative logic of the practical statesman; more by the fanaticism of the opinionated moralist than the self-immolating sprit of the true patriot. The speech of our Senatorial essayist makes apt the lines, that 
‘The ruling passion, be it what it will,
The ruling passion conquers reason still.'
-Boston Post.
No one can rise from a perusal of this speech without a contempt for the author and a conviction of his unfitness for his place. If Mr. Sumner were a religious man, he would be a persecutor. Instead, he has adopted a vague philosophy of his creed, and he proclaims a political crusade against brethren living under a common Constitution. Mr. Sumner will go to Europe for his reward. At this moment, the aristocracy and the oligarchies of the 
<c02>
Old World unite in an attempt to decry American institutions, and to expose this country to the distrust of the people. The reason is that we are draining their life-blood in emigration; and our gold, our grains, and our cotton place us in a position not only of independence but of dictation. Mr. Sumner's false testimony against us will be welcome in the Old World, and when the Senate adjourns he will go there, to reap his reward in the smiles and flatteries of noble lords and ladies, and the puffery of a pensioned press.-Albany Atlas and Argus.
Massachusetts, through her representatives, (says the Boston Post,) is making a deplorable exhibit in the Council Halls of the nation. Charles Francis Adams, in the House, has made a speech to show up ‘a stupendous oligarchy’ which the Constitution recognizes:—Charles Sumner, in the Senate, has set forth, in a thousand and one counts, what he calls ’The barbarism of slavery'; but for what purpose, it will puzzle the readers of these speeches to say, unless it be to keep up and infuse fresh life into that Bohon Upas to the country,—to its vast, interests and its patriotic instincts,—anti-slavery agitation. There seems to be practical point to neither speech. In relation to Sumner’s effort, the New York Times, (Republican,) has a criticism that is just and true:—
’From beginning to end, it was a vehement denunciation of slavery. The labor of four leisure years seems to have been devoted by Mr. Sumner to collecting every instance of cruelty, violence, passion, coarseness and vulgarity recorded as having happened within the slave States, or as having been committed by a slaveholder. Congressional debates, State codes, public meetings, newspaper files, and police reports, have been studied and collated with painful industry; statistical tables have been ransacked for evidence of relative decay and inferiority on the part of the slave States:—and the whole has been wrought into a speech, argumentative in form, but purely denunciatory in fact and intention, —and apparently designed merely to sting and exasperate the slaveholding portion of his audience and of the country to the highest pitch of human endurance.’ 

SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES F. ADAMS, OF MASSACHUSETTS,
ON THE SLAVERY QUESTION,
Delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, 
May 31, 1860. 
MR. CHAIRMAN—On the third day of the present session, a gentleman from Mississippi, distinguished for his perspicuity of statement, but in a spirit more defiant than to my untutored sense seemed to be called for by the occasion, used the following language:-
‘One gentleman said we had brought the negro in here, and that he must be put out. Let us see you do it!
Sir, there are twenty members from the South standing upon the floor by virtue of the negro, not as property, but as” persons not free.".".” Put them out, will you? Sir, your fathers and my fathers did not put the negro out. Thy put him, as an institution of, property, and of society, and of government, in the Constitution which you, gentlemen, swore to support.’
Of course, this putting in of the negro is a mere figure of speech. If he were veritably here in propria persona, I presume nobody would be more indignant than the gentleman himself. No. It is the master who stands here’ by virtue of the negro.’ And it is in this sense that the gentleman's remark is forcible; for in this sense it is true. We cannot put the negro out. This remark serves as a complete stopper to all the crimination and recrimination so freely indulged in between parties on the solemn point—which of the two first brought the negro in. Let them rest quiet hereafter on this topic. The negro was in before they began to talk about him at all. He will stay in, whether they choose to talk about him or not. He will grow in more and more, even while they are sleeping. To deprecate the misfortune is as idle as to complain of the force of the waters of Niagara. The subject is before us, and it is our duty to face the consideration of its proportions like statesmen, and not to imagine that, if we only shut our eyes to it, it is not there; still less to suppose that either lamentation or anger, agitation or silence, will in any respect materially change the nature of the great problem which North America is inevitably doomed to solve. From the decree of Divine Providence there is no appeal.
In one important particular, however, the gentleman from Mississippi has fallen considerably below the fact. He says that twenty members stand upon this floor’ by virtue of the negro.' If this were so, I should be glad to see and to identify them—to set them apart, and to define the precise limit of the political power which the Constitution has thus created. Even twenty members would constitute no insignificant element in the struggles which will always be carried on for the attainment of power in every free government. But the negro is dwarfed when he is measured only by the scale of twenty members. The real fact is, that’ by virtue of the negro,' ninety members stand upon this floor, each one of whom derives a sufficient proportion of his political vigor from that source to fasten him firmly as the pole, to the maintenance of a policy which will keep that negro before our eyes, whether we determine to look upon him or not. 
Neither does the proposition of the gentleman stop at this point. The negro does not remain stationary. He multiplies all day and every day. The sun never rises without finding him increased by hundreds. And the earth never completes its annual circle without adding enough almost to place another member on this floor. Time does nothing to diminish the magnitude of this experiment. On the contrary, it makes it only more and more colossal. One gentleman, at this session, in venturing to stretch his range of vision only a quarter of a century, thought he saw eight millions; whilst another, in a bolder spirit, doubling the period, imagined the presence of the existence of sixteen millions. Yet what are fifty years in the record of the existence of a great nation! I think I have seen, in the printed remarks of a distinguished member of the other House, a calm anticipation of the time when his section of country might contain a population of two hundred millions of negro slaves! How many members, I ask, will then stand upon this floor,’ by virtue of the negro’? The imagination recoils from the idea of a government, professing to be founded on human freedom, and yet containing within itself all the ramifications of a power capable of being as absolute as any oriental despotism. And yet it would be difficult to point out the error in this prognostication, always supposing the current of human life to run in its ordinary and established channels. ’Put the negro out, will you?’ asks the gentleman from Mississippi. For my part, I know not what other answer to give than his own words,’ Let us see you do it.’
<c03>
But the gentleman says that’ his fathers and my fathers put him in the Constitution, which we are sworn to support.’ So they did, in one sense, I am ready to admit. Let me consider for a moment the way they did it. Was it not by creating, through him, in the legislative department of the government, a steady and permanent political power, exceeding at this moment one-third of the gross number of its lower branch? I say nothing here of the other features of the system. But I only ask, if it had so happened that any of the other well-known interests of property, such as the agricultural, or the manufacturing, or the commercial, or the banking interest, had secured anything bordering upon a similar influence in the public councils, would it not naturally have awakened some attention, and excited some uneasiness? How can we measure the power of three or four, of twenty, or of two hundred millions of human beings held in slavery,’ by virtue of whom, not as property, but as persons not free,’ to use the gentleman's phrase, one section already controls more than a third of the popular branch, nearly one-half of the aristocratic branch of the Legislature, more than half of the Cabinet officers in the executive department, and five out of nine of the judges of the supreme judicial tribunal? 
Apportion the increase of population, according to the Constitution, as you may; concede to the free regions all advantage in relative growth that you can, the stern fact yet remains of the constant presence of an influence, animated by one will, and looking to one purpose—that is, the preservation of its claims, both to the pecuniary and the political advantages it holds’ by virtue of the negro.’ Even if considered in the secondary light of a commercial corporation, we have been told this session, by a distinguished member from Alabama, that the joint stock of capital, even now, amounts to the enormous sum of $3,500,000,000; and, unlike most other corporations, this capital is not only susceptible of constant enlargement, but is constantly enlarged. In comparison with this, what was the Bank of the United States? What is the Bank of England? Nay, what has been the East India Company? The complaint was made of the latter that its members controlled a few venal boroughs in Parliament. But here the shareholders sit constantly ‘by virtue’ of their stock, in both Houses of Congress, in the Cabinet of the executive, and on the bench of the highest judicial court. They help make, they execute, and they expound the laws of the land. For my part, I must say that I have observed nothing in the pages of history so skillfully adapted to the establishment of a stupendous oligarchy as this interlacing of the interests of a single species of what is denominated property, with all the ramifications of the political agencies in a State.
Truly, then, has the gentleman said, we cannot put the negro out, whom his fathers and our fathers Consented to put into the Constitution. I, for one, add very frankly, I do not seek to put him out. Whatever benefit may have been obtained by him and his friends, from a fair construction of the instrument, I have no intention to cut off. But, on the other hand, it should be observed that no advantage such as they enjoy can ever be long used without the experience of a corresponding drawback. It is of the nature of power, when concentrated overmuch, to produce the necessity of an equally great force to balance it. In a free Government, this is particularly true. No man, or set of men, can hope to direct and control it a great while, without stirring up fears that they may abuse their privileges, to the injury of their fellows. Now, if it be once conceded that such a power has been erected under the present Constitution,’ by virtue of the negro,’ it is not necessary to show proof of any past abuse of it, to justify measures of precaution against such abuse in the future. We recognize the truth of the old maxim, that ‘eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,’ as well as of that other one, which in my youth I remember to have been familiarly used in quarters in which it seems to me that I seldom hear it now-a-days, ‘Power is ever stealing from the many to the few.’ I say, then, that even it the control which has been gained’ by virtue of the negro,’ could be shown to have been exercised for the benefit of all classes of people in the United States alike; if it could be proved, to have done nothing to undermine the pillars of our Temple of Liberty, still, the very fact that it might do the utmost possible injury at some unguarded moment, and that nothing but its own will stands in the way to prevent it, would be ample justification for an immediate resort to the most energetic measures of association to ward off the peril.
There is no need, then, of further explaining the reasons for the rise of the Republican party. We have indeed been told that it is a standing menace to our brethren of the slaveholding States, and that nothing will quiet them but its immediate dissolution. But apart from the singular absence of acquaintance with the philosophy of party politics in a free country which such a demand” betrays, I would respectfully ask on what grounds it can be proposed, so long as the policy which it denounces remains purely defensive? No sane man will deny that the negro is multiplying with rapidity; that by virtue of this increase, the pecuniary interests involved in the continuance of his present condition are steadily accumulating; that a coextensive increase of political power is going on in this hall, as in the other branches of the government, and that the whole character and tendency of the influence thus generated is unpropitious to the maintenance of our notions of freedom. Is it to be pretended, then, that we, whose rights are liable to be deeply affected by the preponderance in the public councils of such a power, have no right to associate and organize with the intent to guard against its bad effects? Such a notion was not entertained when the case of a comparatively trifling moneyed corporation was in question, nor when the supposed ascendancy of insignificant manufacturing interests was thought to be alarming. How, then, can it be advanced in the face of a combination of wealth and political power, in comparison with which the bank and the tariff were but as atoms in the creation?
But I now go one step further, and declare that this proceeding is not only justifiable as a precaution against the possibility of an abuse of power, but that it is indispensably necessary to the actual salvation of our free institutions. Nobody is yet hardy enough to deny that the idea of liberty, as the guardian and protectress of the individual citizen against all assaults of mere arbitrary power, has been, since the days of the Revolution, the darling idol in the American mind.’ Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,’ was a maxim which, nowhere more than in the Ancient Dominion, nerved the arms of the fathers to the struggle that placed us here in this Hall, the Representatives of a free people. It found its expression in the celebrated. Act of Union for the common defense, proclaimed to the world in language too familiar to need quotation. Nobody at the time misunderstood its meaning. Nobody undervalued the heroism which made the cause of the oppressed colonist the cause of all mankind. Half a century passed away, and not one of the countless number of statesmen and
<c04>
orators who, each in his turn, joined to swell the note of exultation in the proud position attained by his country as the champion of that cause, ever thought to cast a doubt upon the universality of the grand doctrine which the Declaration of Independence had enunciated. It was reserved to the men of the present day to discover a new version which, in limiting its application to a special and to a special and favored class, at one stroke dwarfs the stature of the revolutionary patriots, and sinks the noblest contest in history down to the level of the late encounter of pugilism, for the possession of a belt, on the other side of the water. If their view of it be the right one, then was the whole of the great controversy a deliberate fraud; then has the world been cheated by false pretenses, and our fathers were rogues who deserved to suffer the penalties of the law for rebellion against the constituted authorities of the mother country, instead of earning the glorious meed of the patriot's crown.
The cardinal principle of the Revolution, that which makes a real advance in the progress of political institutions, is that the individual man, whether in or out of the social organization, whilst doing no wrong, has certain rights which his fellow, man all over the globe is bound to respect. The general establishment of this maxim in the practice of the nations of the world is, or ought to be, the mission of America during the present century of her growth. In 1776 there was a bright prospect, of its speedy accomplishment. For some years it spread both at home and abroad; for it is not to be denied that the effect of her instruction has been and is still felt, not here alone, but in every quarter of the world. Nobody can have failed to observe the progress that has been since made in the recognition of popular rights in every civilized country down to the present time. It would doubtless have been still more rapid, but for the astonishing fact that the very people which was the first to enunciate the great truth has been slowly but steadily withdrawing itself from all sympathy with the prosecution of it. Imperceptibly at first, but, very distinctly within a short time, this reaction has gone on until the term of this Administration, when the respective representatives before the world of this great nation have united in one grand counter-declaration, and that is, that there are men all over the world whose rights no white man is, bound to respect. 
It does indeed appear as if this grave and solemn decree of Judges, of Presidents, of Senators, and Representatives in a free country, did fly in the face of the Declaration of Independence, long acknowledged among us as undoubted authority for political doctrine. But we are now given to understand, in these high quarters, that there is no difficulty in reconciling this apparent contradiction. The way of it is this: the language of the Declaration runs thus:-
‘We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.’
The new version is, that Mr. Jefferson, when he wrote the words all men,’ clearly intended only all white men. But here is an obstacle at the thresh-hold of this argument. Of course, if this be the construction, the necessary implication is that the rest of mankind are not endowed with the same inalienable rights which the Creator bestowed on whites. Hence the latter are justified in regarding the former as inferior creatures, whom they may subject to their will if they can. I understand this consequence to be distinctly admitted by the friends of the new view. Now, the fact is well known that Mr. Jefferson owed his position, as the draftsman of that celebrated paper, mainly to his reputation as a writer capable of expressing his meaning with distinctness and force. But if this construction of the passage be true, what are we to think of his skill, when he said that’ all men are created equal,’ instead of declaring what the new version means, and that is, that’ all men are not created equal;’ and hence that the rights which he pronounces inalienable in all, are in fact alienable in a great majority of the human race, at the will and pleasure of a minority who happen to be created with pale faces? Surely it is pretty hard to believe that so lucid a writer could, with his eyes open, have fallen into such a delusion as to mean, in a public paper which he regarded as the crowning merit of his life, the precise reverse of what he actually said. Still more difficult is it to imagine that, though he lived for half a century afterward in the midst of discussions and disputes particularly calculated to keep alive his recollection of what he did mean, he should never have whispered to any living soul, either privately or publicly, a single doubt of his having been correctly understood. He well knew the sense which his cotemporaries universally attached to his words. If he had any other in his mind, why did he not disclose it?
Fortunately for the reputation of the distinguished son of Virginia, whose noblest work I, a son of Massachusetts, am proud to defend against the cruel assaults of citizens of his own State, there is other evidence in the context of this immortal paper conclusively to prove that he meant exactly what he said, and that the new version is an after thought of a later age. So far from narrowing his application of the words ‘all men’ to white men only, as having inalienable rights to life and liberty, he goes on, in the original draft, to make a solemn charge against the King of Great Britain; for what, pray? Why, to use his own language, ’because he has waged cruel war against human nature itself, violating its most sacred rights of life and liberty in the persons of a distant people.’
It appears, then, by this, that Mr. Jefferson thought it was human nature itself that possessed these most sacred rights which he denominates inalienable, and not the small portion of it included in the white population. Ay, and that is not all, either. Who are the’ persons of a distant people’; to whom he refers as deprived of these most sacred rights under this cruel tyranny? They are the very blacks of the African race whom the King had torn from their homes, and made slaves to the colonists of America. They are the very people of whom we are now told by the highest court, who would seem by their argument completely to justify that monarch, that they’ have no rights which a white man is bound to respect.’ And, singularly enough, as if to mark, beyond the possibility of the most arrant fatuity to misconceive it, Mr. Jefferson's intent, in charging the sovereign with the crime of his determination to keep open a market where men should be bought and sold, he takes pains, in the original manuscript, with his own hand, to write the word’ MEN’ in capital letters; the only word so written, it should be observed, in the whole body of the document. I would humbly submit, then, upon this evidence, that if any narrower application is to be made of the words ’all men,’ than that which they naturally bear, a much stronger argument could be made from the context in favor of limiting it to all black men of the African can race, than in defense of the attempt to twist it exclusively for the benefit of the whites. But when Mr. Jefferson appeals to the comprehensive term of ‘human nature,’ as possessing these rights, it is
<c05>
plain enough that he, at least, was for covering all of every race equally under the shelter of this beneficent national proclamation.
But the question now is not what Mr. Jefferson or his compeers intended. The fact is beyond contradiction, that the judiciary and the executive head of the Federal government have practically adopted the opposite construction, and a very large number of people are prepared to confirm it. The reason for this remarkable revolution of opinion leads us at once to the source of our present divisions. Passing over all secondary disputes about Wilmot Provisos or Squatter Sovereignty, about Fugitive Slave laws or protection of the rights of so-called property, as the mere incidents, let us look the real issue calmly in the face. The construction put upon the Declaration of Independence for the first half century of our career is favorable to the liberty of human nature throughout the world. The construction now put upon the same language is designed to overthrow it, by setting up one portion of mankind so far above another as to justify the former in compelling the latter to perpetual subjection to its will. Hence, though it may be affirmed that the white race are created equal, and possessed of certain inalienable rights, this affirmation must be understood as made by themselves, exclusively for their own benefit, and with the deliberate intent to deny to every other class on earth any privilege which shall avail them against a successful attempt to enslave them, whether by force or fraud. If it be once assumed by the white, that the black man of Africa has no rights which he is bound to respect, by parity of reasoning, it inevitably follows that a resort to the same processes of violence and crime which brought him to this mournful condition may be had by him in his turn, wherever he can get the power, toward the white. And the same remark will apply to any and every other race of mankind which chooses to set it itself up as the arbiter of the rights of the creation. There is then, by this theory, no such thing on earth as liberty guaranteed to any one. This decision strips us all alike of any rights but such as we may maintain by our own right arms. It is the American sanctification of the sovereignty of force, under the old argument of prescription. It is the tyrant’s plea of necessity, varnished over with the thin gilding of modern politico-judicial Democracy.
If I am right in my deductions, then the case stands thus at this moment; a great and powerful combination in the United States has been able so far to control political opinion as to carry the Government clean away from the acknowledgment of the soundness of doctrines of liberty universally recognized in the first half century of our career; and, furthermore, to make that Government justify and defend, for certain purposes, a law founded originally on nothing but fraud and force. Surely, if this be admitted, it can be no further cause of surprise that those among the people who still remain attached to the old and cherished principles of the better days of the Republic, who yet believe that the mission of the Government is to promote the law of liberty, and to resist oppression, and who mean to make it such, if honest efforts will effect it, should associate in an organization having for its object the restoration of the ancient and true idea, and the overthrow of the false one. If anything is to be done with effect, it is high time to set about it. Nearly all the avenues to power are guarded by opponents. The strongest political organization known in our history has been made subservient to its will. Nothing will avail against the omnipotence of the power acquired’ by virtue of the negro,’ as I have already described it, but union, energy, and ceaseless vigilance in resisting its further progress. Here stand in antagonism once more the old enemies— liberty and authority. Here is renewed in a modified shape the ‘irrepressible conflict’ that is as ancient, at least, as the days when Moses struck the Egyptian. Are we, then, to be told that the organization must be dissolved, because it is a standing menace to the slaveholding States? What! the doctrines of liberty a menace to the slave States! Your fathers did not think so, when they proclaimed theme years ago; and we are doing no more now, than your fathers did then! 
It must be admitted that in this, as in all sharp contests for the right, the respective antagonists often rush into extremes of opinion, mix up their feelings with their reasoning, and perpetually criminate each other as guilty of aggressions, just as if either side could resist the force of the circumstances that surround them. No doubt many errors have been, are, and will be, committed on both sides, which calm and judicious patriots are ready to deplore. They, in the main, spring from the nature of a popular government, which breeds classes of men whose disposition it is to distinguish themselves by stimulating the prevailing passion of the moment. No where is this more likely to be the case than in the treatment of the slave question, in which the fears for the safety of a pecuniary interest greatly aggravate the customary irritation attending purely political conflicts. 
This is one reason why changes in the doctrines of the slaveholding party from time to time have so rapidly taken place. The most material of these, and that which made the present position of parties inevitable, happened about thirty years ago, when the old revolutionary dogma, that slavery was an evil imposed upon one portion of the country, against its will, which it tolerated only from the necessity of the case, gave place to the modern dictum that slavery was a benefit to the African, and a positive blessing to the master, and that the social system evolved from this relation could justly boast of being the highest type of civilization. 
I have no manner of doubt that this novel, and, to me, shocking doctrine, always has been and is yet, repudiated by many of the wisest and the best of the citizens of the slaveholding States, just as it was rejected by Washington and Jefferson, by Madison and Mason (Virginia can boast of no greater names,) in the early, and by Henry Clay in the later days of the Republic. But they find themselves powerless against the progress of an idea that seems to relieve people from the necessity of excusing a wrong which they are at all events determined to commit. It is much easier to turn the doubtful act into a positive merit, and claim credit as a virtue for steady perseverance in what they desire to do.
Be this as it may, it is this change which has brought the country into its present difficult situation; for just so long as slavery was conceded to be an evil in the social system, just so long was it unreasonable to demand its establishment in regions where it had never existed. The law of liberty as an acknowledged blessing was then the rule, and slavery was only tolerated as an exception, from the necessity of the case, in countries from which it could not be safely eradicated. But so soon as this theory was exploded, and the notion that slavery was a positive advantage, not only to both master and slave but to all the members of a civilized community, became prevalent in its place, another set of duties immediately devolved upon the conscientious believers of the new faith. 
The right to expand became no less clear than the obligation grew imperative. The question no longer of remains confined within the borders of actual slave holding States. It spreads itself abroad, not mere
<C06>
ly over the plains yet untrodden by the foot of the settler, but into long-established and populous communities which do not yet see the light of conviction this point. If, indeed, the proposition be once admitted as sound, I cannot, for my part, understand why it does not legitimately follow that every free State in the Union—nay, every free State in the world-is not doing itself a positive injury by refusing to harbor the blessed institution in its boson. It slavery be good in itself, why not diffuse it every where? 
Here, then, we see the practical consequence of abandonment of the fundamental principles of the Declaration of Independence; and here we see absolute necessity for the establishment of a great associated organization which shall be potent enough to overthrow this false doctrine, and to resist every practical form of its development. I say it not in any spirit of menace or of unkindness to those who disagree with me on this matter, but because I feel it to he a solemn duty incumbent upon as a Representative of a State pledged by all its past history to maintain the cause of freedom and free institutions. There can be no compromise whatever on this issue. 
So long as it remains undetermined—and that is equivalent to saying so long as the people of these states remain themselves free—so long an organized party will continue in the field, having for its main object the restoration, as a cardinal principle of the Federal Government, of the ancient doctrine of the inalienable rights of man. If this be a standing menace to the people of the slaveholding States, so be it. We may regret that they so regard it, and love them too, but we must love liberty more. So said Brutus and Cassius in their hour of peril, to Mark Antony. when he was deserting the sacred cause they had sworn to support: ’Vocemus te ad nulles inimicitias; sed tamen pluris nostrum Iibertatem quum tuam amicitiam astimemus.'
The party thus associated has no purposes which seeks to conceal. It harbors no hostile designs against the rights of any of the States. Its leading idea is REFORM, total and fundamental, in the spirit which the government has of late years been administered—reform, also, in the details, which appear of late to have been suffered to run into many grave abuses. It is not to be concealed that all over the country there is a well-defined impression that, for the sake of retaining power, corruption has been tolerated, if not actively encouraged, in high places and the various efforts at investigation made within a few years, so far from removing that uneasiness, have gone far to increase it. Without undertaking to judge of the truth or the error at the bottom of feeling, I do yet maintain that, for the honor of the country, and of all who may be concerned in the administration of the government, there is an overruling necessity for a complete change of the persons now responsible for its direction. 
The reform must be wide enough to restore freedom as the guide of the Federal policy, and to a se aside the new idol which has usurped her throne. It must be deep enough to reinstate honesty above suspicion in the dispensation of the pecuniary contracts incident to the possession of great place. If the execution of such a policy as this constitutes good ground for a resort to extreme measures of resistance by any portion of the people of these States, then is there no hope of further harmony in America; for the evils which would ensue to us, if we were deterred from action by such considerations, would be far more fatal to the public peace and prosperity, in the ultimate result, than any which could grow out of perseverance against unreasonable demands. Once more may the words of the great Roman patriots be appealed to:’ Nulla enim minantis auctoritas apud liberos est.'
And the remedy is secession, or, in plainer words, a dissolution of the Union, and a disruption of the Constitution! So we are told. In a word, the people who defy us to put the negro out of this hall; who claim that, by virtue of that negro, twenty of their number stand on this floor; who hold a majority of the seats upon the bench of the Supreme Court; who have, time out of mind, wielded in their own favor the executive influence of the Federal Government, imagine that they are about better their condition by abandoning all these enormous privileges, and by setting up another government, without any similar advantages, among the selves. Perhaps there might be some plausibility in this idea, if you could fence yourselves all around with a high wall, and proclaim a complete non-intercourse with the world outside. 
But the day for these fancies is passing off, even with the Chinese and the Japanese, who have held to them the longest. Your slaves will not be made safer at home, or less aggressive when abroad, by the withdrawal of the power of reclamation; neither will your internal condition be less an object of anxiety to your neighbors than it is now. The mere fact of the existence or the non-existence of a common bond of government may modify, but it cannot materially change the conditions of your great social problem. If the Constitution were expunged by agreement to-morrow, its difficulties might, indeed, be aggravated, but none would be removed. 
Whatever we may choose to think or say of one another, either for good or evil, a higher Power above us has raised up on this continent a people who, whether united or divided, whether praying or cursing, whether loving or fighting, are destined to remain, in all the essential features of religion, guage, thought, feeling, habits, customs and manners, one and the same. Whatever seriously touches the condition of one portion of us, does and will have its effect upon the rest. In spite of all efforts to the contrary, there is and will be a common sympathy having its root in that universal principle, a simple allusion to which by a great dramatist of antiquity is said to have instantaneously elicited a burst of enthusiasm from the thousands who crowed the Roman theatre—' I am a man; nothing that touches men can fail to move me.' 
Do you say that you can and will resist all this, that you will shut yourselves up at hone, and see no more of the light of reason than is consistent with the preservation of what you are pleased to denominate your property; then try it a while if you are bent on the experiment. But permit me to predict, at this time, that it will ignominiously fail. You cannot separate from us, unless you blot from your memory all the traces of a common descent, a common literature, social affinities cemented by the dearest ties, and of a common faith. 
The violent men, who are counseling this extreme policy, and in whom you now put your trust, will not retain their hold upon your confidence when you open your eyes to the consequences of their work, and to the causes which they assign in their justification. It may then be too late entirely to repair the damage; but, whether late or early, you shall not have it to say that there was not at least one voice however humble, among those of your fancied opponents, which did not warn you of the folly of throwing off friends and fellow-citizens, only because they preferred to follow the doctrines taught by your and their fathers, rather than to desert them in your company. Choose ye where you will go; for us, we will adhere to the ancient faith.
The most marked attention was paid to the delivery of this speech, throughout, by the House.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ’a <illegible> with death, and an agreement with hell.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FAREWELL WORDS OF THEODORE PARKER has seen 'the last of earth,' and ascended
to a higher and nobler sphere of existence, the following concluding passages
(full of thrilling pathos and deep serenity) from his 'Experience as a Minister,' contained in Letter from him to his Society, will be read at this time with special interest:-
To compose sermons, and preach them to multitudes of men of one sort but many conditions, thereto setting forth the great Truths of Absolute Religion, and applying them to the various events of this wondrous human life, trying to make the Constitution of the Universe the Common Law of men, illustrating my thought with all that I can gather from the World of Matter, its use and beauty both, and from the World of Man, from human labors, sorrows, joys, and everlasting hopes,-this has been my great delight. Your pulpit has been my joy and my throne. Though Press and State, Market and Meeting-House, have been hostile to us, YOU have yet given me the largest Protestant audience in America, save that which Orthodox Mr. Beecher, who breaks with the logic tradition of the New England Church, inspires with his deep emotional nature, so devout and so humane, and charms with his poetic eloquence, that is akin to both the sweet briar and the rose, and all the beauty which springs up wild amid New England hills, and to the loveliness of common life; I have given you my sermons in return, at once my labor and delight. My Life is in them, and all my character, its good and ill, thereby you know me better than I, perhaps, myself,-for a man's words and his face when excited in sermon and in prayer tell all he is, the reflection of what he has done. Sermons are never out of my mind; and when sickness brings on me the consciousness that I have nought to do, its most painful part, still, by long habit all things will take this form; and the gorgeous vegetation of the Tropics, their fiery skies so brilliant all the day, and starlit too with such exceeding beauty all the night; the glittering fishes in the market, as many-colored as a gardener's show, these Josephs of the sea; the silent pelicans, flying forth at morning and back again at night; the strange, fantastic trees, the dry pods rattling their historic bones all day, while the new bloom comes fragrant out beside, a noiseless prophecy; the ducks rejoicing in the long-expected rain; a negro on an ambling pad; the slender legged, half-naked negro children in the street, playing their languid games, or oftener screaming neath their mother's blows, amid black swine, hens and uncounted dogs; the never-ceasing clack of women's tongues, more shrewd than female in their shrill violence; the unceasing, multifarious kindness of our hostess; and, over towering all, the self-sufficient, West India Creole pride, alike contemptuous of toil, and ignorant and impotent of thought, all these common things turn into poetry as I look on or am compelled to hear, and then transfigure into sermons, which come also spontaneously by night, and give themselves to me, and even in my sleep say they are meant for you. Shall they ever be more than the walking of 
'A sick man in his sleep,
Three paces, and then faltering'? 
The doctors cannot tell; I also know not, but hope and strive to live a little longer, that I may work much more. Oh, that the truths of Absolute Religion, which Human Nature demands, and offers, too, from the Infinitely Perfect God who dwells therein, while He transcends the Universe, Oh, that these were an Idea enlightening all men's minds, a Feeling in their hearts, and Action in their outward life! Oh, that America's two and thirty thousand ministers, Hebrew, Christian, Mormon, knew these truths, and to mankind preached Piety and Morality, and that Theology which is the Science of God and his two-fold
Universe, and forgot their mythologic and misguiding dreams! Then what a New World were ours! Sure I would gladly live to work for this.
I may recover entirely, and stand before you full of brown health, equal to the manifold labors of that position, live to the long period of some of my fathers, and at last die naturally of old age. This to me seems most desirable, though certainly not most probable.
Or, I may so far recover, that I shall falter on a score of years or so, one eye on my work, the other on my body, which refuses to do it, and so urge my weak and balky horse along a miry, broken road. If this be so, then, in some still, little rural nook, in sight of town, but not too nigh, I may finish some of the in many things I have begun, and left for the afternoon or evening of my day; and yet, also, from time to time, meet you again, and, with words of lofty
cheer, look on the inspiring face of a great congregation. With this I should be well content; once it was the ideal of my hope. 
In either of these cases. I see how the time of this illness, and the discipline alike of disappointment and recovery, would furnish me new power. Several times in my life has it happened that I have met with what seemed worse than death, and, in short-sighted folly, I said, 'Oh, that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest!' VetYet my grifs all turned into blessings; the joyous seed I planted came up Discipline, and I wished to tear it from the ground; but it flowered fair, and bore a sweeter, sounder fruit than I expected from what I set in earth. As I look over my life, I find no disappointment and no sorrow. I could afford to lose; the cloudy morning has turned out the fairer day; the wounds of my enemies have done me good. So wondrous is this Human Life, not ruled by Fate, but Providence, which is Wisdom married unto Love, each infinite! What has been, may be. If I recover wholly, or but in part, I see new sources of power beside these waters of affliction I have stooped at; I shall not think I have gone through 'the Valley of 'Baca' in vain, nor begrudge the time that I have lingered there, seeming idle: rainy days also help seed the ground. One thing I am sure of: I have learned the wealth and power of the grateful, generous feeling of men, as I knew them not before, nor hoped on earth to find so rich. High as I have thought of Human Nature, I had not quite done justice to the present growth of these beautiful faculties. Here and now, as so oft before, I have found more treasure than I dreamed lay hidden where I looked. 
But if neither of these hopes becomes a fact, if the silver cord part soon above the lountain, and the golden bowl be broke, let not us complain; a new bowl, and a stronger cord, shall serve the Well of Life for you. Though quite aware how probable this seems, believe me, I have not yet had a single hour of sadness; trust me, (I shall not. True, it is not pleasant to leave the plough broken in the furrow just begun, while the seed-corn smiles in the open sack, impatient to be sown, and the whole field promises such liberal return. To say Farewell to the thousands I have been wont to preach to, and pray with, now joyous, and tearful now,-it has its bitterness to one not eighty-four, but forty-eight. To undo the natural ties more intimately knit of long-continued friendship and of love,-this is the bitter part. But if it be my lot, let not you nor me complain. Death comes to none except to bring a blessing: it is to in misfortune to lay aside these well-loved weeds of earth, and be immortal. To YOU, as a Congregation, my loss may be easily supplied; and to me it is an added consolation to know that, however long and tenderly remembered, I should not long be missed; some other will come in my place, perhaps without my defects, possessed of nobler gifts, and certainly not hindered by the ecclesiastical and social hostility which needs must oppose a man who has lived and wrought as I. It will not always be unpopular justly to seek the welfare of all men. Let us rejoice that others may easily reap golden corn where we have but scared the wild beasts away, or hewn down the savage woods, burning them with dangerous fire, and make the rich, rough ground smooth for culture. It was with grimmer fight, with sourer sweat, and blacker smoke, and redder fire, that the fields were cleared where you and I now win a sweet and easy bread. 
What more shall I say to sweeten words of fare well, which must have a bitter tastily If I have taught you any great Religious Truth, or roused therewith Emotions that are good, apply them to your life, however humble or however high and wide; convert them into Deeds, that your superior Religion may appear in your superior Industry, your Justice and your Charity, coming out in your housekeeping, and all manner of work. So when your
'Course
Is run, some faithful eulogist may say.
He sought not praise, and praise did overlook
His unobtrusive merit; but his life, 
Sweet to himself, was exercised in Good, 
That shall survive his name and memory.' 
Let not fondness for me, now heightened by my illness, and my absence too, blind your eyes to errors
<c02>
which may be in my doctrine, which must be in my life; I am content to serve by warning, where I cannot guide by example. Mortal, or entered on Immortal Life, still let me be your Minister, to serve, never your Master, to hinder and command. Do not stop where I could go no further, for, after so long teaching, I feel that I have just begun to learn, begun my work. ' No man can feed us al
ways;' welcome, then, each wiser guide who points you out a better way. On earth, I shall not cease to be thankful for your Patience, which has borne with me so much and long: for your Sympathy, nearest when needed most, and the examples of noble Christian Life, which I have found in some of you, 
'To whom is given 
The joy that mixes man with Heaven:
Who, rowing hard against the stream,
See distant gates of Eden gleam,
And never dream it is a dream;
But hear, by secret transport led,
Even in the channels of the dead,
The murmur of the Fountain-head: 
Who will accomplish High Desire,
Bear and forbear, and never tire,-
Like Stephen, an unquenched fire,
As looking upward, full of grace.,
He prayed, and from a happy place 
God's glory smote him on the face!'
Here they add to my joy; perhaps their remembrance will add to my delight in Heaven.
May you be faithful to your own Souls; train up your Sons and Daughters to lofty character, most fit for humble duty; and to far cathedral heights of excellence, build up the Being that you are, with Feelings, Thoughts and Actions, that become 'a glorious Human Creature,' by greatly doing the common work of life, heedful of all the Charities, which are twice blest, both by their gifts and their forgiveness too. And the Infinite Perfection, the Cause and Providence of all that is, the Absolute Love, transcending the time and space it fills, OUR FATHER, and our MOTHER too, will bless you each beyond your prayer, forever and forever. Bodily absent, though present still with you by the Immortal Part, so hopes and prays 
Your Minister and Friend,
THEODORE PARKER.
FREDERICKSTED, West-End, Santa Cruz, April 19,1859.
DEATH OF THEODORE PARKER-COM-
MEMOEATIVE MEETING AT MUSIC
HALL, SUNDAY, JUNE 17, 1860.
SPEECH OF CHARLES M. ELLIS, ESQ. 
Friends: I must speak; but least of that of which my heart is full. I knew Mr. Parker well from the time of his going to West Roxbury. In his last letter to me he writes: 'There has never ' been a day since I left home that 1 have not often thought of your father and his dear ones. He is one of my oldest friends. His is the last house I was ever in at home, except my own.' Again that trembling hand wrote; but the mortal eye of that friend, the first to welcome him there and here, was not to read the written words. Would that I could venture to try to pay tribute due to the friendship of so many years. But the day of his first illness, and that of his death, the very hymn he chose, which we have just sung, open such recent sorrows and quick associations, that I must turn away from old memories of his house at Spring street, over which the pines were always whispering; his library there, where that great soul was trained, mastering tools where with to do the work of the world, and the fair "garden 
on which it looked; of his love for all without, within; of the village church, with its silent finger and its little band; the Sabbath School; of Brook Farm, where we lived-its woods and fields, and stream of gold and gems, dearer and fairer in the pictures which the child, the boy daguerreotypes, than the poet or 
romancer can make them; of the old home-of the strolls there; of the free communion with men of the past and the present there opened; and from later and fresher things, for they would lead to that of which I could not speak. 
I remember, even before that, how his stalwart frame swept along the avenues of Divinity Hall. I remember the manner of his early preaching. In that was shown what I always thought was the chief element of his character and source of his power. He was often overcome by emotion; his utterance choked; tears flowed; his frame shook. It was beyond what was natural, even at that age. He has told us that ' he preached only what he had himself experienced.' Gigantic as his developed intellect became-great as were the treasures of learning he diffused-his greatest power was the native impulse of his soul-his affectional nature. No mind, no learning could express it. Though to the world they seemed solid as the ground, they only floated on its bosom. 
Born on soil sacred to freedom-of stock culled in England, and trained for two centuries in the best physical and moral culture of the world-himself reared in schools not the costliest, but the best-taught the love of labor, self-reliance, absolute reverence for God and conscience-he surprised the world by the
intellect that embraced, the will that moved it. But these only best with the pulses of his mighty heart. I do not wish to vindicate all. But as the dust of earth shall fall, this element will justify much that is questioned now. He did not believe in calling black, white. Let time and truth judge his sayings. What he spoke in love will live. Do you not remember how, in his discourse on Adams-when the building shook, and his voice was silenced as the ice and snow fell like an earthquake before the sun of Spring-he wished it so with the character he was discussing-with what joy he reviewed the glorious labors of the long Indian summer of that life, the rapture with which he hailed its closing act, summed up in that Saxon sentence, 'the great loud No of an old man going home to his God'? Is the wail of a true heart over powers perverted-the woe of him who speaks in the cause of Humanity and God, to those who smite what they might save-to be condemned?
The Resolve that Theodore Parker should have a chance to be heard was more than the word of a friend, or a protest for religious freedom, or a plan for a free church. Before the South Boston sermon, it was known who and what was coming in this young preacher, who had said: 'God still lives; man has lost none of his high nature'; and in his parable of Paul: 'I shall walk by God's light, and fear not.' It was thought that the new truth would be spread by his voice; perhaps not dreamed that one man could spread it so widely. But that simple Resolve, the seed of this Society, was dropped in faith that that truth would prevail-the mover of it having a year or two before, in a little book now forgotten, shown how it was the basis of all true art, criticism, society, morals, laws and religion. But, of this Society: 
First--We may be content to leave almost all that is matter of discussion at this day whilst partisans define their positions, priests their creeds, with a word which covers it all, Vera pro gratis. If truth be started, let old errors go.
Next-Let us look at what he created and did. He ascended to the sublime heights of philosophy and religion; by thought and study made clear to the intellect the truth that fired his soul, that 'God is infinite Perfection, Power, Wisdom, Justice, Love,' and plainly showed it to the world. He saw and showed how, historically and by nature, man grows in the light of love, and has his eyes opened to spiritual truth, as flowers beneath the sun. He took Truth from books and scholars, Religion from the temples and priests, and showed them to the world.
Calmly, and at length, alas with labor too great for that failing frame, thinking death near,-as he said, ' up to his shoulders in his grave,'-he reviewed his work. He wished to live to round it off, hoping for the length of years and strength of his ancestors, but ready to pass the golden gates to immortal life. His work is fragmentary in relation to his idea, though so much is in itself complete. He tells us, that after his discourse of Matters Pertaining to ' Religion,' he formed a plan, and prepared for the afternoon and evening of his days, to show the 'History of the Pro-
<C03>
gressive Development of Religion among the leading Races of Mankind.'
What a few in the groves of the academies, by the lamp of philosophy, in moments of vision had seen, had become to him so clear, that be would not only make it plain and prove it to the reason of men, but would traverse the history of the world, and show its growth; show how, by either method, analysis or synthesis, this one truth was the culmination of human thought. Well may we leave theologies, Christologies, creeds, statutes, societies, to take care of themselves.
Success! For fifteen years a free church. This truth, embodied in labors for the dangerous, perishing, criminal classes; for education, woman, temperance, freedom, peace; its light thrown on the lives of our great men and heroes, put in volumes that will live with the English tongue; put into labors that now move and will move the American Church and State whilst they endure; set forth in a system of religion; a method of spiritual culture; shadowing a scheme of ethics; containing almost the only fit attempt to state the law of laws in the language. His thought, his labor, his life-these are success and triumph enough. After a life brief in years, but in labor how long! in stature how great! in purity how glorious on earth! his mortal robes lie under the skies of Italy. There let them repose, that pilgrims and patriots of the Old World and the New may go to a spot consecrated by blood that flowed thither from j English through American veins. 
He strove to gird them up for a few years' labor more in the service of God and man, but in vain. The soul that wore them was the world's. It speaks yet, and shall speak in pulpit and senate. Boston will thank him for the unequaled munificence of his charity; the Herculean labors of his ministry; the unsullied purity of his life. May she grow to see and live by his truth! Last to have a just pride in being the home of this spiritual Columbus; forget his errors.
Men may raise monuments of stone: they will frame memorials more during in adamantine speech; but he who stood here above the world's fading honors, and his labors will outlast them all. 
Our best tribute, here in the presence of the living spirit, the fittest in his sight, and most lasting, will be the quiet vow not to falter in his work, and, as we may, in Church, or Court, or State, or common; life, to keep in sight the light he showed us, and follow its heavenly guidance.

SPEECH OF RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
At the death of a good and admirable person, we meet to console and animate each other by the recollection of his virtues. 
I have the feeling that every man's biography is at ' his own expense. He furnishes not only the facts but the report. I mean that all biography is autobiography. It is only what he tells of himself that comes! to be known and believed. In Plutarch's lives of Alexander and Pericles, you have the secret whispers; of their confidence to their lovers and trusty friends,; For, it was each report of this kind that impressed ' those to whom it was told in a manner to secure its; ' being told everywhere to the best, to those who speak with authority to their own times, and therefore to ours. For the political rule is a cosmioal rule, that if a man is not strong in his own district, he is not a '. good candidate elsewhere. 
He whose voice will not be heard here again, could well afford to tell his experiences; they were all honorable to him, and were part of the history of the, civil and religious liberty of his times. Theodore Parker was a son of the soil, charged with the energy of New England, strong, eager, inquisitive of knowledge, of a diligence that never tired, upright, of a haughty independence, yet the gentlest of companions; a man of study, fit for a roan of the world; with decided opinions and plenty of power to state them; rapidly pushing his studies so far as to leave few men qualified to sit as critics. He elected his port of duty, or accepted nobly that assigned him in his rare constitution. Wonderful acquisition of know-ledge, a rapid wit that heard all, and welcomed all that came, by seeing its bearing. Such was the largeness of his reception of facts, and his skill to employ them, that it looked as if he were some President of Council to whom a score of telegraphs were ever bringing in reports; and his information would have been excessive, but for the noble use he made of it, ever in the interest of humanity. He had a strong. understanding, a logical method, a love for facts, a! rapid eye for their historic relations, and a skill in stripping them of traditional lustres. He had a sprightly fancy, and often amused himself with throwing his meaning into pretty apologues; yet we can hardly ascribe to his mind the poetic element, though his scholarship had made him a reader and quoter of verses. A little more feeling of the poetic significance of his facts, would have disqualified him j for some of his severer offices to his generation. The old religions have a charm for most minds which it; is a little uncanny to disturb. 'Tis sometimes a question, shall we not leave them to decay without rude shocks? I remember that I found some harshness in his treatment both of Greek and" of Hebrew antiquity, and sympathized with the pain of many good people in his auditory, whilst I acquitted him, of course, of any wish to be flippant. He came at a time when to the irresistible march of opinion, the forms still retained by the most advanced sects showed loose and ' lifeless, and he, with something less of affectionate attachment to the old, or with more vigorous logic, rejected them. 'T is objected to him that he scattered too many illusions. Perhaps more tenderness would have been graceful; but it is vain to charge him with perverting the opinions of men are organic. Simply, those came him who found themselves expressed by him. And j had they not met this enlightened mind, in which; they beheld their own opinions combined with zeal in every cause of love and humanity, they would have suspected their opinions and suppressed them, and so sunk into melancholy or malignity-a feeling of loneliness and hostility to what was reckoned respectable. T is plain to me that he has achieved a historic immortality here; that he has so woven himself in these few years into the history of Boston, that he can never be left out of your annals. It will not be in the acts of City Councils; nor of obsequious Mayors; nor, in the State House, the proclamations of Governors, with their failing virtue-failing them at critical moments-that the coming generations will study what really befell, but in the plain lessons of Theodore Parker in this Music Hall, in Fancuil Hall, or in Legislative Committee Rooms, that the true temper and authentic record of these days will be read. The next generation
will care little for the chances of elections that govern Governors now; it will care little for fine gentlemen who behaved shabbily, but it will read very intelligently in his rough story, fortified with exact anecdotes, precise with names and dates, what part was taken by each actor; who threw himself into the cause of humanity, and came to the rescue of civilization at a hard pinch, and who blocked its course. 
The vice charged against America is the want of sincerity in leading men. It does not lie at his door. He never kept back the truth, for fear to make an enemy. But, on the other hand, it was complained that he was bitter and harsh, that his zeal burned with too hot a flame. It is so difficult, in evil times, to escape this charge-for the faithful preacher most of all. It was his merit, like Luther, Knox, and Latitner, and John Baptist, to speak tart truth, when that was peremptory, and when there were few to say it. But his sympathy for goodness was not leas energetic. One fault he had,-he overestimated his friends,-I may well say it, and sometimes vexed them with the importunity of his good opinion, whilst they knew better the ebb which fellows unfounded praise. He was capable, it must be said, of the most unmeasured
<c04>
eulogies on those he esteemed, especially if he had any jealousy that they did not stand with the Boston public as highly as they ought. His commanding merit as a reformer is this, that he insisted beyond! all men in pulpits,-I cannot think of one rival,-that the essence of Christianity is its practical morals; it is there for use, or it is nothing; and if you combine it with sharp trading, or with ordinary city ambitions to gloze over municipal corruptions, or private intemperance, or successful fraud, or immoral politics, or unjust wars, or the cheating of Indians, or the robbery of frontier nations, or leaving your principles at home to follow on the high seas or in Europe a supple complaisance to tyrants,-it is a hypocrisy, and the truth is not in you; and no love of religious music, or of dreams of Swedenborg, or praise of John Wesley, or of Jeremy Taylor, can save you from the Satan which you are. 
His ministry fell on a political crisis also; on the years when Southern slavery broke over in old banks, made new and vast pretensions, and wrung from the weakness or treachery of Northern people fatal concessions in the Fugitive Slave Bill and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise. Two days bitter in the memory of Boston, the days of the rendition of Sins and of Burns, made the occasion of his most remark-able discourses. He kept nothing back. In terrible earliest he denounced the public crime, and meted out to every official, high and low, his due portion. By the incessant power of his statement, he made. and held a party. It was his great service to freedom. He took awny the reproach of silent consent that would otherwise have lain against the indignant minority, by uttering in the hour and place wherein these outrages were done, the stern protest. 
But whilst I praise this frank speaker, I have no wish to accuse the silence of others. There are men of good powers who have so much sympathy, that they must be silent when they are not in sympathy. If you don't agree with them, they know they only injure the truth by speaking. Their faculties will not play them true, and they do not wish to squeak and gibber, and so they shut their mouths. I can readily forgive this, only not the other, the false tongue which makes worse appear the better cause. There were, of course, multitudes to censure and defame this truth-speaker. But the brave know the brave. Fops, whether in hotels or churches, will utter the fop's opinion, and faintly hope for the salvation of his soul; but his manly enemies, who despised the fops, honored him; and it is well known that his great hospitable heart was the sanctuary to which every soul conscious of an earnest opinion came for sympathy-alike the brave slaveholder and the brave slave-rescuer. These met in the house of this honest man-for every sound heart loves a responsible person, one who does not in generous company say generous things, and in mean company base things, but says one thing-now cheerfully, now indignantly-but always because he must, and because he sees that, whether he speak or refrain from speech, this is said over him; and history, nature and all souls testify to the same. 
Ah, my brave brother! it seems as if, in a frivolous age, our loss were immense, and your place cannot be supplied. But you will already be consoled in the transfer of your genius, knowing well that the nature of the world will affirm to all men, in all times, that which for twenty-five years you valiantly spoke; that the winds of Italy murmur the same truth over your grave; the winds of America over these bereaved streets; that the sea which bore your mourners home affirms it, the stars in their courses, and the inspirations of youth; whilst the polished and pleasant traitors to human rights, with perverted learning and disgraced graces, rot and are forgotten with their double tongue saying all that is sordid for the corruption of man. 
The sudden and singular eminence of Mr. Parker, the importance of his name and influence, are the verdict of his country to his virtues. We have few such men to lose; amiable and blameless at home, feared abroad as the standard-bearer of liberty, taking all the duties he could grasp, and more, refusing to spare himself, he has gone down in early glory to his grave, to be a living and enlarging power, wherever learning, wit, honest valor and independence are honored.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
The lesson of this desk is Truth! That your brave teacher dared to speak, and no more. It is only two or three times in our lives that we pause in telling the whole merit of a friend, from fear of being thought flatterers. What the world thinks easily done, it believes; all beyond is put down to fiction. I find myself hesitating to speak just all I think of THEODOBE PARKER, lest those who did not know him should suppose I flatter, and thus I mar the massive simplicity of his fame. 
Born on the 24th of August, 1810, he died just before finishing his fiftieth year. He said to me, years ago, 'When I am fifty, I will leave the pulpit, and finish the great works I have planned.'" God ordered it so! He has left this desk, and gone there to finish the great works that he planned! Some speak of his death as early; but he died in good old age, if we judge him by his work,-full of labors, if not of years, a long life crowded into few years; as Bacon says, 'Old in hours, for he lost no time.' Truly, he lost not an hour, from the early years when, in his sweet, plain phrase, he tells us ' his father let the' baby pick up chips, drive the cows to pasture, and carry nubs of corn to the oxen'-far on to the closing moment when, faint and dying, he sent us his blessing and brave counsel last November, dated fitly from ROME.. God granted him life long enough to see of the labor of his hands. He planted broadly, and lived to gather a rich, ripe harvest. His life, too, was an harmonious whole:-
--'When brought
Among the tasks of real life, he wrought 
Upon the plan that pleased his childish thought.'
The very last page those busy fingers ever wrote tells the child's story, than which, he says, 'no event in my life has made so deep and lasting an impression on me.' 'A little boy in petticoats, in my fourth year, my father sent me from the field home' A spotted tortoise, in shallow water, at the foot of a rhodora, caught his sight, and he lifted his stick to strike it, when ' a voice within said, " it is wrong." I stood with lifted stick, in wonder at the new emotion, till rhodora and tortoise vanished from my sight. I hastened home, and asked my mother what it was that told me it was wrong. Wiping a tear with her apron, and taking me in her arms, she said, "Some men call it conscience; but I prefer to call it the voice of God in the soul of man. If you listen to it and obey it, then it will speak clearer and clearer, and always guide you right. But if you turn a deaf ear or disobey, then it will fade out, little by little, and leave you in the dark and without a guide."'
Out of that tearful mother's arms grew your pulpit. Here in words-every day in the streets, by deeds, during a hard life, he repeated and obeyed her counsel. 
Of that pulpit, its theology," and its treatment by Unitarian divines, manly and Christian lips spoke to us two weeks ago. It is not for me, even if there were need, to touch on it. Born in that faith, and nurtured in similar maxims of the utmost liberty and the duty of individual investigation and thought, I used it to enter other paths. Mine is the old faith of New England. On those points, he and I rarely talked. What he thought, I hardly know. For myself, standing beneath the Gospel rule of 'judging men by their fruits,' I should have felt stronger in defending my own faith, could I have pointed to any preacher of it who as gently judged and as truly loved his fellowmen. As to doctrines, we both knew that 'the whole of truth can never do harm to the whole of virtue;' that, of course, a man's conception of truth is only
<c05>
his opinion, and not, necessarily, absolute truth. But it is always safe and wise for honest and earnest men to seek for truth everywhere and at all hazards. The results, if not wholly and only good, are yet the best things within our reach. 
The lesson of Theodore Parker's preaching was love. Let me read for you a sonnet still among his papers:-
Oh, Brother! who for us didst meekly wear
The Crown of Thorns about thy radiant brow; 
What Gospel from the Father didst thou bear,
Our hearts to cheer, making us happy now ?
'T is this alone, the immortal Savior cries,
To fill thy heart with ever-active love; 
Love for the wicked as in sin he lies, 
Love for thy Brother here, thy God above; 
Fear nothing ill, 'twill finish in its day,
Live for the Good, taking the ill thou must; 
Toil with thy might, with manly labor pray, 
Living and loving learn thy God to trust, 
And He will shed upon thy soul the blessings of the 
just. 
Standing in these old ways, I cannot but suspect these Unitarian pulpits of some latent and cowardly distrust of their own creed, when I see that if one comes from them to our Orthodox ranks, and believes a great deal more than they do, he is treated with reverend respect; but let him go out on the other side, and believe a very little less, and the whole startled body join in begging the world not to think them naturally the parents of such horrible and dangerous heresy! 
But there is one thing every man may say of this pulpit. It was a live reality, and no sham. Whether tearing theological idols to pieces at West Roxbury, or here, battling with the every-day evils of the streets, it was ever a live voice, and no mechanical or parrot tune: ever fresh from the heart of God, as these flowers, these lillies-the last flower over which, when eyesight failed him, with his old gesture, he passed his loving hand and said, 'How sweet!' Like that story he loved so much to let tell, of Michael Angelo, when in the Roman palace Raphael was drawing his figures too small, he sketched a colossal head of fit proportions, and taught Raphael his fault. So Parker criticised these other pulpits, not so much by censure as by creation; by a pulpit proportioned to the hour-broad as humanity, frank as truth, stern as justice, and loving as Christ. 
Here is the place to judge him. In St. Paul's cathedral, the epitaph says, if you would know the genius of Christopher Wren, 'look around.' Do you ask proof how full were the hands, how large the heart, how many-sided the brain, of your teacher-listen, and you will hear it in the glad, triumphant certainty of your
enemies, that you must close these doors, since his place can never be filled! Do you ask proof of his efficient labor and the good soil into which that seed fell-gladden your eyes by looking back and seeing for how many months the impulse his vigorous hand gave you has sufficed, spite of boding prophecy, to keep these doors open! Yes, he has! left those accustomed to use weapons, and not merely to hold up his hands. And not only among yourselves. From another city, I received a letter, full of deep feeling, and the writer, an orthodox church member, says-
'I was a convert to Theodore Parker before I was a convert to -. If there is anything of value in the work I am doing to-day, it may, in an important sense, be said to have had its root in Parker's heresy. I mean the habit, without which orthodoxy stands emasculated and good for nothing, or independently passing on the empty and rotten pretensions of churches and churchmen, which I learned earliest and more than from any other, from Theodore Parker. He has my love, my respect, my admiration.' 
Yes, his diocese is broader than Massachusetts. His influence extends very far outside these walls. Every pulpit in Boston is freer and more real to-day because of the existence of this. The fan of his example scattered the chaff of a hundred sapless years Our whole city is fresher to-day because of him. The most sickly and timid soul under yonder steeple, hidebound in days and forms and beggarly Jewish elements, little dreams how ten times worse and narrower it was before this sun warmed the general atmosphere around. As was said of Burke's unsuccessful impeachment of Warren Hastings, ' never was the great object of punishment, the prevention of crime, more completely obtained. Hastings was acquitted, but tyranny and injustice were condemned wherever English was spoken.' So we may say of Boston and Theodore Parker. Grant that few adopted his extreme theological views-that not many sympathized in his politics; still, that Boston is nobler, purer, braver, more loving, more Christian to-day, is due more to him than to all the pulpits that vex her Sabbath air. He raised the level of sermons intellectually and morally. Other men were compelled to grow in manly thought and Christian morals in very self-defence The droning routine of dead metaphysics or dainty morals was gone. As Christ preached of the fall of the tower of Siloam the week before, and what men said of it, in the streets of Jerusalem, so Parker rung through our startled city the news of some fresh crime against humanity-some slave hunt, or wicked court, or prostituted official-till frightened audiences actually took bond of their new clergymen that they should not be tormented before their time! 
Men say he erred on that great question of our age-the place due to the Bible. Perhaps so. But William Crafts, one of the bravest men who ever fled from our vulture to Victoria, writes to a friend: 'When the slave-hunters were on our track, and no other minister, except yourself, came to direct our attention to the God of the oppressed, Mr. Parker came with his wise counsel, and told us where and how to go; gave us money-but that was not all-he gave me a weapon to protect our liberties, and a Bible to guide our souls. I have that Bible now, and shall ever prize it most highly.'
How direct and frank his style-just level to the nation's ear! No man ever needed to read any one of his sentences twice to catch its meaning. None suspected that he thought other than he said, or more than he confessed. 
Like all such men, he grew daily-never too old to learn. Mark how closer to actual life, how much bolder in reform, are all his later sermons-especially since he came to the city-every year a step 
-'forward, persevering to the last,
From well to better, daily self-surpassed.'
There are men whom we measure by their times content and expecting to find them subdued to what they work in. They are the chameleons of circumstance; they are Eolian harps, toned by the breeze that sweeps over them. There are others, who serve as guide-posts and land-marks-we measure their times by them. Such was Theodore Parker. Hereafter the critic will use him as a mete-wand, to measure the heart and civilization of Boston. Like the Englishman, a year or two ago, who suspected our great historian could not move in the best circles of the city, when it dropped out that he did not know Theodore Parker, distant men guage us by our toleration and recognition of him. Such men are our Nilometers;
the harvest of the future is according to the height that the flood of our love rises round them. Who cares now that Harvard vouchsafed him no honors! But history will save the fact to measure the calculating and prudent bigotry of our times.
Some speak of him as only a bitter critic and harsh prophet. Pulpits and journals shelter their plain speech in mentioning him under the example of what they call his 'unsparing candor.' Do they feel that the strangeness of their free speech, their unusual frankness, needs apology and example! But he was far other than a bitter critic; though thank God for every drop of that bitterness which came like a whole some rebuke on the dead, saltless sea of American life! Thank God for every indignant protest, for every Christian admonition that the Holy Spirit breathed through those manly lips! But if he deserved any single word, it was 'generous. 'Generous Vir is the description that leaps to the lip of every scholar. He 
<c06>
was generous of money. Born on a New England farm, in those days when small incomings made every dollar a matter of importance, he no sooner had command of wealth than he lived with open hands. Not even the darling ambition of a great library ever tempted him to close his ear to need. Go to Venice or Vienna, to Frankfort or to Paris, and ask the refugees who have gone home,-when here friendsless exiles but for him,-under whose roof they felt most at home! One of our oldest and best teacher writes me, that telling him once, in the cars, of ayoung lad of rare mathematical genius, who could read Laplace, but whom narrow means debarred from the University -'Let him enter, 'said Theodore Parker; 'I will pay his bills.'
No sect, no special study, no one idea bounded his sympathy; but he was generous of judgment, where a common man would have found it hard to be so. Though he does not 'go down to dust without his fame,' though Oxford and Germany sent him messages of sympathy, still, no word of approbation from the old grand names of our land, no honors from University or learned Academy, greeted his brave, diligent, earnest life; men can confess that they voted against his admission to scientific bodies for his ideas, feeling all the while that his brain could furnish half the Academy;-and yet, thus ostracised, he was the most generous, more than just, interpreter of the motives of those about him, and looked on while others reaped where he sowed, with most generous joy in their success. Patiently analyzing character and masterly in marshalling facts, he stamped with generous justice the world's final judgement of Webster, and now that the soreness of the battle is over, friend and foe allow it 
He was generous of labor,-books never served to excuse him from any, the
humblest work. Though 'hiving wisdom with each studious year,' and passionately devoted to his desk, as truly as was said of Milton, 'the lowliest duties on himself he said. What drudgery of the street did that scholarly hand ever refuse? Who so often and constant as he in the trenches, when a slave case made our city a camp? Loving books, he had no jot of a scholar's indolence or timidity, but joined hands with labor everywhere. Erasmus would have found him good company, and Melancthon got brave help over a Greek manuscript; but the likeliest place to have found him in that age would have been at Zwingle's side, on the battle-field, pierced with a score of fanatic spears For, above all things, he was terribly in earnest. If I sought to paint him in one word, I should say he was always in earnest.
I spoke once of his diligence, and we call him tireless, unflagging, unresting. But they are commonplace words, and poorly describe him. What we usually call
diligence in educated men does not outdo, does not equal the day-laborer in ceaselessness of toil. No scholar, not even the busiest, but losters out from his weary books, and feels shamed by the hodman or the plough-boy. The society and amusements of easy life eat up and beguile one-half our time. Those on whose lips and motions hang crowds, of busy idlers, submit to life-long discipline almost every hour a lesson. Those on whose tones float the most precious truth, disdain an effort. The table you write on is the fruit of more toilsome and thorough discipline than the brain of most who deem themselves scholars ever knew. Let us not cheat ourselves with words. But no poor and greedy mechanic, no farm tenant 'on shares,' ever distanced this unresting brain. He brought into his study that conscientious, loving industry which six generations had handed down to him on the hard soil of Massachusetts. He loved work, and I doubt if any workman in our empire equaled him in thoroughness of preparations. Before he wrote his review of Prescott, he went conscientiously through all the printed histories of that period in three or four tongues. Before he ventured to paint for you the portrait of John Quincy Adams, he read every line Adams had ever printed, and all the attacks upon him that could he found in public or private collections.
Fortunate man! he lived long enough to see the eyes of the whole nation turned toward him as to a trusted teacher. Fortunate, indeed, in a life so noble, that even what was scorned from the pulpit, will surely become oracular from the tomb! Thrice fortunate, if he loved fame and future influence, that the leaves which bear his thoughts to posterity are not freighted with words penned by sickly ambition or wrong from hunger-but with earnest thoughts on dangers that make the ground tremble under our feet, and the heavens black over our heads-the only literature sure to live. Ambition says, 'I will write, and be famous 'T is only a dainty tournament, a sham fight, forgotten when the smoke clears away. Real books are like Yorktown or Waterloo, whose cannon shook continents at the moments, and echo down the centuries Through such channels Parker poured his thought. 
And true hearts leaped to his side. No man's brain ever made him warmer friends; no man's heart ever held them firmer. He loved to speak of how many hands he had, in every city, in every land, ready to work for him. With royal serenity he levied on all. Vassal hearts multiplied the great chief's powers. And at home the gentlest and deepest love, saintly, unequalled devotion, made every hour sunny, held off every care, and left him double liberty to work. God comfort that widowed heart!
Judge him by his friends. No man suffered any where, who did not feel sure of his sympathy. In sick chambers, and by the side of suffering humanity, he kept his heart soft and young. No man lifted a he hand anywhere for truth and right, who did not look on Theodore Parker as his fellow-laborer. When men hoped for the future, this desk was one stone on which they planted their feet. Where, more frequent than around his board, would you find men familiar with Europe's dungeons and the mobs of our own streets? Wherever the fugitive slave might worship, here was his Gibraltar. Over his mantel, however scantily furnished, in this city or elsewhere, you were sure to find a picture of Parker.
But he is gone! So certain was he of his death, that in the still watches of the Italian night, he comforted the sickening hopes of those about him by whispering- 
'I hear a voice you cannot hear,
Which says I must not stay;
I see a hand you cannot see,
Which beckons me away.
But where shall we stop? This empty desk! You may fill it, but where is he who called it into being? Who shall make it so emphatically the symbol of the free thought? For most men to have stood here was sufficient credentials. Here the young knight earned his spurs. Around it has swelled and tossed the battle of Christian liberty. The debate, whether Theodore Parker should speak in one place or preach in another, has been one of God's chief methods of teaching this land the lesson of what bigots style toleration and freemen better call Christian liberty. 
He has passed on -we linger. That other world grows more real to us, as friend after friend enters it. Soon more are there than on this side; soon our hearts are more than half there. God tenderly sunders the few ties that still bind us. So live that when called to join that other assembly, we shall feel we are only passing from an apprenticeship of thought and toil to broader fields and a higher teacher above. 
The blessings of the poor are his laurels. Say that his words won doubt and murmur into trust in a loving God-let that be his record! Say that to the hatred and friendless, he was shield and buckler-let that be his epitaph! The glory of children is the fathers. When you voted 'that Theodore Parker should be heard in Boston,' God honored you. Well have you kept that pledge. In much labor and with many sacrifices he has laid the corner-stone. His work is ended here. God calls you to put on the top stone Let fearless lips and Christian lives be his monument!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNOIN WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTAN. JUNE 22, 1860.
THE INSSURRECTION OF 1776!
The eighty-fifth anniversary of this great American triumph will be celebrated by a grand MASS MEETING, in the handsome and commodious Grove in <illegible> on Wednesday, July 4th. Turning with abhorrence form the mockery of commemorating the achievements of freedom by servility to Slavery let all who hate despotism in the garb of Democracy and republicanism as well as of Monarchy, and would overthrow it by every weapon that may be legitimately wielded against it, assemble to consider the modern and pregnant issues of the hour-how we may best preserve the principles of the Revolution, and carry them forward to a speedy and enduring triumph.
Specials trains swill run upon the different railroads, as hereto fore. An able carps of eloquent speakers will be in attendance. [Particulars hereafter.]
FRANCIS JACKSON, Committee of Arrangements.
WM. LLOYS GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements. 
E.H. HEYWOOD, Committee of Arrangements.
HEXRY O. STONE, Committee of Arrangements. 
CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements.

GEO.W.STACY, Committee of Arrangements.
THE LATE REV. THEODORE PARKER. Exercises in commemoration of the death of the late Rev. THEREDORE PARKER were held by the Twenty Eighth congregational Society, in Music Hall, Sunday forenoon. The capacious hall was crowded to reception in every party, and hundreds of men and women remained standing through the entire services, lasting upwards of two hours. So great was the desire to be present, that people went to the hall as early as 8 o' clock; and by half- past 9 the hall was filled. Among the congregation were many well known citizens, including hundreds who belong to other churches and denominations. Taken altogether, it was a gathering such as is not often witnessed in Boston. and may be regarded as a testimonial of no common character and significance to the memory, the talents. labors and life of the distinguished deceased.
The alter at which Mr. Parker was wont to preach was literally covered with flowers in the form of wreaths, bouquets, &e. In front of the altar was suspended a CROSS, composed of white flowers and evergreen. On each side were numerous wreaths of variegated flowers, the rarest and mosses beautiful of the season; and upon the top at each wing were loquats large in size, and placed in vacant. Upon the velvet, side of the Bible, was the favorite of Mr. Parker, the Lilly of the Valley, a humble but handsome Flower. The whole desk was radiant with these floral tributes, while the fragrance they exhaled was only surpassed by their surpassingly regal hues. 
The exercises were as follow:-1. Voluntary upon the organ. 2. Chant from 139th Psalm. 3. Prayer by Rev. John L. Russell, of Hingham. 4. Address by Charles M. Ellis, Esq. 5.Hymn. 6. Reading selections [made by Mr. Parker himself while among the Alpine mountains in September last, in anticipation of the sad event] from the Beatitudes and Psalms, by John R. Manley, I Secretary of the Society. 7. Address by Ralph Waldo Emerson. 8. The following 
ORIGINAL ODE. 
BY FRANKLIN R. SANBORN.
Fair Sumner glides, with face serene, 
Along the quickening earth to-day 
In murmuring woods and pastures green 
The thrush and sparrow carol gay. 
But ours must be the song of wo, 
And tears and wintry gloom are ours, 
For one brave heart that lies below 
The tender grass and laughing flowers. 
Across the melancholy wave 
Our constant thought flies swiftly there, 
And lingers hovering round his grave, 
Amid the fragrant Tuscan air. 
O, rest in peace! from labors rest! 
Too long thimbles release we weep; 
Thy body sleeps in Earth's kind breast, 
Its loftier way thy soul doth keep. 
With us, with us thy memory dwells, 
Forbids despair, and hushes strife,— 
Here most, where every echo tells 
The story of thy noble life.
Yet what can check our sorrow here?
Or who more justly weep than we, 
While Love and Reverence force the tear, 
And Truth and Freedom mourn for thee? 
9. Address by Wendell Phillips. 10. Hymn. II Benediction. We are indebted to the Boston Atlas by Bee for a full report of the proceedings, made for that paper by Mr. Yerrinton, and published in its Monday's edition. 
At the meeting of the ' Friends of Human Progress,' held at Waterloo, New York, on the 1st, 2nd, and 3d of June, the following resolutions were adopted: — 
Resolved, That in the death of Theodore Parker, we have this day to mourn the loss of a true and tried, a wise ands noble man—one greatly distinguished for clear, comprehensive insights: bold, uncompromising, powerful utterance of the truths of absolute religion and the laws of human welfare, and also for his warm catholic philanthropies, embracing in their regards all mankind, and his high unwavering loyally to Truth, justice, Freedom universal. Resolved, That the solemn imprecations by leading: religionists of this land, of evil upon the head of Theodore Parker during his active life, their exultation and boasted triumph, over prostration and removal illustrate afresh the hypocritical character, the bitter malignities and sorceries of the prevailing popular religion, are of a kind and piece with the fierce intolerance and bloody inflictions of ' the middle ages,' and also an apt. significant expression, in modern dialect, of the envenomed bigotry and hate that nailed Jesus to the cross, and shouted Away with this fellow from the earth!'
Resolved, That as a meeting, we hereby trader assurances of our warm sympathy to those upon whom this loss falls most heavily— the family of our brother, and the religious society wont to listen to his words— and while we condole deeply with them in their bereavement and sadness. we would yet remind them that there is consultation amid this sorrow, that the elements of character that shone in his person are intrinsically impressible and eternal, that the voice still abides untouched of death, to enrich, quicken end refresh, and that his name and history, far enough from empty or fruitless, are vital to all mankind, and must live henceforth unforgotten in the human recollection, as of a high prophet and signal benefactor to race. 
A HYMN OF THEODORE PARKER.-The following hymn, says the New York Evening Post, is from the Pen of the late Rev. Theodore Parker, and may be found in the Rev. Samuel Longfellow's 'Book of Hymns,' published by Ticknor & Fields, of Boston. This book has been pronounced 'one of the best collections of sacred poetry extant,' and has already reached its tenth edition. Some of its hymns were copied into the Rev. Mr. Beecher's hymn-book by permission of the Rev. Mr. Longfellow; and a little <illegible> connected with the procurement of this hymn of the Rev Mr. Parker's will not be out of place. It seems that when Mr. Longfellow applied for it, Mr. Parker at first declined (knowing how unpopular he was with many people,) and said, ' It will damn your but I must ' Well.' replied Mr. Longfellow, ' then let it, but I exist have a hymn from you.' So Mr. Parker wrote it, and his society adopted and used the book:
'CHIRST, THE WAY, THE TRUTH, AND THE LIFE.'
O thou great Friend to all the sons of men, 
Who once appeared in humblest guise below, 
Sin to rebuke, to break the captive's chain, 
And call the wretched forth from want and woe:
We look to thee! Thy truth is Mill the Light 
Which guides the nations groping on their way,
Stumbling and falling in disastrous night, 
Yet hoping are for the perfect day.
Yes! thou art still the Life; thou art the Way 
The holiest know—Light, Life and Way of heaven!
 And they who dearest hope, and deepest pray, 
Toil by the light, life, way, which thou hast given.
<c02>
'ODIUM THEOLOGICUM.'
 When Peter Simple was going to join the' Sanglier''frigate, he learned from the other midshipmen, his companions, that Capt. Kearney, her commander, was a most inveterate and enormous liar, a report which be afterwards found perfectly correct, the course of Capt. Kearney's life being in accordance with these two incidents near its close.
It was Peter's turn to watch with his commander on the night which proved the last of his life, and Peter ventured to ask if he should read a chapter in the Bible to him. Capt. Kearney assented, and, being desired to choose what part should be read to him, replied, ' Peter, you may read me that place where Jacob came so cleverly over his brother <illegible> A few hours later, the remark being made by one of those standing by his hammock to another—' He can't last much longer; don't you hear the death-rattle in his throat?'—Capt. Kearney made signs that he wished to speak, and brought out with difficulty, and at intervals, what proved to be his last words, to the effect that he had known—a man—to live—with the death-rattle—in his throat—six weeks!
Notwithstanding this habit of mendacity, carried so consistently through the whole of Capt. Kearney's life, among the few words of counsel which he gave to Peter Simple, when the latter reported himself as having joined the ship, was the following:—' Be particularly careful always to speak the truth!'
The Congregationalist, (one of the most unscrupulous even of those papers which call themselves ' religious,') in an editorial article—June 15th—purporting to describe the character of Theodore Parker, gives the following repetition of its accustomed misstatements: — 
'We think that—now that he is gone—the press, in general, by a not unnatural kindness of heart, has greatly over-estimated him in several particulars. He was a man of zeal in the acquisition of knowledge, and of great tenacity of purpose; having strong conceptions of certain favorite truths, and violent prejudices against certain theories which he did not accept. He was a great gormandize of books, and, with tenacious memory, held his wide stores of accumulation from them always ready for effective use. But it never seemed to us that he was either a thorough scholar, or, in any just sense of the phrase, a learned man. His investigations seemed partial and incomplete, and he seldom gave any evidence of having exhausted any topic on which he touched. Moreover, he lacked that calm completeness of nature which is essential to the thorough mastery of the various departments of human knowledge. Many things he despaired so utterly that he was wholly unfitted to know them, or topics related to them, either fairly or completely. His learning, moreover, was mostly at second hand; a re-issue of the crudities of German rationalism. He never sufficiently understood the Hebrew or Greek Scriptures to fit him for independent. critical judgment upon them; nor have we the evidence that he ever mastered the science of Ethics so far as to qualify him to speak, at first hand, of its sublime verities.

The other fault, and the one that afflicted us with the most painful doubts in regard to the essential honesty of the man's own life, was that of a want of earnest and conscientious truth in speaking of others, He was more anxious to emphasize a strong period than to deal candidly with those whose opinions he was assailing. We have, more than once, known him to repeat an effective public appeal founded on some alleged fact in the conduct of others, after he had been notified of the falseness of his premises, and had admitted the justice of the correction.
' Lies of this sort are such as the Congregationalist; has long been accustomed to tell of Mr. Parker. But the peculiar characteristics of Capt. Kearney were brought to my mind by the fact that this very article begins with saying—
 'No man ever more deserved to have the truth told of him than Theodore Parker'—and ends with saying— 
'We have written this in the sorrowful conviction that the truth needed to be spoken.'
'The truth,' indeed! The clerical Kearney outdoes the secular one.—c. k.. w.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN, THE SLAVE-HOUND OF ILLINOIS.
We gibbet a Northern hound to-day, side by side we it the infamous Mason of Virginia. Mason's Slave Bill is based on that clause of the United States Constitution, which provides for the surrender of slaves escaping from one State into another State of the Union. 
The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the District of Columbia is not a State within the meaning of the Constitution. See Hepburn vs. Ellzey, 2 Cranch 445. The District of Columbia is not, therefore, included in the terms of, the Fugitive Slave clause. Whoever tries to extend the dominion of that clause over the District of Columbia, exhibits only his own voluntary baseness, can have no pretence of constitutional obligation, out Mason's Mason, and stamps himself a hound of special 'alacrity.'
This deed ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Republican candidate for President, has done! Here are the facts: Extract of a Bill introduced by Hon. Abraham Lincoln, in the U. S. House of Representative, Jan. 10, 1849. (See Congressional Globe, appendix, 2d Session 30th Congress, p. 212.) 
'Section 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and required to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners, ALL FUGITIVE SLAVES escaping into said District.'
Mr. Lincoln, in order to introduce this Bill, requested the House to reconsider the vote, instructing the Committee on the District of Columbia to report a Bill for abolishing the Slave Trade therein. To this request, Bingham, Dickenson, Giddings, Greeley, Horace Mann, Palfrey, Hudson, Wentworth, Wilmot, voted NAY. While Albert G. Brown, (now the slave-code and slave-trading Senator,) Butler, (of Bully Brooks infamy,) Howell Cobb, Goggin, Rhett, Iverson. LINCOLN, Toombs, voted YEA.
 Mr. Lincoln, in urging his request, said he had submitted his proposition to various leading citizens of the District of Columbia, who gave it their unanimous approval.
No wonder Mr. Lincoln is unwilling to make any opposition to the Fugitive Slave Bill! No wonder the Chicago Convention omitted that point in their Resolutions! Their standard-bearer has a worse Bill to answer for than even Mr. Mason.
The New York Tribune affirms that Mr. Lincoln stands on his record, and has no wish to alter any part of it. We wait to know of Republican journals where to draw that line which shall allow us nil our indignation against Mason, and yet save the fame of their candidate. W.P. 

SUMNER’S SPEECH AND THADDEUS HYATT. Our readers will see by an advertisement in another column, that THADDEUS HYATT is never weary in 'good works. By his zeal and activity, he raised over twenty-four hundred dollars for the afflicted family of JOHN brown. He has since fought a great battle for freedom and human rights, by submitting to imprisonment in Washington rather than become a witness before an illegal inquisition, created by the United States Senate. Before his discharge, he had sent to Boston a copy of the advertisement referred to. We do not doubt that his appeal will be promptly responded to.
ANNIVERSARY AT NEWPORT. The Friends' Boarding School Association held their second meeting since the organization of the Association at Newport on the 12th inst. There was a full and interesting assembly. Pliny Earle of Leicester, Mass., President, made a neat and appropriate address, which was followed by other exercises, among which was a Poem, by John G. Whittier, read by 8. G. Chase, nephew of the poet, the latter suffering somewhat from ill-health. We give it entire, in our poetical department.
<c03>
SPEECH OF SENATOR SUMNER,
On the Report Providing for the Release of Thaddeus Hyatt, In the TJ. 8. Senate, June 15.
MR. PRESIDENT: I welcome with pleasure the proposition for the discharge of Mr. Hyatt from his long incarceration in the filthy jail where be has been detained by the order of the Senate. But I am unwilling that this act of justice should be done to a much injured citizen, without for one moment exposing the injustice which he has received at your hands.
The case, it seems to me. can be made as plain as a diagram.
We must not forget a fundamental difference between the powers of the House of Representatives and the powers of the Senate. It is from the former that the Senator from. Virginia has drawn his precedents, and here is his mistake. 
To the House of Representatives are given inquisitorial powers expressly by the Constitution, while no such powers are given to the Senate. This is expressed in the words, 'The House of Representatives shall have the sole power of impeachment.' Here, then, obviously, is something delegated to the House, and not delegated to the Senate—namely, those inquiries which are in their nature preliminary to an. impeachment —which may or may not end in impeachment; and since, by the Constitution, every 'civil officer' of the General Government may be impeached , the inquisitorial powers of the House may be directed against every 'civil officer," from the President down to the lowest on the list,
This is an extensive power, but it is confined solely to the House. Strictly speaking, the Senate has no general inquisitorial powers. It has judicial powers in three cases under the Constitution:— 
1. To try impeachments. 
2. To judge the elections, returns and qualifications of its members. 
3. To punish its members for disorderly behavior, and, with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a number.
In the execution of these powers, the Senate has the attributes of a court, and, according to established precedents, it may summon witnesses and compel their testimony, although it may well be doubted if a law be not necessary, even to the execution of this power.
Besides these three cases, expressly named in the Constitution, there are two others, where it has already undertaken to exercise judicial powers, not by virtue of express words, but in self-defence:
1. With regard to the conduct of its servants, as of its printer.
2. When its privileges have been violated, as in the case of William Duane, by a libel, or in the case of Nugent, by stealing and divulging a treaty while still under the seal of secrecy. 

It will be observed that these two classes of cases are not sustained by the text of the Constitution, but if sustained at all, it must be by that principle of universal jurisprudence, and also of natural law, which gives to every body, whether natural or artificial, the right to protect its own existence—in other words, the great right of self-defence. And I submit that no principle less solid could sustain this exercise of power. It is not enough to say that such a power would be convenient, highly convenient, or important. It must be absolutely essential to the self-presentation of the body; and even then, in the absence of any law, it may be open to the gravest doubts.
'Doubtless,' says Blackstone, ' all arbitrary measures. well executed, are the most convenient.'—(Commentaries, vol. 4, p. 350.) But mere convenience is not a proper reason, under a free government, for the assumption of powers not granted; and this is especially the case where the powers are arbitrary and despotic, and touch the liberty of the citizen.
Now, if the present inquiry were in the House of Representatives, and were directed against the President or the Secretary of War, on the ground of negligence or malfeasance at an important moment, it would be clearly within the jurisdiction of that body, which has the sole power of impeachment; but it would not come within the jurisdiction of the Senate until it became the duty of the latter body to try the impeachment instituted by the House. 
But the present inquiry is neither preliminary to an impeachment, nor on the trial of an impeachment. It has no such element to sustain it. It is precisely the same as if an inquiry should be instituted into the murder of Dr. Burdell in New York—or into the burning of slaves in Alabama—or into the banks of New York—or into the conduct of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in alleged obstructions of the Fugitive Slave Bill—with regard to all which the Senate has no judicial powers. And yet, it has judicial powers in all these cases, precisely to the same extent that it has in the case of John Brown at Harper's Ferry.
 I know it is said that this power is necessary in aid of legislation. I deny the necessity. Convenient, at times, it may be, but necessary, never. We do not drug the members of the Cabinet or the President to testify before a committee, in aid of legislation; but I say, without hesitation, they can claim no immunity which does not belong equally to the humblest citizen. Mr. Hyatt and Mr. Sanborn have rights as ample as if they were office-holders. Such a power as this, which, without the sanction of law, and merely at the will of a partisan majority, may be employed to ransack the most distant States, and to drag citizens before the Senate all the way from Wisconsin or from South Carolina—may be convenient, and to certain persons may seem to be necessary. An alleged necessity has, throughout all time, been the apology for wrong. 
'So speak the fiend, and with necessity, 
The tyrant's plea, excused his devilish deeds.' 
Such, according to Milton, was the practice among the fallen angels.
Let me be understood as admitting the power of the Senate, where it is essential to its own protection or the protection of its privileges, but not where it is required merely in aid of legislation. The difference is 'world-wide between what is required for protection, and what is required merely for aid; and here I part company with Senators with whom I am proud on other matters to act. They hold that this great power may be exercised, not merely for the protection of the Senate, but also for its aid in framing a bill or in maturing any piece of legislation. To aid a committee of this body merely in a legislative purpose, a citizen, guilty of no crime, charged with no offence, presumed to be innocent, honored and beloved in his neighborhood, may be seized, handcuffed, kidnapped, and dragged away from his home, hurried across State lines, brought here as a criminal, and then thrust into jail. The mere statement of the case shows the dangerous absurdity of such a claim. 'Nephew,' said Algernon Sidney in prison, on the night before his execution,' I value not my own life a chip; but what concerns me is, that the law which takes away my life may hang every one of you, whenever it is thought convenient." It was a dangerous law that aroused the indignation of the English Patriot. But in the present case, there is not even a law—nothing but an order made by a fractional part of Congress. 
There are Senators here who pretend to find in the Constitution the right to carry slaves into the national Territories. That such Senators should also find in the same Constitution the right to make a slave of Mr. Hyatt, or Mr. Sanborn, or any body else, merely to and legislation, is not astonishing; but I am at a loss how any Senator who loves freedom can find any such right in the Constitution.
I say nothing now of the precedents of the British Parliament, for they are all more or less inapplicable. We live under a written Constitution, with certain specified powers, and all these are restrained by the 10th amendment, declaring that ' The powers not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.' But even the British precedents have found a critic at home in the late Chief Justice of England, Lord Denham, pronouncing judgment in the great case of Stockdale v. Hansard, <illegible> Adolph, and Ellis 1, and also in the words of an elegant and authoritative historian, whose life has been passed in one or the other of the two Houses of Parliament; I refer to Lord Mahon, now the Earl Stanhope, who, in his History of England, vol. 4, page 30, thus remarks:
'I may observe, in passing, that throughout the reign of George II.. the privileges of the House of Commons flourished in the rankest luxuriance. So long as men in authority are enabled to go beyond the law, on the plea of their own dignity and power the only limit to their encroachments will be that of the public endurance.'
Nothing can be more true than this remark. But Lord Brougham has expressed himself in words yet stronger, and, if possible, sill more applicable to the present case:
'All rights,' says this consummate orator, 'are now entirely disregarded by the advocates of privilege excepting that of exposing their own shortsighted impolicy and thoughtless inconsistency. Nor would there be any safety for the people under their guidance, if, unhappily, their powers of doing mischief bore any proportion to their disregard of what is politic and just.'—Lord Brougham's Speeches, vol. 4, p. 344.
With these remarks I quit this question, anxious only that the recent usurpation of the Senate may not be drawn into a precedent hereafter.
WANTED—Copies of Liberator of June 8th. Any of our friends who have them to spare will greatly oblige by sending them to 'Liberator,' 221 Washington street.
<c04>

MR. SUMNER'SM SPEECH —LETTER FROM JOSIAH QUINCY.
Mr. Sumner's speech has been published by the Congressional Republican Committee, in a pamphlet of 32 pages. The appendix contains the remarks made by Senator Chestnut of South Carolina, which Mr.. Sumner, in accordance with his promise, has printed as an additional illustration of the Barbarism of Slavery. Mr. Sumner explain that in the language which be used, 'Mr.<illegible> refer to the assault upon Mr. Sumner with a bludgeon, on the floor of the Senate, by a Representative from South Carolina, since dead, aided by another Representative from the same State, and also a Representative from Virginia, on account of which Mr. Sumner had been compelled to leave his seat vacant, and seek the restoration of his health by travel. As Mr. Chestnut spoke, he was surrounded by the slave-masters of the Senate, who seemed to approve what he said. There was no call to order by the Chair, which was occupied at the time by Mr. Bigler of Pennsylvania.'
The appendix also contains the following letter from' a venerable citizen, an ornament of our legislative halls at the beginning of the century, and now the oldest survivor of all who have ever been members of Congress':—
BOSTON, June 5, I860.
Dear Sir, —I have read a few abstracts from your noble speech, but must wait for it in pamphlet form, that I may read it in such type as eyes, in the eighty-ninth year of their age, will permit. But I have read enough to approve, and rejoice that you have been permitted, thus truly, fully, and faithfully, to expose the ' Barbarism' of Slavery on that very floor on which yon were so cruelly and brutally stricken down by the spirit of that Barbarism.
I only hope that in an appendix you will preserve the very effigies of that insect that attempted to sting you. Remember that the value of amber is increased by the insect it preserves.
Yours, very truly,
JOSIAH QUINCY.
So the South Carolina Senator goes down to posterity as a preserved Chestnut.—Boston Atlas. 
A correspondent of the Boston Traveller, who had the pleasure of hearing the great and masterly speech of Mr. Sumner, thus speaks of it:—'The four hours which we listened to him can never pass from our memory. An arraignment of slavery so exhaustive has never before been made in our history, and it will supersede the necessity of another. Hereafter, when one desires to prove slavery irrational and unconstitutional, he will go to that speech as to an arsenal. Near Mr. Sumner, throughout his speech, sat his colleague, Gen. Wilson, also Mr. Burlingame and Owen Lovejoy; and had any Southern member attempted a repetition of the Brooks assault, he would have found an either of them a foeman worthy of his steel."

SENATOR MASON'S REPORT.
The ponderous Senator Mason has made a long report from the Committee on the Harper's Ferry Insurrection, but the labor of the mountain has produced only a ridiculous mouse. A more flagrant failure, after so sounding a manifesto, never before occurred; and if the haughty Virginian had a proper sense of his ludicrous position, he would have been ashamed to make any report.
Mr. Doolittle presented a minority report, which , was not read, and the committee was discharged.
Mr. Mason, from the same committee, asked to be discharged from the further consideration of the bill relating to the invasion of States, and the memorial for the release of Hyatt. Agreed to.
He also made a special report on the petition of the negroes of Massachusetts for the release of Hyatt, recommending the return of the petition to the memorialists. Laid over.
Mr. Doolittle made a minority report, that the right of petition could not be denied to any one. Laid over.
Mr. Mason, from the same committee, made a report discharging Hyatt from custody.
Mr. Sumner welcomed with pleasure the release of Mr. Hyatt from a filthy jail, but could not refrain from commenting on the action of the Senate. Mr. Mason had derived precedents for the committee from the House, which had inquisitorial powers. The Senate had no such power. He argued at length against the action of the Senate being hereafter regarded as a precedent.
The resolution for Hyatt's discharge was agreed to.
ART MATTERS. Since the illness of the late Rev. Theodore Parker began to forbid the hope of his recovery, several of our sculptors have been engaged in preserving for us his lineaments. Mr. William W. Story, it is generally known, executed a marble bust of Mr. Parker, in Italy, which has not yet reached this country, and a lady of our city is said to have sometime ago begun to model one which promised to be very successful, but which remains unfinished. It is by a statuette bust, however, that the larger number of Mr. Parker's friends would probably prefer to remember his features. Mr. Jas. A. Jackson's is already before the public; and we have had an opportunity to see another just finished by Miss Marguerite F. Foley, which has received the highest encomiums from the intimate associates of Mr. Parker. The likeness is, to our eye, the most just and striking of any portrait of him that we have seen, and the expression, chosen out of the many aspects of the original face, is that, we think, which will, more than any other, afford general satisfaction to his friends. Miss Foley has already won a reputation unrivalled in this country, as an artist in cameos; and she has carried into this work the same just perception of character, which have characterized her other portraits, among which, by the way, has been one of Mr. Parker, taken during his lifetime. -Copies of the bust, we learn, will be for sale in a few days. So far as we are aware, all the activity in this direction u in plastic art; we do not hear, that any of our painters are engaged upon a portrait of Mr. Parker.—Boston Atlas.

HELPER’S ‘IMPENDING CRISIS of the south.' Enlarged Edition. One hundred and fortieth thousand. New York: A. B. Burdick, 145 Nassau St.1860.
It is delightful to witness the success of this book, one of the most important that has been written in our time. Success in being bought and read is all that could be hoped for it at once. But wherever read, it must make its mark hastening, in one way or another, the great struggle that is to overthrow slavery. The hundred and forty thousands, widely scattered, and many of them among the non-slaveholding Southrons for whom the book was written, are now germinating and springing up. And the next great and startling event in the decline and fail of slavery, of which we may hear at any moment, the next MOVEMENT (Brown, or of some other color,} towards taking the foot of the slaveholder off the neck, of the slave, will give a mighty impulse to the growth of these shoots of liberty, and perhaps show a harvest already ripened for practical use in the cause of freedom. 
This edition is considerably enlarged, not by a supplement, but by additions in various places through its course. I rejoice to say that these additions are not a dilution of the book, but that the portions added, and the preface to the enlarged edition, have the true masculine ring which distinguished the first edition. 
The table of contents, alphabetically arranged, is a great improvement; but the other table of contents, stating the leading idea and the principal features of the successive chapters, in their order, should have been retained. Both are useful. Let this be cared for in the next edition.
Many friends of freedom, old and new, will rejoice to see the features of the author, whose portrait embellishes
the enlarged edition.—c. K. w.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held on Monday evening last, which passed resolutions commending the recent speech of Hon. Charles Sumner, and also paying a tribute to the late Rev. Theodore Parker. Particulars next week.
correction. Mr. REDPATH objects that the statement of his views with reference to 'peaceful agitation, ' is not correctly made in the report of the Political Anti-Slavery meeting as copied into the Liberator of last week.
A black man and woman, brother and sister, fugitives from North Carolina, have passed through Lowell, Mass., within a day or two, on their way to Canada.
Seventeen slaves and a white man have been arrested at New Orleans, on suspicion of having set the fire which destroyed the steamers D. F. Kenner and B. F. Clark, and a barge, on the 30th ult.
<c05>
RECEIPTS
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from May 1, to June 1, 1860. 
COLLECTIONS BY MISS S. HOLLEY. 
Oakdale <illegible> $2, Paxton 8 34,Tatnick 4 18, North Blackastone 4, N.T. Allen, West Newton,5. friends 1, Barre 4 38, Petersham 6 48, Athol 2, South Gardner 4, Gardner 1 78, Hubbardston 3. Westminster 10, Hold en 2 50. Baldwinville 1 63, Templeton 6 38, East Terapleton 5 25, Fitzwilliam 5, Keene 12 63, Marlboro' 5 62, Dublin 4, Peterboro' 10, Milford 10, Amherst 2 31. Lather Melendy 3, Manchester 9, Weare 3, North Weare 6 25, Concord 11 25. Henniker 3, Bradford. 3 18; $163 16.
BY S. MAY, JR. 
Of Reuben H. Ober. to redeem pledge, 10 00 
Mrs. Mary May. do. do. 50 00 
D. B. Morey. Malden, do. do. 10 00 
Jno. Knowlton, Beverly do. do. 3 00 
     $73 00 
BY ANDREW T. FOSS. 
In Cunningham, Mass., 30; in Huntington, Mass,5 35 00 
BY S. MAY, JR. 
J.G. Dodge, West Cambridge, to redeem pledges, 8 00 
Reading Anti-Slavery Society, by Mrs. E. H. Porter, Treasurer, 12 56 
Elijah Hobart, Hingham, to redeem pledge, 5 00 
       $ 25 56

EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, June 1, 1860. 
Among the many restoratives which nature has supplied to relieve the afflictions of humanity, there is no more favorite one for a certain class of diseases than the ' medicinal gum' of the Wild Cherry Tree; but however valuable it if, its power to heal, to soothe, to relieve, and to cure, is enhanced ten fold by scientific and judicious combination with other ingredients, in themselves of equal worth. This happy mingling exists in that 
‘Combination and a form indeed' 
Of medicine known as 
DR.WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY, 
Whose value in curing Coughts, Colds, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Asthma, Pulmonary Affection, and Incipient Consumption, it inestimable.
 Strong Testimony 
FROM BENJAMIN WHEELER, Esq., Depot Master at South Royalton, Mass. 
SOUTH ROYALTON Jan. 4, 1860. 
Messrs. seth W. FLOWLE & Co., Boston: Gents.
,-Although unsolicited by you, I cannot refrain from adding my testimony to the many already given in favor of your Wistar's Bilsam of Wild Cherry. -In the spring of 1858, I was most severely afflicted with a hard, dry cough, with its usual accompaniments night sweats, completely prostrating my nervous system, and producing such a debilitated state of health, that after trying medical aid to no purpose. I had given up all hopes of ever recovering, as had also my friends. At this stage of matters, I was prevailed upon through the influence of a neighbor to try Wistar's Balsam, though with no belief whatever in its truly wonderful curative properties, and before using two bottles, the effect was almost magical. My cough entirely left me, the night sweats deserted me, hope once more elated my depressed spirits, and soon I had attained my wonted strength and vigor.
Thus has this Balsam, as has often been remarked by persons conversant with the above facts in this vicinity, literally snatched me from the yawning grave.
You are at liberty to use this for the benefit of the afflicted.
Very respectfully yours,
BENJ. WHEELER.
Prepared by S. W. FOWLE & CO. Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers everywhere.
May 25th.
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfume, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin. leaving the same-as Nature intended it should be-soft,, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). JAS. S. MARSHALL,
Practical Chemist, 
No. 32 City Buildings, New York. 
New York, June 6. 3m
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will speak in the lower Town Hall, in Andover, Sunday, June 24, at half-past 11/2 and 5 o'clock, P. M.
FALL RIVER.-PARKER PILLSBURY and H FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Fall River, Sunday, June 24, afternoon and evening. They will also speak in New Bedford, Tuesday evening, June 26. 
MILFORD, N. H-E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Milford, N. H., Sunday, June 24. 
MILFORD. H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Milford, (Mass.) Sunday, July 1st.
DIED—In Cambridgeoport, May 4, much lamented by friends and relatives, Mr. CHARLES A.REVALEON, aged 42. 
In this city, June 17, THEODORE PARKER, youngest child of John C. and Fanny S. Haynes, aged 1 year and 11 months.
40,000 COPIES OF CHARLES SUMNER'S GREAT SPEECH! The undersigned has determined to supply the Clergy of the country, each, one of them, with a copy of it this, THE GREAT SPEECH OF THE COUNTRY! one thousand dollars is required for this purpose. Such friends of freedom as desire to share with me the pleasure of this undertaking, may enclose their subscriptions to my friend, the Hon. SAMUEL E.
S'EWALL, No, 46 Washington street, Boston. THADDEUS HYATT. Washington Jail, June 13, 1860.

 Anti-Tobacco Publications.
THE Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society are for sale at Nos. 5, 9 and 13, Cornhill, Boston, and also at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass. 
Among them are the following:— 
Six Tracts for Young America, or Boys. 
A variety of Tracts for Raisers, Sellers, Smokers, Chewers, and Snuffers. 
A variety for Ladies, Clergymen, Physicians and others. 
The Zoological Temperance Convention; The Rev. solomon Spittle; Uncle Tobey's Stories about Tobacco, for Youth and Schools of all sorts; Anti-Tobacco Envelopes, and a variety of handsome Cards, large and small, for Bands of Hope. June 22.

READ THIS.
The subscriber will furnish copies of the following Likenesses in response to orders accompanied with the cash, viz:— 
Lithograph of THEODORE PARKER, 
Lithograph of JOHN BROWN, 
Lithograph of WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
ALSO,
Lithograph of WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
Lithograph of THADDEUS HYATT, 
now in press, and soon to be published by C. H. Brainard, both in the highest style of the celebrated artist D'Avignon, each of these for one dollar. 
Also on hand, a few copies each of the Photographs of John Brown, Lydia Maria Child, and Theodore Parker, each for 50 cents. These will be safely mailed without additional cost. 
Send your orders to WILLIAM C. NELL, 221 Washington street. 
June 15. tf 
A thing of beauty it a joy forever.'
 THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME. 
A BEAUTIFUL picture of a beautiful female child, drawn from life by Thomas M. Johnston, and photographed by Black & Batchelder. Price, One Dollar. Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price.
Published by C. H. BRAINARD, 322 Washington street. at the store of Elliot & White.
June 15. 2wis
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?

READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF. 
TO THE END’S <illegible>My age is sixty-One years ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually failing, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's 'Restorer," No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A, DYE. BUT OPERATES UPON THB SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. TUACHER, Bridge water, Oneida Co., N. Y-, Nov. 22.185 5. President J.I. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee. '
 madam—I would state, that come time last spring I found my hair falling off. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. 1 commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity,' I found that its influence was distinctly visible the fallings of hair ceased, and my locks, 'rich before were quite ch.at. wkkk changed to black. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, 1 have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
 Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. W. CLARK, Editor ' Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
 'I have seen using Mrs. 8. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.
' Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor ' Christian Advocate, ' Buffalo, N.Y.
 Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
 Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D.. Car. See. American and foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
 Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.
' Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ‘ Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
. ' Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. 1 have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair Was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'

Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. ' Guide to Holiness,' Boston. ' Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.
' Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass. 
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ' crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.
' Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., n.y. 
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY. UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.
' GREAT BRITAIN.
 Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England. 
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I con strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
 [The above clergyman is well known throngout Great Britain, and to many in the United State.}
 HAYTI Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS. (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
 In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allan's, she writes to the 'American Baptist.'—-I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
 Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
 I am, happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.
' Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. Presbyterian Witness, ' Cincinnati, Ohio.
 ' It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S.'A, Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert adversisement,' &e
. Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. See. Board of Education R. D. Church. 337 Broadway, N. Y. and New Baltimore, Greene county,N. Y.
 'Some time' since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black 
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prof. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county. N. Y.
 'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.
' Rev.B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y. '
 I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.
' Rev. M. C. KLTNG, Lewistown, Pennsylvania. 
' It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and causeda new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'

We think that if these fail to convice. nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always Insist on having these.
These <illegible> the only preparations exported in anyquantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced.One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot. No. 355 Broome Street. New York.' The Genuine has ' Mr. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim' in offence. 
sold by-every drug and fancy good deskilled Oct 14. lyeop  
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
POETRY. 
THE QUAKER ALUMNI. 
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Read at the recent annual Re-Union of Quaker Friends at Newport, R. I.
From the well-springs of Hudson, the sea-cliffs of Maine,
Grave men, sober matrons, you gather again;
And with hearts warmer grown as your heads grow more cool,
Play over the old game of going to school.
All your strifes and vexations, your whims and complaints,
(You are not saints yourselves, if the children of saints!)
All your petty self-seekings and rivalries done,
Round the dear Alma Mater your hearts beat as one!
How widely soe'er you have strayed from the fold,
Though your 'thee' has grown 'you,' and your drab blue and gold.
To the old friendly speech and the garb's sober form,
Like the heart of Argyle to the tartan, you warm.
But, the first greeting over, you glance round the hall, 
Your hearts call the roll, but they answer not all;
Through the turf green above them the dead cannot hear:
Name by name, in the silence, falls sad as a tear!
In love, let us trust, they were summoned so soon
From the morning of life, while we toil through its noon:
They were frail like ourselves, they had needs like our own,
And they rest as we rest, in God's mercy alone.
Unchanged by our changes of spirit and fame,
Past, now and henceforward, the Lord is the same;
Though we sink in the darkness, his arms break our fall,
And in death as in life, he s Father of all!
We are older; our footsteps, so light in the play
Of the far-away school-time, more slower to-day;-
Here, a beard touched with frost, there, a bald, shining crown,
And beneath the cap's border gray mingles with brown.
But faith should be cheerful, and trust should be glad.
And our follies and sins, not our years, make us sad.
Should the heart closer shut as the bonnet grows prim,
And the face grow in length as the hat grows in brim?
Life is brief, duty grave; but, with rain-folded wings
Of yesterday's sunshine, the grateful heart sings;
And we of all people have reason to pay
The tribute of thanks, and rejoice on our way:
For the counsels that turned from the follies of youth;
For the beauty of patience, the witness of truth;
For the wounds of rebuke, when love tempered its edge;
For the household's restraint, and the discipline's hedge;
For the lessons of kindness vouchsafed to the least
Of the creatures of God, whether human or beast,
Bringing hope to the poor, lending strength to the frail
In the lanes of the city, the slave-hut and jail;
For a womanhood higher and holier, by all
Her knowledge of good, than was Eve ere her fall—
Whose task-work of duty moves lightly as play,
Serene as the moon-light, and warm as the day;
And, yet more, for the faith which embraces the whole 
Of the creeds of the ages, the life and the soul,
Wherein letter and spirit the same channel run,
And man has not severed what God has made one;
For a sense of the goodness revealed everywhere,
As sunshine, impartial and free as the air;
For a trust in humanity, Heathen or Jew,
And a hope for all darkness the light shineth through.
Who scoffs at our birthright? The words of the seers,
And the songs of the bards in the twilight of years,
And the fore-gleams of wisdom in saint and in sage,
In prophet and priest, are our true heritage.
The word which the reason of Plato discerned,
The truth as whose symbol the Mithra fire burned,
The soul of the world which the Stoic but guessed,
In the light universal, the Quaker confessed!
No honors of war to our worthies belong:
Their plain stem of life never flower'd into song;
But the fountains they opened still gush by the way,
And the world for their healing is better to-day.
He who lies where the minster's groin'd arches curve down,
To the tomb-crowded transept of England's renown,
The glorious essayist, by genius enthron'd,
Whose pen as a sceptre the Muses all own'd-
Who through the world's pantheon walk'd in his pride,
Setting new statues up, thrusting old ones aside,
And infiction the pencil of history dipp'd,
To gild o'er or blacken each saint in his crypt—
How vainly he labor'd to sully with blame
The white bust of Penn, in the niche of his fame!
Self-will is self-wounding, perversity blind;
On himself fell the stain for the Quaker design'd!
For the sake of his true-hearted father before him;
For the sake of the dear Quaker mother that bore him;
For the sake of his gifts, and the works that outlive him;
And his brave words for freedom, we freely forgive him!
There are those who take note that our numbers are small;
New Gibbons, who write our decline and our fall;
But the Lord of the seed-field takes care of his own,
And the world shall yet reap what our sowers have sown.
The last of the sect to his fathers may go,
Leaving only his coat for some Barnum to show;
But the truth will outlive him, and broaden with years,
Till the false dies away, and the wrong disappears.
Nothing fails of its end. Out of sight sinks the stone,
In the deep sea of time; but the circles sweep on
Till the low-rippled murmurs along the shores run,
And the dark and dead waters leap glad in the sun.
Meanwhile, shall we learn, in our ease, to forget
To the martyrs of Truth and of Freedom our debt?
Hide their words out of sight, like the garb that they wore,
And for Barclay's Apology offer one more?
Shall we fawn round the priestcraft that glutted the shears,
And festoon'd the stocks with our grandfathers' ears?
Talk of Woolman's unsoundness? count Penn heterodox,
And take Cotton Mather in place of George Fox?
Make our preachers war-chaplains? quote Scripture to take
The hunted slave back for Onesimus' sake?
Go to burning church-candles and chanting in choir,
And on the old meeting-house stick up a spire?
No! the old paths we'll keep until better are shown,
Credit good where we find it, abroad or our own;
And while 'Lo here!' and 'Lo there!' the multitude call,
Be true to ourselves, and do justice to all!
The good round about us we need not refuse,
Nor talk of our Zion as if we were Jews:
But why shirk the badge which our fathers have worn,
Or beg the world's pardon for having been born?
We need not pray over the Pharisee's prayer,
Nor claim that our wisdom is Benjamin's share;
Truth to us and to others is equal and one:
Shall we bottle the free air, or hoard up the sun?
Well know we our birthright may serve but to show
How the meanest of weeds in the richest soil grow;
But we need not disparage the good which we gold!
Though the vessels be earthen, the treasure is gold!
Enough and too much of the sect and the name:
What matters our label, so truth be <illegible>
The creed may be wrong, but the life may be true,
And hearts beat the same under drab coats or blue.
So the man be a man, let him worship at will,
In Jerusalem's courts, or on Gerizim's hill!
When she makes up her jewels, what cares yon good town
For the Baptist of WAYLAND, the Quaker of BROWN?:
And this green, favored island, so fresh and sea-blown,
When she counts up the worthies her annals have known,
Never waits for the pitiful gaugers of sect 
To measure her love, and mete out her respect.
<c02>
Three shades at this moment seem walking her strand.,
Each with head halo-crowned, and with palms in his hand:
Wise Berkley, grave Hopkins, and, smiling serene 
On prelate and puritan, Channing is seen.
One holy name bearing, no longer they need 
Credentials of party, and pass-words of creed;
The new song they sing hath a three-fold accord,
And they own one baptism, one faith, and one Lord! 
But the golden sands lessen! Occasions like these
Glide swift into shadow, like sails on the seas;
While we sport with the mosses and pebbles ashore,
They lessen and fade, and we see them no more.
Forgive me, dear friends, if my vagrant thoughts seem
Like a school-boy's, who idles and plays with his theme;
Forgive the light measure, whose changes display
The sunshine and rain of our brief April day.
There are moments in life when the lip and the eye
Try the question of whether to smile or to cry;
And scenes and re-unions that prompt like our own,
The tender in feeling, the playful in tone.
I, who never sat down with the boys and the girls,
With your Austins and Slocumbs, your Cartlands and Earles,
By courtesy only permitted to lay
On your festival's altar my poor gift to-day—
I would joy in your joy; let me have a friend's part, 
In the warmth of your welcome of hand and of heart;
On your play-ground of boyhood unbend the brow's, care.,
And shift the old burdens our shoulders must bear. 
Long live the good school! giving out, year by year,
Recruits to true manhood, and womanhood dear;
Brave boys, modest maidens, in beauty sent forth,
The living epistles and proofs of its worth!
In and out let the young life as steadily flow 
As in the broad Narragansett the tides come and go;
And its sons and its daughters, in prairie and town, 
Remember its honor, and guard its renown. 
Not vainly the gift of its Founder was made;
Not prayerless the stones of its corner were laid:
The blessing of him whom in secret they sought,
Has owned the good work which the fathers have wrought.
To Him be the glory forever!—we bear
To the Lord of the harvest our wheat with the tare.
What we lack in our work may He find in our will,
And winnow in mercy the good from the ill!

THE LIBERATOR.
CRITICISM ON NON-RESISTANCE, AND REJOINDER.
Having read the remarks of my friend Dr. Mann, making exceptions to my plea for Non-Resistance in the Liberator of April 6th, I append to his article what I have to say by way of reply.—C. K. W. 
DR. MANN'S LETTER. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON—I have read carefully Mr. Whipple's essay upon the Non-Resistance principle. I admire its clearness, its elevation of sentiment, its fidelity to principle. I doubt not that it will promote the essential aim of the writer, by imparting more confidence in the power of love to overcome evil, and am glad to have provoked him to the good work of writing it. 
Still, I think Mr. W. fails, as all argument must fail, to prove the unlawfulness of resisting extreme cases (1) of wrong by whatsoever violence may be necessary to repel it. I agree with Mr. W. that we are justly limited in self-defence, as in all transactions, to the use of means that are right, and that no exigency can justify us in violating our settled convictions; and this is true;? whether our convictions be founded on truth or error. A Sabbatarian, who believes that God requires abstinence from labor on the seventh or on the first day of the week, or the Baptist who believes immersion a Christian obligation, or a Catholic who believes it a sin to eat flesh on Friday, or a Non -Resistant who believes it better to be murdered than to kill the murderer, are all equally bound to obey their honest convictions. But I, who believe none of these things, am not bound by those rules, until they shall be shown to be universally (2) obligatory. I am indeed bound to use my best diligence to examine the reason of those principles which gain the assent of any respectable portion of the world, and if, through negligence or perverseness, or even from lack of capacity, I fail to find the right way, I must suffer the consequences, until I shall learn wisdom from experience. At present, I can only follow the light which my limited vision allows me to reach. I agree with Mr. W. in choosing Christianity as my rule of life, ' because it is the best that I can find or conceive of.' (3) 
(1.) When the right rule in morals is once established, it avails nothing to plead that a case of the class described and contemplated by it is an 'extreme case.' The rule was made for all cases of that sort, the greater as well as the less. The thief is not excused on account of his 'extreme case,' the coincidence of great destitution on his part with the chance of stealing a larger sum than ever fell in his way before, great enough to enable him to leave off stealing and commence an honest life! This is not the right way to commence an honest life. If honesty is the right rule, it must control one's relation to a hundred thousand dollars not less stringently than to half-a-dollar. 
(2.) I am not a legislator, but a subject, under God's government. I, therefore, do not pretend to decide what is 'universally obligatory.' All I can do is to strive for conformity in my own heart and life to the rule which I recognize as right and best; and, as far as possible, to help others to recognition of the same rule, adoption of it as their rule, and unflinching obedience to it. But when an intelligent person adopts this as his rule, I expect him to adhere to it. If this is the best rule on the whole, let it be used in every individual case, and thus have a chance to show itself the best on the whole. When we are speaking of a rule of morals, it is absurd to say that though it is right and best in the great majority of cases, the very opposite rule will be right and best in ' extreme cases.' 
A rule is established as my rule, by my perception of its rectitude. I pretend not to claim for it the allegiance of those who do not see it to be right and best. My rule, as I have said in the article above-mentioned, is the law of love. To me it seems self-evident that this is the right method, and the best method, of overcoming the evils of the world. I know it always tends to overcome them; and my assurance of this is undiminished by the fact that it does not always succeed in overcoming them at once, or in a short specified time. God works by means, and it is obviously a part of his plan to allow and require time for those means to produce their natural result. While I use God's instruments, I am on his side, and I need not fear the result of trusting my permanent welfare to their use. On the other hand, I am equally assured that violence tends to beget violence, that injury excites to the infliction of counter injury; and that therefore this is not the best rule, nor a right rule, either for the whole of our lives or for any part of them. And this assurance is not shaken by the fact that violence on the right side sometimes overcomes violence on the wrong side. I admit that the temptation to use it in a particular instance—'just this once'—is sometimes very great. I believe, no less, that the use of injurious force, for an end however good, is always an error, a blunder. It is loss of faith. It is an assumption that God is to be helped by using the devil's weapons. 
(3.) My friend agrees with me in choosing Christianity, the law of love, as his rule. I must therefore hold him to it. It is now for him to show why he takes the responsibility of departing from his accepted rule, that which he recognizes as 'best' and acting, for a time, upon the very opposite rule, merely because of the occurrence, of ' an extreme case.' 
<c03>
But the principles of Christianity do not require a literal conformity (4) to the recorded words of Christ. No one supposes this. A faithful follower of Christ's system, in its substance and spirit, would not think it incumbent to offer his cheek to the smiter, or to go two miles when unjustly compelled to go one, or to give a cloak to the robber who has already stolen a coat. 'Resist not evil,' and ' take no thought for the morrow,' have a real meaning very different from their literal sense. Self-control, forgiveness, magnanimity, and confidence in divine protection, are what is meant. Every enlightened Christian understands this. Christianity, indeed, requires me to love my enemies, but it does not follow (5) that I must in no case kill, wound, or strike them,. I might be moved by Christian love to go among a tribe of cannibals, and devote my life to their reformation; but if, in the midst of my hopeful labors, one man, more incorrigible <illegible> more hungry than the others, should attempt to kill me, my duty to the others as well as to myself might compel me to slay him.(6)
'What,' says Mr. W., ' do the very thing which I censure in his conduct to me! Perpetrate a second wrong by way of redressing the first! Show that I am as ready to commit violence as he, when my supposed advantage requires it!' 
Mr. W. does not take into account how the different circumstances of myself and my assailant modify and decide the moral nature of our respective acts. I do not ' do the very thing' which I censure in him. He kills me unjustly, and from wrong motives. I kill him in just self-defence, and also in defence of justice. This makes it a very different thing. (7) I do not ' perpetrate a second wrong by way of redressing the first.' The man who receives a blow, fatal or otherwise, which his own unjust violence made necessary, receives no wrong, and therefore the man who gives it perpetrates no wrong. 
The wrong of the slave consists not in his violence, abstractly considered, but in the injustice of his violence (8)—in his invasion of the rights of another; but., if he kills in necessary defence of his own life, unjustly assailed by another, he does no wrong, since he invades no rights—for the murderer has no rights incompatible with another's right of self-defence.
Mr. W. asks, ' If the mere attempt [of the murderer] to kill me showed wickedness in him, what character does the actual killing him show in me?' I answer, it shows promptitude to prevent wickedness. Mr. W. does not make the proper distinction between the murderer's wicked attempt to kill, and the just man's righteous act of killing in necessary self-defence, and in defence of justice. To make this distinction is to answer the question. 
(4.) My friend here labors under a mistake. I have no where enjoined or recommended such literal conformity. Seeking always to adhere to the spirit of this rule, I have so far disregarded its letter as to have been censured there for by Non- Resistance brethren. The whole of my article, but especially the latter portion of it, will show that I have shown no slavish subservience to ' the letter.' I did not quote, nor rely upon, one of the passages of Scripture here referred to. 
(5.) I think it does follow! 
(6.) My friend here loses sight of the spirit of the rule as well as of its letter. He proposes to sacrifice one savage to the welfare of the rest; to kill one of them (when the 'extreme case' arises) lest he should be prevented from teaching the rest not to kill each other! He speaks of his duty to the other savages and to himself, and drops the welfare of the assailing savages quite out of sight, dropping at the same time his allegiance to the rule, (' the best that he can find or conceive of,') the law of love to the injurer—the overcoming of his evil with good to him! This particular savage is the very one whom the true missionary is most concerned not to leave out of sight. If they all need conversion and reformation, he needs it most. 
In the case supposed by Dr. Mann, the missionary, as far as the present emergency and the particular savage in question are concerned, lays aside his own rule and adopts the savage rule—the very one from which he proposes to convert the savages! This course seems to me at once a departure from duty and from wisdom. In so far as the missionary lays aside his rule and method of love, and adopts the savage rule and method, so far it seems to me he is faithless to his missionary work, and pulls down that which he had built. Such a missionary might as well have stayed at home. 
(7.) I admit that to kill a man from the hasty impulse of self-defence is a very different thing, in point of guilt, from killing him by a purposed and unprovoked assault. I have never said or thought otherwise. In both these cases, however, a man is violently killed. In this respect, the two deeds are the same, and each of them is a violation of the law of love. It was only in this view that I spoke" of the two acts as identical. To kill your assailant is not, in any sense, to overcome his evil with good. 
My friend here confounds things which I think he ought to distinguish. The circumstances, that he is acting 'in just self-defence, and also in defence of justice,' do not authorize him to kill the assailant! Retaliation is not an exercise of justice, but a departure from it. The man who receives a blow may have been entirely in the right, up to that point; but as soon as he returns the blow, (if the law of love, and the overcoming of evil with good, be the right rule of action.) he relinquishes his advantage, and puts himself also in the wrong. In his next sentence, my friend speaks of a blow which the unjust violence of the assailant ' made necessary.' There is no such necessity. This is one of the flimsy excuses, one of the self-contradictory, self-refuting forms of speech that we use to palliate our errors of conduct. The duellist is accustomed to say that, having been insulted, he has no alternative but to send a challenge; having been challenged, he has no alternative but to fight. The sooner we clear our minds of such cant as this, the sooner shall we be able to see things as they are. It has been well said that insults are like counterfeit money; any body may offer them, but no one is obliged to take them. It is always at our option to give blessing for cursing, and a benefit for a blow; and the wrong position of our antagonist does not make us right in treating him otherwise than by the law of love. 
(8.) I think it consists in both. The wish of the assailant to injure is one sin; his proceeding to actual injury is another sin; the person assailed may have been entirely in the right so far; but if he meets the injurer with acts inconsistent with love to him, if he returns the offered evil with anything but good, he puts himself also in the wrong. 
I think my friend's use of the word 'justice' in this, and the preceding, and some following paragraphs, shows some remaining traces of that vicious theology by which we were both misled in early life, and which still shows in the tree what inclination was forced upon the twig— I mean the habit of confounding vindictive retaliation with justice; of recognizing, as real and unquestionable types of justice, hell for sinners in the next world, and the gallows for murderers in this.
Surely the precepts of Jesus, so beautifully illustrated by his life, would have brought forth more fruit in the course of eighteen centuries, had they not been so systematically misinterpreted and perverted by the priesthood. 
Jesus showed the practical bearing of his own law of love when he said to Peter, in regard to a case of unjust assault, with murderous purpose—'Put up thy sword into the sheath!' If my friend insists upon using the sword, even to the death of the assailant— upon acting in direct opposition to this injunction and this example of Jesus—why does he represent himself as a follower of the law of love? Why does he not avow his preference for the Jewish retaliatory system which Jesus opposed?
<c04>
In such a case, the self-defence (and defence of justice) cannot be shown to have ' taken the responsibility of thrusting his brother from the sphere which God assigned him'—or, that he has 'rashly and wrongfully assumed an authority never committed to him'—or, that he has 'rebelled against God's rule, and demanded a better destiny than that afforded us in God's world, under his laws.' I assume that the man who prevents murder, by slaying the assailant, acts from a divine impulse. The power, and the will, and the moral instinct in behalf of justice, were given him by God for this very purpose. He is God's instrument. He does not 'invade the Power who placed us here, nor interfere with His decision how long he shall remain.' No one can do that. 
It is no fair argument against the admission that homicide may sometimes be justifiable, that some may take advantage of that admission to commit unjustifiable homicide. To decide ' where shall the line be drawn' may be difficult, but I am not to forego that which is a clear right and duty now, because a difference of circumstances would make the right and duty less clear. If the line be difficult to define, a conscientious man will be careful to keep off the doubtful ground, and only use his right in extreme and justifiable cases. But, when the apparently inevitable murder of himself, or family, or neighbor, can be obviated only by killing the murderer, he will not hesitate. A hundred anecdotes might illustrate cases of intentional homicide clearly justifiable. I select two, which also show that killing does not necessarly imply malice, but may be compatible with love. 
A man attempted to cross the Niagara river at a safe distance above the falls. He was accompanied by a neighbor who was partly intoxicated, and whom he was kindly endeavoring to take home to his family. In the middle of the stream, the intoxicated person insisted on possession of the oars, and by his obstinate interference the boat was rapidly swept towards the falls, into a position of the most imminent danger. The sober man, seeing no other chance of saving either of their lives, pushed the drunkard overboard, and then, by using his utmost efforts, was barely able to save himself. This was unquestionably a case of justifiable homicide. 
In an account of the Orkney islands, there is a story of a father and his two sons, who were let down by a rope over the brink of a precipice to gather the eggs which the sea-birds deposite in the crevices of the rocks. The father, who was below his sons, on looking upwards, saw that the rope was about to part near the brink, one of the strands being cut, and rapidly untwisting towards another defective part. Being unable to detach himself, he called to his son, next above him, to cut the rope below, and save himself and brother. 'But,' replied the son, ' the rope will not hold us two.' 'Then cut the rope above you, and let your brother be saved to comfort his mother.' The son did as directed, and, with his father, was dashed to pieces among the rocks a thousand feet below, while the other was drawn safely up. Here were suicide and parricide in the same act. But how clearly noble and right! 
I will add one more case, to me clearly justifiable, but which Mr. W. must, on his principle, condemn. In the ' Historical Collections of Ohio ' is an account of one of the first settlers, who, with his family, was surprised by a party of hostile Indians, who burned his dwelling, massacred his family, and reserved him to suffer death by torture. It was the plan of the party, also, to surprise and massacre other families in the vicinity; but, while on their way, the prisoner contrived to loosen his bonds, and kill two of the most active of his captors, and make good his escape. By his timely warning, his neighbors were put upon their guard, and the massacre of several families prevented. (9) 
From the first two of the above cases, I think Mr. W. must admit the possibility of justifiable homicide. So much admitted on the one hand, I am also ready to admit the difficulty of drawing a line to suit all cases. As a general rule, I should say that life should not be taken except in self-defence, where life, or something equally precious, cannot otherwise be protected. The defects of this rule must be supplied by each individual's best light. I would not kill a person to protect my property from depredation, or my person from blows not endangering life, but I should feel justified in saying myself or neighbor from death or slavery by means endangering the life of the aggressor. 
Perhaps, by sufficient diligence, an exact rule may be found or framed, applicable to all cases of the kind; but, when promulgated, it must be demonstrated to be the right one, before its authority can be acknowledged. In the mean time, Mr. W's rule gains no strength from the insufficiency of other rules, till his is demonstrated to be the right one. 
This, Mr. W. has not even attempted to do. He has shown the beauty, the sublimity, and, in some sense, the expediency and excellency of the non-resistance principle; but he has not demonstrated its claim of inherent authority, nor sufficiently obviated the grave objections to its practical application in those cases where extreme wrong can be repelled only by smiting down the offender. 
It is remarkable that the essay to which I refer assumes as a settled principle the inviolability of human life. This is the very assertion for which proof is demanded. To assume it as a self-evident truth is to beg the whole question. Having taken this ground, the author proceeds to prove, by extensive argument, what no one can seriously deny, that no exigency can justify the violation of an inviolable principle. He should first have proved his principle inviolable, and this conclusively. It is not enough to say that ' the claim of a right to take the life of a man becomes preposterous in view of the fact that God gave him his life, and that the taking of it by another is a pre-sumptuous interference with God's power and prerogative.' God also gave to man his liberty, and the right to possess the avails of his industry, but Mr. W. does not deny the right to restrain a violent man's liberty, or to take from him the sword which he has forged for murder. Life possesses no peculiar sanctity or inviolability because God gave it, for God gave us all that we possess. 
The only claim to superior consideration for human life above other possessions is because of its superior value to most possessions. But mere life is not the highest even of worldly possessions. Property, or reputation, is to many of more value. Many people value liberty more than life. For myself, I should think the liberty of two or three slaves cheaply purchased by the death of one kidnapper. 
I think that Christ did not consider this mortal life of ours a matter of such great value and sanctity,. (10) for he did not inculcate extreme care for it, but rather the contrary. If life be a matter of paramount value and sacredness, our own lives are so, equally with others', and should therefore never be put in peril; but Christ avowedly put his own life and the lives of his followers in peril, and when he forbade the use of the sword in defence, he gave a reason of expediency, and not of principle.
(9.) My friend's three cases are adapted strongly to impress the feelings, and would avail him much if the matter were to be settled by feeling. Since, however, it is to be settled by reference to a law, the law of love to the enemy and injurer, requiring the return of good for his evil, (a law, be it observed, to which we both have declared our allegiance,) his decision in regard to the first and third of those cases shows only his own unfaithfulness to his rule. (The second case is of an entirely different sort, a case of mutual consent, with no opposition of feeling.) 
(10.) In all this discussion, I have insisted less on the value and sanctity of bodily life, than on the duty of guiding our conduct by the law of love.
<c05>
Mr. W. fortifies his argument by the consideration of consequences, and asks, 'What says the voice of history?' To me, the voice of history answers, trumpet tongued, against his theory. All nations who have enjoyed liberty have purchased it with blood. Tyrants have never yielded to any argument but the sword. The blacks of Hayti and Santa Cruz took up arms, and are free. Those of Virginia are non-resistants, and are slaves. Let them adopt Mr. Whipple's plan, and refuse either to work or to fight, and they would be made dogs' meat and carrion; but, let every tenth man among them become a Nat Turner, or a Ben Blacksmith, and like them beat out their oversers' brains, and lift up the standard of freedom, and a nation would be born in a day—at cheap cost. The repeated assassin demonstrations by Southerners in Congress would cease, if Northern members had the pluck to combine, and give notice that the next outrage should be retaliated. 
Briefly, to sum up—I admit the obligation, in accomplishing right ends, to use only right means, but I insist that it is right to protect the life of the innocent by sacrificing, if necessary, the life of the aggressor. (11) 
I admit the excellency and perfection of Christ's doctrine, but I deny that, fairly interpreted, it teaches non-resistance. 
I admit the obligation to love our neighbor as ourselves, but say that this is compatible with killing, him, to prevent his doing worse injury. I would (or should) kill myself, if by that means only I could avoid killing the innocent—(for instance, if about to fall into a fit of canine madness in the presence of unprotected children, or it in the situation of the Orkney Islander.) 
I admit the sacredness of human life, and that it should not be taken, even from the guilty aggressor, except where the lives or equally essential interests of others absolutely require it. But the life or liberty or chastity of the innocent should be effectually protected, and, if need be, by the destruction of the offender. 
I admit the danger of making unguarded concessions to the spirit of violence, and the difficulty of making safe rules applicable to all cases. But this danger and difficulty no more forbid fighting in a clear cause, than the danger of avarice forbids a wise frugality. 
I admit the obligation of every one to live up to the rule which his faith or his reason accepts as inviolable; but I deny the obligation of others to obey that rule until it can be proved of divine authority, or otherwise obligatory on all. 
I assert that the attempt of an unjust aggressor to kill me, shows great wickedness in him; but the actual killing of him in necessary self-defence (and defence of justice) is not wicked. 
I assert that life, although the gift of God, is not therefore any more inviolable and inalienable than any other of his gifts, except in proportion to its value. It is in our power to alienate and forfeit all the gifts of God—except his love and our immortality. 
I assert that the ' voice of history' proves the wisdom of resistance to tyranny, even unto blood; and, reasoning from the past, I would not advise the slaves to more non-obedience and non-resistance, but to bloody blows, till their freedom shall be secured. In such a struggle, as in every other attitude of their cause, the slaves shall have my sympathy, and, so far as I can, my help. DANIEL MANN. 
Painesville, (O.) May 8, 1860.
(11.) My friend cannot possibly occupy a position and its opposite at the same moment. If he chooses to take the life of the aggressor, he must violate the rule of love to the aggressor, and of overcoming his evil with good.—C. K. W. 
THE 'SACRIFICE' OF WM. H. SEWARD.
The recent defeat of Gov. Seward at Chicago—a surprise to all, and a stunning disappointment to his especial admirers and friends—must be a source of deep and bitter mortification to himself. His nomination had been long and quite generally expected. His was the most prominent name of any before the country, within the ranks of the Republican party. He had been identified from the beginning with its interests, and had come to be recognized as the almost authoritative expounder of its views and principles. And his claims were urgently pressed before the Convention by a strong array of ardent and determined friends, and with such indications of success, that, almost up to the last moment, his nomination was accounted by them a certainty. 
Mr. Seward's own expectations were hardly less sanguine. He had played hard for the stake, and it now seemed fairly won. He had recently made the largest bid it seemed possible to offer, and how could he well fail of the prize? In anticipation of the auspicious result, he had retired, for the time being, from the public eye, and was now awaiting in his quiet domestic retreat at Auburn the announcement. But after all, singularly enough, the choice fell upon another, and ' the distinguished son of New York' was thrust aside to make way for a more favored rival.
But this defeat—must we not pronounce it, to borrow the Senator's own words, employed in reference to the execution of noble John Brown and his associates, 'necessary and just'? For Wm. H. Seward had also been sacrificing to ' the obscene god.' The gilded bauble of the presidency of these States had filled his eye, and covered from view all else beside. Wielding talents far beyond the possession of most men, and having these enriched by a broad and varied culture, gifted with a rare range of vision, and a striking felicity of statement, able always to charm with his brilliant generalizations and polished utterances, stirred moreover, ofttimes, with humane impulses and rising to some lofty word for freedom, he has yet laid all upon the altar of his ambition. Eloquent on set occasions for ' the rights of human nature,' he has ever ignored those rights in the person of the American slave. 
Of late, especially, his subserviency has seemed to reach its utmost culmination. Since his return from Europe, he has omitted no opportunity to testify his loyalty to slavery as against all who seek its over-throw. To the high-handed measures employed by the Senate for hunting down and crushing out the friends of John Brown, he has given unhesitating support. He has recorded his vote promptly for the seizure of John Brown, Jr., Redpath, Sanborn, and Hyatt. 
In his memorable speech of February last— a speech distinguished throughout for its cold heartlessness, its solemn cant, its adroit, Jesuitical tergiversations and concealments—he licks the very dust in adoration of the American Union, glorifies Clay and Webster for their subserviency to its demands, as evinced in their support of the Compromise measures of 1850, including the infamous Fugitive Slave bill; commends the Republican party as ' the white man's party,' more than intimating its entire assent to the atrocious dogma that ' black men have no rights which white men are bound to respect,' flouts the sacred memory of John Brown, and pledges to the slave States, whose exactions and outrages he touches upon only in the careful, choice language of euphemism, the full support and protection of the Republican party against any who may interfere for the subversion of slavery. Could sycophancy stoop lower, or venality crawl farther, certainly while affecting any vestige of decency or self-respect? 
What lover of Truth and Justice may regret, that whoever else is nominated, he is not, who could thus trifle with conviction, and trample on duty?—who could forswear his own soul and offer up his manhood for advantage? —who could deliberately insult the ashes of the heroes of Harper's Ferry, and utter his benediction upon their murderers?—who could turn his back upon Thaddeus Hyatt, leaving him to perisl.
<c06>
in a Washington jail, the chosen victim of senatorial malignity? How should he not expect treachery, even at the hands of his associates, who proves trait to human nature?
Not that the Republican party occupies, in its relation to freedom, any truer attitude than does Wm. H. Seward. Far from it. The plane upon which its members stand is hardly so high as his. They, with him, are idolators of the same faith and observance, bowing down all together before the pitiful idol of availability. As is the wont with idolators, when it suits their purposes, they fall upon and devour each other. For the sake of his own personal success, Mr. Seward offered up his priceless birthright, and the party in turn, for the sake of its success, <illegible> him upon the same altar. Under the sterns Nemesis that presides in all the affairs of this world, following all wrong-doers along whatever path, bad men are often made the instruments of retribution, upon each other. 'Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but it is in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few.'
Nor is the Republican party to be charged as guilty of any new or unwonted dereliction from principle, in this desertion of their time-honored leader, as some of the prominent names in it, warm friends of Mr. Seward, are disposed to aver. Whatever its infidelity, it has not, in this matter, acted inconsistently with itself. That party is constitutionally, and from its birth, a vacillating, truckling, time-serving party. It was conceived in timidity, and brought forth in compromise, and it has never drawn the first breath in any other air. False at the outset to human nature true, ignoring the despised black man, it has no reason in its code of ethics for refusing to sacrifice any white man, even though he should be the most gifted and worthy name in its ranks, for its own party objects. Let no one who worships in this cannibal temple complain. 
Prospectively, too, the friends of Freedom have nothing to regret in this defeat. Probably there is no man in our country to-day, of such capacity for injury, so well able to bewilder and bewitch, to stultify and seduce, to debauch the conscience of the nation, and hinder the day of its deliverance, as Wm. H. Seward. His magnetic manner, his specious argumentation, his apparent elevation and catholic breadth, the prestige of his name, his wide reputation for statesmanship, sagacity, skill, all are made to contribute to this end. He is the Jesuit of our American politics. Where he speaks there is incantation, where he breathes there is subtle poison.
Mr. Lincoln may be by natural gift much less of a man, in character much less of 'a progressive.' With whatever impulses towards humanity, he must of course be powerless enough upon a platform that does abject worship to the Union and the Slave Power of this country; a platform that, ominously silent as it is upon the Dred Scott decision, the Fugitive Slave bill, and the prospective multiplication of slave States, is yet stupidly emphatic in proclaiming the supreme rights of the States over 'their own domestic institutions,' and in pronouncing its curse and threat upon any who may presume to interpose in behalf of their crushed victims. Mr. Lincoln's administration, in the event of his election, may be an imbecility-may be a malignity; but it is hardly possible that its cowardice, corruptions and betrayals should be so speciously masked, so artfully baptized into the sacred name of Philanthropy, Integrity and Virtue, as in the case of Mr. Seward's elevation would be sure to happen. CHARLES D. B. MILLS.
Syracuse, May 31, 1860.

CARPETING
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
NEW Edition of a Great Work.
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
'A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.'
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, ' I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.'
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
May 11. 2mos
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN,. L.L.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has not hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties, visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16fth BOSTON, MASS.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington St., and 20 West where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Boston, May 1, 1860.
