THE LIBERATOR
IN PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT THE 
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per <Illegible> in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Messachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, Viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 49. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1859.WHOLE NUMBER, 1510.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the N.Y. Observer.
THE NEW YORK PULPIT ON THE HARPER'S FERRY INVASION.
On Thursday last, the day of public Thanksgiving, many of the clergy of this city took the opportunity of expressing their sentiments freely on the subject of the recent disturbance of the public peace by the invasion of a neighboring State. It was fitting to embrace this occasion for such a purpose. Among the numerous causes for national Thanksgiving, not the least and one of the greatest is, that a foul conspiracy, designed to plunge the country into the horrors of civil war, has been detected, its chief participators arrested, and all the immediate actors put to death or held in the firm grasp of justice. For this, every Christian patriot gives God thanks out of the depths of his heart. Had the conspiracy gained the eclat expected by its infamous authors, instead of a Thanksgiving, we should already have had the country in arms, and many portions of it drenched in servile or fraternal blood. It was this fact that moved the pastors of this and other cities to make the day an occasion for giving utterance to their sentiments on this momentous theme.
There is a sense in which the pulpit may be truly said to reflect the sentiments of the people. Our city congregations, more than those in the country, are formed on the principles of elective affinity; each church is more homogeneous than in places where there is but one of each Christian denomination; and it is the happiness of our churches, if a man does not find in the pulpit the doctrines he likes, he can suit himself elsewhere. Thus it comes to pass that our pulpits and pews are of one mind on all the great questions that stir the heart of the age.
Of the five hundred pulpits of this city, we believe that not five uttered a word of approbation of the John Brown invasion of Virginia. We do not speak with positive knowledge of any great number; but we know that the radical pulpit is the noisiest, and runs the most readily into the newspapers; that the sympathizors with the conspiracy are blatant in their denunciations of the law that has the murderers in its righteous hands. And it is probable that the most of those who prostituted the pulpit and the sanctuary to the defence and encouragement of crime, have been chronicled among the 'men of the times, 'the' champions of equal rights, 'and the 'defenders of liberty.'
Of the five hundred preachers in this city, we have heard of but TWO who ventured to give the sanction of their pulpits to the support of the highest crime perpetrated in this country since the treason of Benedict Arnold. One of these preachers, of course, was the man who curses from 'Union Square, and the other is still so obscure that we will not give him the notoriety he would be glad to get by a notice in the newspapers. On the other hand, we hear from a large number of the most commanding, influential, popular and intelligent pulpits of this city, that they bore explicit, uniform, earnest and unanimous testimony against the conspiracy in all its features, designs, plans and acts; and with one voice they consented to the sentence of death pronounced upon the conspirators as just and necessary. Whatever may be the difference of opinion as to the policy or expediency of executing the sentence, there is but one opinion among Christian patriots, that these convicted men deserve to die, according to the laws of God and man. The Rev. Dr. Osgood (Unitarian) said:-
'If I am asked more particulary what I think of the recent attempt to excite a servile insurrection in Virginia, I reply that I condemn it altogether, and that no sophism can be feebler than that which justifies the deed on account of worthy personal traits in the originator. The deed is lawless and murderous.'
The Rev. Dr. Parker (Presbyterian) in connection with some remarks from which we dissent, said of the invaders:-
'They have nevertheless so violated those human laws which are indispensable to preserve States from anarchy, as to render themselves justly liable to the penalty of death.'
Rev. Dr.Tyng, (Episcopalian,) with strong denunciations of slavery, protested against the violence of fanaticism. He said:-
'As Christian, it was not his duty to make it the subject of acerbity or denunciation, or ribaldrous reproach. As an American citizen, he had no right to encourage sectional animosity. He would not do evil that good might come-he would not violate the peace of God and man-would never give his sanction to any violence or tumult, would take no sword but the sword of the Spirit. And he could no more justify in others than in himself a violence and bloodshed from which his soul shrank back in abhorrence. He could not be a partaker in other men's sins, even if the object was to give liberty to his enslaved fellow-man. The day will come when the patient sufferer of wrong will be better than the wrong-doer. Meanwhile, they that take the sword must perish by the sword.'
Rev. Dr. Potts, (Presbyterian,) whose views we have given at greater length in this paper, declared that he regarded the execution of the conspirators' a just and necessary penalty.'
We have been thus particular in summing up the opinions of the metropolitan pulpit, that we may show the country the Christian sentiment of this city. It is a fairer, fuller, and more satisfactory expression of feeling than it would be possible to gather from any promiscuous assemblage that might be gathered, however large and respectable. We now know there is not a handful of men in the North so base as to approve of the John Brown conspiracy and invasion. We have thought in might be well to hold public meetings all over the land, to give utterance to the indignation with which the crime is reprobated, but we find no pulpits and no presses entitled to respect which justify it, and we may consider the Thanksgiving sermons of New York as the united testimony of the intelligent Christian people of the North in favor of the Union, the law and the right.
Instead of fearing that the chief conspirator will be deified, or even exalted to the rank of a martyr the day is not distant, and even now is, when every upright, virtuous citizen of these United States who is not blinded by fanaticism, will regard him and his coadjutors as convicted traitors, whose designs were baffled by the good Providence of God.
CLERICAL ADMIRERS OF OLD BROWN, THE MURDERER.
Rev. Rollin H. Neals, who opened the Brown relief meeting in Tremont Temple by praying 'especially for him (Old Brown, the murderer) who has to extensively excited the public sympathy and apprabation,' preached for Dr. Murdock, at the Bow Square Baptist Church, on Thanksgiving Day. Although there was no service at his own church, Dr. Neale' delivered a short and highly appropriate sermon upon the relationship of families, it seems that the reverend gentlemen only 'about half filled the body of the house. 'So much for making
<c02>
sensation prayers, approving of Old Brown's rascalities, simply to please such men as Emerson, Phillips, & Co. This speaks well for the good sense of Dr. Neate's and Dr. Murdock's societies. Let the abolition agitators talk to hare walls. Dr. Neale is backed, in his 'admiration' of Old Brown, by Rev. A. L. Stone, of Park Street Church. Indeed, quite a number of the reverend clergy who preach within a quarter of a mile of the Music Hall now seem to take their key-notes from Theodore Parker, and are doing his work for him during his absence in Europe. If Mr. Parker does not return soon, he will find that the Neales, Mannings, A. L. Stones, and Belchers have decoyed his whole congregation into their pews. Rev. Mr. Stone preached in this wise on Thanksgiving Day about Old Brown:-
"Well nigh every voice, North or South, that names the staunch old veteran, names him with respect and admiration. 'Folly, and insanity, and wickedness'! Yes, we can all say so now. At least we can pronounce upon the folly and insanity. But in sifting the motives of that heart that lead the way its simplicity, its honesty, its piety-I mean what I am saying, and believe it, too-its piety, its utter absence of revengefulness, malignity, ferocity and passion; for one, judging the man, and not the act, I cannot call it wickedness.'
A reverend minister of Christ endorsing the 'piety' of a convicted murderer! It is superfluous to comment upon such profanity.
Rev. Mr. Miner, of the School Street Universalist; Society, also defended at length the murderous foray of Brown, denominating him an 'old hero,' &c.
Last, and perhaps least, comes Rev. Mr. Belcher, of Baldwin Place. With visions of what he called a 'groaning board,' which was to greet each one of his hearers after meeting, the reverend agitator was bound to 'thank God' for everything-even that Old Brown is going to be hung! He 'bust out' at the start, thus:-
'No man in the North, said the speaker, ought any longer to keep silence, when Northern men are to be subject to the hangman for the sake of a principle. John Brown will undoubtedly be hung. 'Tis well, He headed insurrection, and became accountable for bloodshed, and must be hung. 'Tis well, I repeat, Tis better than that he should live. Should I live unto the day, I will thank God for the hanging of John Brown. I believe that God has wisely permitted the movement, and furthermore, that on the day that man is hung, the whole system of slavery-that sum of human villainy-will receive so fatal a stab, that it will never recover. Therein I rejoice­yea, I will rejoice-seeing in it the progress of human freedom. For this reason I shall thank God for the hanging of John Brown. There must be a martyr to truth, and each one that falls is a bountiful spring shower upon the buried seed.
Yea, the reverend gentleman is bound to rejoice, even with exceeding great joy! Therein he rejoices-yes, he will rejoice-even in the hanging of old Brown, and while his brother abolitionists toll the bells, drape themselves in sackcloth, and dust themselves with ashes on the second of December. 'Tis well'! This pastor has already sounded his horn, and made his part of the noise. 'Tis better' there should be one mourner less on that occasion. A couple of 'martyrs to truth' is one better than only one. Why can't Mr. Belcher head another Harper's Ferry invasion, and fall 'as a bountiful spring shower on the buried seed'?
THE AFFIDAVITS.
Referring to the numerous affidavits procured by Mr. Hoyt, in Ohio, to show that insanity is a hereditary disease in John Brown's circle of relationship, the Boston Post says:-
If our readers will peruse these affidavits with care, and analyze their statements of the description of Brown, we think they will agree with us in saying, that in this relation they do but describe an Abolitionist of the Wendell Phillips, Emerson and Manning school. They do but make a portrait of a furious Abolitionist, a person whose like can be found in quantities in New England, New York, and the Northwest. Boston is crowded with them. They write for newspapers; they preach sermons; they declaim in magazines; they print books; they get up abolition fairs, and abolition meetings generally. They babble about the superiority of the North over the South; they talk about Massachusetts in the revolution, as though she carried upon her shoulders all the labor, toil, honor and glory of the war of independence; they stupidly believe that New England would be just as prosperous without the Union as with it. They talk about rebellion to law as a virtue, and think obedience a mark of servility. We make and print extracts from these affidavits, which describe what the affiants deem the moral and intellectual qualities of Brown, and it is curious to observe how perfectly these statements of men in Ohio depict the characteristics of men in Massachusetts who make up the Abolition party of this State, and who inspire and lead in the aggressions upon the South of the Republican party. It is difficult to believe that very many of our fellow-citizens in Boston did not sit for the portrait. Baldwin, one of the affiants, says Brown has 'rigid integrity, and an ardent temperament.'
The gist of all these affidavits in relation to Brown, when carefully analyzed, will be found to consist in affirming him to be a man of integrity of character, of mild disposition, but frnatic, furious, incapable of reasoning himself, and impatient of reason in others, on the subject of slavery. The fact that he is mild and reasonable upon most subjects, but ferocious and unreasonable upon the subject of slavery, is urged as a reason why he should be considered a subject for the clemency of Governor Wise. Cannot that be said of very many, if not most, of the Abolitionists of the North? Could we not well enough make oath that Wendell Phillips or Ralph Waldo Emerson were men of integrity and honesty insomuch as they never committed forgery, or committed larceny of any thing recognized as property in Massachusetts? Could we not say that they are Christians, if extinction of human slavery at any hazard to bond and free is Christianity? Could we not depose that they were mild, sensible and judicious upon most subjects, but furiously mad in respect to the constitutional relation of the white and black races in the South? In a word, can we not predicate, word for word, of nearly every Abolitionist among us, just what is predicated in the affidavits of John Brown?
And yet it is gravely assumed that these qualities, these manifestations, make a man insane, and absolve him from moral or legal responsibility! These men in the North who inspire this insane warfare upon the South, who make the brain and heart of the Republican party, are now pronounced bereft of reason, and confirmed lunatics. Is it not so? It John Brown is a madman, then are not the men in Massachusetts, who answer to the description in these affidavits, madmen? If Gov. Wise pardons him, then must he not pardon all the Abolitionists who, like Brown, 'are incapable of reasoning on the subject of slavery,' and make attempt to 'steal or coax away from Virginia niggers?' John Brown may be a lunatic, but if these affidavits set forth correctly why, he is a lunatic, and the acts which make him one, then one-fourth of the 
<c03>
people of Massachusetts are madmen, and three­fourths of all the so-called ministers of religion! If John Brown is mad, for reasons depicted in these affidavits, then a majority of the Republican politicians in this Commonwealth are either madmen or knaves.
RED-THROATED REBELLION.
The people of Virginia have already begun to hold county meetings to provide means of peaceful retaliation upon this mad and meddlesome action of the majority of the North, who inspire men to murder their citizens and steal their negroes. Where is it all to end? The North is in the wrong.
They of the Republican majority are the aggressors. They are the oppressive majority. They have set on foot the robbery, the murder, the treason. The conservative minority are not in fault. The Democrats of the North are not in fault. The awful responsibility is not theirs. More than all, the Democrats of New England, so far from being in the wrong, intend to live under this Constitution, maintain this Union, and protect Southern rights and Southern men; and they will do it, if need be, with arms in their hands. Whenever the contest comes between the South and Republican fanaticism, the Democrats of the North will be with the South. Whenever the fanatics arm to tight the South, that instant will they find a foe in New England, in men who will live under this Constitution, and will live in Union with the South. Wendell Phillips and his Republican cohorts will never get out of New England to fight anybody.-They will rather at the point of the bayonet be driven into the sea by the outraged men who love the Union and cherish the memories of the revolution.
Thus it is that we do not despair of the Union, though we do fear cessation, for a time, of our peaceful prosperity. We fear a pause in our career of commercial greatness. We fear acts of retaliation which will seriously damage our fishing, shipping and manufacturing interests. We fear, more than all, detriment to the reputation of our business men for public honor, public faith, and patriotic devotion to the common weal. Therefore, if there he a conservative, a patriot element among us, let it come out and speak before it be too late! Let us have a public meeting which will reassure the men of the South that we will stand between them and red-throated rebellion!-Boston Post.
There were twelve hundred thousand votes cast for Mr. Buchanan in the free slave States-a large body for the Abolitionists to subdue before they can conquer the slave States.-Boston Post.
Does the Boston that whilom idolized Daniel Webster for his devotion to the CONSTITUTION, now accept the words of its fanatical clergymen and of its unscrupulous political demagogues, as its real sentiment as to downright treason? Have its merchants, its manufacturers, its professional walks fallen so low as to allow the shallow stuff apologetic of treason and murder, absolutely contemptible in point of constitutional law, to pass for their deliberate sentiment on the solemn events of the day? Have the intellect and patriotism got down to so low a state as this? There is no use in calling a spade anything but a spade; thus far the public expression of Boston, as to the Harper's Ferry tragedy, as uttered by those who have assumed to speak for it, has been as worthless a mess as ever insulted common sense and common intelligence. Is this really to go for Boston sentiment on John Brown?
We well know what, in private talk, those who could speak worthily for Boston, we mean its intelligent business men, say to all this. They indignantly deny that either John A. Andrew, the American Republican leader, or the clerical politicians in their desecrated rostrums, think their thought or utter their voice; and claiming still to hold on to the national sentiments uttered by Webster and Clay, they profess not only to 'abhor' the treason of John Brown, but the treason of the personal liberty bill, of the removal of Loring, of the whole of the ultraism of the ultra men who would let the Union slide. This is what such men are accustomed to say; and at times they will back up their say by a full rounded oath against the misguided fanatics who are rushing on as fair a country as the sun shines upon, to the dark abyss of civil war.
But, we appeal to such men, what do these individual protests, however earnest, amount to? Have they a whit stayed back the Abolition tide? Is there the power of a straw in them? Is it not a general law, that opinion, to be a working power, must have the adjuncts of organization and discipline? that there must be joint action in the minds who hold views in common, if they would make them felt? It is such action only as will give efficacy to those who, amidst the present lamentable perversion, still hold to the Constitution, and sustain it.Let men who talk thus but resolve to declare themselves independent of the ultra men, in every political way, on every political occasion, and they will do their duty. Let them unite to give expression to their views, and let this expression disown and indignantly reject the traitorous sentiment of the Abolitionists; and Boston would ones more resume the old patriotism; the fanatics and demagogues would then know where they were; and those among us who would endorse treason and disunion might be looked on, so feeble would they be, as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated when reason is left free to combat it.
We see no other power, save the Democratic party, that can be relied upon to stay the ruin that threatens our country; bat if others cannot see their path of duty to act in this way, then let them, in this free country, choose another way. But a declaration of independence from the ultra leaders, the carriers on of the war against the Constitution, the authors of personal liberty bills, the removal of Judge for executing the laws, and the endorsers of Brown treason, is due to the consistency, the honor, the patriotism of the men of Boston who mean to uphold the Constitution of their country.-Boston Post.
A PUBLIC MEETING. The recent attempts of bold and bad men in Tremont Temple and elsewhere, to assume to speak the public sentiment of Massachusetts upon the great question which now stirs the Union-loving hearts throughout the republic, has aroused patriotic men in Boston to the determination to rid themselves and our noble city of the infamy which fanaticism is seeking to fasten upon them. The impromptu gathering at the Tremont House last evening was worthy of the best days of Boston. It was determined by those who are among our most eminent merchants and citizens, with eager unanimity, to invite the patriotism of Massachusetts to assemble in this city at an early day to take steps to express the devotion of the Bay State to all the requirements of the Constitution, and to denounce the impudent fanaticism which is now hurrying us to untold woe. The proposed gathering cannot fail to be most potential in every sense. Let every loyal citizen give it his cordial aid! More especially do we call upon Democrats to come from all sections of the Commonwealth, and attest anew their 'sacred maintenance of the common bond, and true devotion to the common brotherhood.'-Boston Post.
<c04>
THE UNION AND THE CONSTITUTION. 
An internal meeting of many of our leading citizens we held at the Tremont House, last evening, make arrangements for an assembly at Faneuil Hall, some day next week, to express their views upon public affairs. The feeling was one of entire unanimity in regard to the propriety of anew declaring their devotion to the Union and Constitution, and disapprobation of recent outrages at the South, and especially of fanatical demonstrations at home. We have no doubt that such a meeting will be held as has seldom, if ever, come together in this Common wealth, and one which will tend not only to reassure our brethren in other parts of the country, but also to promote a far better state of feeling amongst ourselves. We need nothing but a concentration of the patriotic sentiment widely diffused among the people of Massachusetts, to enable it to exercise the most salutary influence.-Boston Courier
The New York Journal of Commerce says that the following incendiary hand-bill was received, a few days since, by a highly respectable citizen, an American by birth, a patriot and a Christian, to whom it was addressed through the Post-Office. The envelope was post-marked Montgomery, Alabama, Nov­25. The carrier who delivered it remarked to our informant that he had several others of the same appearance, addressed to other persons in his beat. It is probable that a large number of the same have been forwarded to different places at the North and West.'
[CONFIDENTIAL.]
TO THE IRISH FRIENDS OF THE SOUTH, 
In the Northern Cities.
FELLOW-CITIZENS:-You who have always been true to the Constitution and the South-who have never degraded yourselves to the level of the African race, as the dirty Free-Soilers do-you are aware that the borders of Virginia have boon profaned by the tread of the Free-Soil assassin. The South looks to its Irish friends in the large free cities to effect a diversion in its favor, and for this purpose the United Constitutional Irish Association has been formed, of which some of you are (and doubtless all will be) members. In the great cities, prominent Free-Soilers and Abolitionists own large factories, stores and granaries in which vast sums (made out of the South) are invested. This fact furnishes a means of checking their aggressions on the South; and the Irish friends of the South are relied on to make the check effective. Property is proverbially timid.-Whenever a bay stack or cotton gin is burned at the South, by Free-Soil emissaries, let a large factory or a plethoric store, or an immense granary, in New York or Boston, be given to the flames. To make this course safe, your association mast be true to itself and its principles; method, caution, your double secrecy, will insure the safety of the actors. Southern gentlemen will be constantly among you, amply supplied with means to remove those whose patriotism has subjected them to suspicion. Besides, many friends will be found both among Southern steamers' crews, Railway Conductors and the police. In fact, you will find friends and funds on every and. Be energetic, therefore-go at once to your; Foreman, and see if he cannot introduce you to the association, if you are not already a member.
Let us urge you to disseminate among your fellow-laborers the idea that you have not wages proportioned to the present high scale of prices. When once the mass of your countrymen are filled with the notion that the Free-Soil capitalists are withholding the price of Irish labor, while trying to incite the negro of the South to rebellion, it will be easy enough to gather large mobs of your brethren, and when large mobs assemble, ware-houses may be burst open or fired. Be careful, however, that only the property of Abolitionists is harmed: every where protect those who are friendly to the South and true to the Constitution.
Irishmen! the South relies on you! Depend on it, that for every dollar's worth of injury to our enemies in the Northern Factories, &c, &c., by riot or the torch, the South will amply compensate, and, besides, furnish you a safe refuge and a homestead. Remember to apply at once to your Foreman for particular instructions. If he should not be able (which is not likely) to inform you, show this privately to some Irish gentleman of intelligence, after ascertaining his feelings towards the South. Thousands of copies of this confidential circular will be sent by Irish people in the South, to their friends at the North. THE COMMITTEE.
November 23,1859.

SELECTIONS.
'OSAWATOMIE BROWN.
It is no use. Old Brown will have his day. He is the hero of the hour, and fills every ear with the story of his daring, of his fall, and of his fate.- Every paper that has come to us for the last month, has been devoted to the Osawatomie man, who has been enacting a feat more like an old legend, or a dream that an enthusiast sometimes permits himself to imagine in his waking moments, than a sober, actual transaction to fill a place in the history of the 19th century.
We need not, at this late day, say that the enterprise of old Brown was rash. That very common place observation has been sufficiently repeated. Nor that it was treasonable. Of course, it was treasonable. The old man put his neck fairly into it, and took the risk. To succeed, was the liberation of the slaves, and the reorganization of the government. To fail, was certain death to himself and all his confederates. To venture upon each a risk, where the chances of failure were as a thousand to one, shows a, courage and devotion worthy of our wonder and admiration.
Nor do we write now to exculpate the Republican party of the responsibility of the affair. Our political opponents understand our weaknesses too well to believe in the trumpery charges they prefer against us. They know very well that we are anxious of all things to succeed, and that conservatism and timidity are the vices of our organization; that we are feeling our way most carefully along the crooked path of expediency, putting out our hands upon both sides to feel the walls of popular propriety.
The Democrats will continue to amuse themselves at our nervous apprehensions and vehement disclaimers, as long as we care to gratify them in that way. The more we deprecate and deny, the louder and more brutal will be their accusations. It seems to us that it would have been more dignified and decor­ous in our people and presses to have left Gov. Wise to hang such of the invaders of his slave-pens as he had not already shot, and the Democratic papers to do the proper amount of howling over the occurrence.
If twenty Old Browns repeat the experiment during the coming winter, we do not know what tendency such events would have to change our views of the great public questions that have been discussed before the people the last six years. If the whole mass of the slaves rise in insurrection, as Jefferson
<c05>
predicted they one day would, it will be a most for <illegible> illustration of the safety of those counsels which the Republicans have been uttering in the deaf ears of the slavery propagandists for the past few years. While the Democratic party, in contempt of the great ideas of justice and equal rights, upon which the civil and social fabric can only be built safely, are hounding on the cry for more negroes and more plantations, the Republican party have done what they could to postpone the catastrophe, towards which such madness leads, and will mitigate its severity, if, in spite of their warnings and influence, it shall at last come.
No thoughtful man can read the disclosures attending this invasion, defeat, and trial of Brown, without being struck with the large and liberal structure of the man. Sitting at our ease at home, pursuing our petty aims of gain and praise, we are dwarfed in the comparison with a character in whom the torpor of age has not been able to quench the fiery enthusiasm of devotion to duty, or the stern courage which deems brave words a poor substitute for brave deeds in the service of humanity. His clemency to his prisoners, his carefulness to avoid as long as possible the shedding of blood, show that the injustice and cruelty of which he has been the victim has not made him misanthropic, and that his wild phantasy of bringing in the kingdom of God by the sword, has not blotted out the gentler instincts of a kindly nature, nor overthrown the sanction of Christian principles. The frankness with 'which he has avowed his chimerical but heroic purposes, the cheerfulness with which he has expected and solicited his fate, his disdain of the offered plea of insanity, exhibits a soul as faithful to truth as that of the most glorious of the Christian martyrs. To take the life of such a man may become a political neces­sity, but when a good man is punished, it is a terrible judgment upon the laws, the customs, the institutions of society. That Brown is a good man,-a 'man of an upright and pure soul, fit to associate with the self-devoted martyrs of earlier ages, no one can doubt who reads the narrative of his conversation and demeanor when under arrest and on his trial.
Such a man ought not to be executed. The world has too few such heroes to spare one. If old Brown's life could be bought by a holocaust of meaner men, I the country might well afford to ransom him by sending car-fulls of such creatures as Vallandigham to suffer the penalty in his stead. No virtue or nobleness would perish out of the world, should the Almighty break the mould in which the plastic dough is moulded into such common and cheap forms.
Nor do we quite think Virginia can afford to, hang Old Brown. It is not well to give his fascinating example such a seal of sanction as martyrdom would give it. For it is a thing to be forgotten, not glorified. Here is Uncle Tom's Cabin, with all its pathos and poetry, and the better for being true, and Gov. Wise is about to publish it from the gallows tree; nay, to cry it for sale all over the world! Take care lest some one else in love with glorious death comes down to the Old Dominion to snuff the blood of old Brown, and imitate his insanity! When they began to shoot at Louis Napoleon, it became a disease, and be many poor Frenchmen caught it, and died of it every year. But proceed, Messieurs! Play the game out! Old Brown is good for the last as well as the first conflict with the oppression ho hates.
From the American Baptist.
RESPONSE TO THE CRY OF VIOLENCE.'
'Go to, ye wicked, weep and howl; for all
That God hath written against you is at hand:
The cry of violence has reached His ear-
Hell is prepared, and Justice whets his sword.
Weep all, of every name! Begin the wo,
Ye woods, and tell it to the doleful winds;
And doleful winds, wail to the howling hills;
And howling hills, mourn to the dismal vale;
And dismal vales, sigh to the sorrowing brooks;
And sorrowing brooks, weep to the weeping stream;
And weeping stream, awake the groaning deep;
And let the instrument take up the song, 
Responsive to the voice-harmonious wo!
Ye heavens, great archway of the universe.
Put sackcloth on; and ocean, clothe thyself
In garb of widowhood, and gather all 
Thy waves into a groan, and utter it,
Long, loud, deep, piercing, dolorous, immense­
The occasion asks it! SLAVERY dies-and God 
And angels come to lay her in the grave.'
Among the first thoughts awakened in my mind by the news of the War at Harper's Ferry are those expressed in the preceding extract, in which I have changed but one word.
The mourning invoked is not supposed to spring from the death and burial of slavery, but from its infinite sinfulness in its rebellion against the govern­ment of God, and in the unparalleled injustice it perpetrates and cruelties it inflicts. The cry of violence has reached his ears. 'Talk of the 'treason' of John Brown against the government of Virginia and of the United States! Both of these governments are indisputably committing high treason against the 'Higher-Law'; and every man who cheerfully acquiesces in the execution of Virginia's sentence on that man becomes particeps criminis of that treason.
The fifth chapter of the Epistle of James is explicit on this great subject, and the principle enunciated in the extract I forward, the poet borrowed there. Who, then, is on the Lord's side, actuated by true patriotism in his kingdom? Let every such patriot go solemnly and humbly, yet with holy boldness, to the insulted throne of Zion's King-the King of Daniel and the three worthies, all condemned by an ungodly government under which hey were slaves, yet approved of God, and delivered by him. Let us go and pray for the heroic Brown and his associates, that they may not be sacrificed to the American Moloch; or, if they must he, that their death may, through divine grace, be a happy deliverance from sin, as well as from the injustice of men, and that the Second of December may be a 'Fourth of July' to the millions of American slaves. Lovejoy and Torrey and Brown will not have been martyred in vain. The whole scope of God's religion demands the immediate abolition of all slavery, and of every form of oppression; nay, 'immediate' now is centuries too late. The long forbearance of mercy; alone makes repen­tance and reformation practicable; and, on that account, the declaration of the forbearing Sove­reign, contained in the 22nd chapter of Jeremiah, may once more be rehearsed in the ears of slavery-sustainers. Jer. 22: 3-5.
John Brown may have erred; bat his name will be immortalized by honest historians, neither as an insane man, nor a reckless fanatic, but as a dauntless asserter of the right of man and the sovereignty of God.
I have expressed my opinions plainly; and that no other man may be liable to arraignment for them, I subscribe myself an uncompromising advocate of the faith of our fathers, that, among the equal rights with which God has endowed all men, are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.'
3CYRUS P. GROSVENOR.
Wheatland, N. Y., November, 1859.
Rev Mr. <illegible> was formerly President of McGrawville College
<c06>
[Translated for the Liberator.]
From the Cincinnati [German] Republican, Oct. 22.
JOHN BROWN.
Such a man, in the person of John Brown, has just performed his last exploit on the battlefield of human emancipation. He was influenced by a noble enthusiasm for the rights of man, and by a thorough hatred of the specious attempt to perform impossibilities against slavery,-an attempt whose unmanly, bloody and criminal results he had witnessed in the closest proximity to which the life of two of his sons had fallen a sacrifice in the most horrible manner which had ruined all his happiness in life here on earth, and had left him, the pious, devoted Christian, only the belief in a freer world hereafter. All this vindicates his act in its motive and in its purpose. That it had no apparent result detracts nothing from its merit. That the means employed in the disturbance were not adapted to overcome opposition, was an error in calculation, which it is easy to forgive, when the calculation is induced by a generous enthusiasm, and by aversion to keep silent in regard to wickedness. The consequences of this act, therefore, are not lost; the victims have not fallen in vain.
When Orsini had thrown his bomb at Napoleon, and no one perished because of it except himself and his confederates, thereupon a shriek of condemnation arose from the entire press, which represented the undecided multitude, namely, the Anglo-American press. Then Napoleon was supposed to be more firmly established than ever, because of this deed. And yet it was otherwise; by that bomb he was frightened into the Italian war; still in his troubled dreams he hears it exploding, and he is pushed forward by the sound on the road at the end of which lie the liberty of the people and his own grave. So it is with this act of Brown's; it has sounded the death-knell in the hearts of those whose prosperity is built upon crime, and it will find an echo in the hearts of the en forcibly held in bondage. It will remind the Republicans that progress cannot be made in easy chairs, but that it can be made only so far as opposition is overcome.
It is abominable, with what levity and with what fear of compromising themselves, so many editors of American newspapers, the Republican even, allow themselves to condemn the fallen MAN, in order to keep far from themselves the suspicion that they, perhaps, might also be MEN. We can say with satisfaction, that the German Republican newspapers have acted decidedly and honorably in recognizing the historical significance of Brown's exploit.
Brown has done as every champion of human freedom has done, since the beginning of the race. By the motive and the purpose of his action, he has secured himself a place among the martyrs of mankind. This, and the full recognition of all freemen, are his reward. The violated, absolute Law, his material weakness in the defence of Nature's law against the absolute,-this he will atone for with all that his adversaries can take from him.
But you-the dogs that bark after the noble game has fallen-over you the scourge is hanging, to speak to you in the only language that you understand!
THE HARPER'S FERRY RISING.
A quarter of a century ago, slave risings in the Southern States of America were much more frequent than that have been of late years. when Garrison and the Abolitionists took up the cause of the slaved, and avowed their determination to trust exclusively to a moral and peaceful agitation for the ultimate extinction of the great national crime, the whole negro population knew that their rights would have due representation in the strife of political parties, and for the first time were content to await patiently the result. The wisest leaders of the Abolitionists knew that fruitless risings only tended to aggravate then evils of slavery, and riveted still more firmly the chains which they aimed to unloose. the menaced slaveholding race, with the usual blind and cowardly instinct of fear, after every unsuccessful rising, exercised its power more jealously and severely than before; while the more timid friends of abolition would recoil with aversion from a cause which, however just and noble in principle, became identified with the cause of political disruption and the horrors of a social revolution.
The Harper's Ferry rising is but an insignificant incident in the history of the great social struggle in America. Before this time it has probably been hopelessly crushed, and the usual savage severities of the conquering party will illustrate the vindictive, and at the same time the craven fears of the slaveholders. From the first it was badly planned and organized, and there is no reason to believe that it received the sanction, or was conducted under the investigation of any of the Abolitionist leaders. 
While we condemn such ill-concerted insurrections as foolish and politically inexpedient, we cannot denounce them as criminal. Whether the race struggling for freedom be white or black, our sympathies must always be on the side of those who manfully rise to throw off their chains. If we have ever entertained any doubts about the capabilities of the negro race, they arise from the very fact that they have so long borne slavery so patiently and submissively. An Anglo-Saxon race we proudly felt could never thus have been held in subjection. When all peaceful agitation has failed, and every other resource has been found hopeless, who can deny that a servile revolution becomes as justifiable as any of those famous up-risings of oppressed so large a portion of the heroic element in history? The real guilt of the bloodshed and revolution lies with the oppressors, with those who are perpetually adding a new shade a darkness to the national guilt, and who wilfully driven men in hopelessness to extreme measures. These servile insurrections will probably become more frequent in proportion as every other means of abolishing slavery becomes fruitless. There was a time when statesmen of all parties in America regarded slavery as a merely temporary and provisional arrangement, and looked forward to the day when the chains of the slave would gradually be struck off. But that time seems to have passed away, and the cry of the Southern slaveholders now is, that slavery is a divine institution and an integral part of the social and political constitution of America. More slave territory, the revival of the iniquitous and illegal slave-trade, are now the popular demands. when such principles as these are becoming more and more prevalent, and slavery is regarded rather as a 'right' to be retained than an evil to be deprecated and ultimately abolished, the 'chivalrous' politicians of the South are doing all in their power to render noble and heroic every effort, however bloody, to throw off the yoke of slavery-London Enquirer.
The place was well chosen, so far as being a depot of arms, but badly as a centre of negro insurrection. The negroes in that part of 
Virginia are few, and those further south do not appear to have heard of his project. It was the wild effort of a kind of white DEED-of a prophet of vengeance, who fell in the attempt to fulfil his own prophecy, and he now stands before his judge with all the confidence of an undaunted martyr. The South, however, appears to 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
THE United States Constitution is a convenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slaver. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly that they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending. 
WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be in consteration; and well it may be. The slaves are, indeed , a quiet, docile, amiable race; but the slaveholders feel the terrors of the guiltiest of consciences. The very name of insurrection may well make them shudder, although in this case it was so absurdly arranged that success was hopeless. On the large cotton estates, isolated from the white population, where each master lives defended only by his own rifle, and where it needs but the spirit of self-sacrifice in a few, to enable the hundreds and thousands to tear their oppressors to pieces without a single weapon, it must be fearful to contemplate a negro rising. Hence the aversion to the light of Christianity; hence the prohibiting slaves from learning to read; hence all the devices to keep them ignorant of anything but the rudest appliances of agriculture. 
The affair is, while we write, no doubt quite over, and BROWN has died the death which he regards as an honor to his memory on earth, and as his passport to heaven. Yet, while we thus write, can we do so without a trembling glance at the future?-Slaveholders themselves, like the author of slavery, ï¿½believe and tremble.ï¿½ All that Episcopalian, Presbyterian, Baptist, Independent, and Methodist preachers of CHRIST'S gospel can say, does not convince the slaveholders of their own innocence, nor destroy their belief of those rights of man which ministers of the Gospel do all they can to subvert. Load will be the denunciations of the pulpit, loud the declamation against Abolitionists, and against the Republican or Anti-Slavery party too,-but the denouncers had better be quiet. Should all the negroes rise by concert on one day, should they expel their unresisting masters, and kill those who fought them, theirs will be a juster cause than that of WASHINGTON. Let Americans ponder on this-if negroes could emancipate themselves by insurrection, all the world would own that if it was glorious to rise to throw off taxes, it were much more glorious to rise to throw off chains. While all benevolent men would deprecate a negro insurrection, yet all lovers of liberty, all who care for human rights, would feel that no other insurrection for liberty could be equally justified. It is the consciousness of this fact that makes the thought of negro insurrection terrible. It would be a righteous insurrection.-London Freeman.

NORTHERN ABOLITIONISM. 
The Abolitionism of the North, so far from making war on, or being inimical to, 
the institution of slavery, has been for the last twenty years its great safety valve: the escape pipe through which the dangerous element incident to slavery found vent. Prior to the existence of Abolitionism, outbreaks and fearful mutterings and threatenings among slaves were frequent, and to the holders alarming. We can all trace back to the Nat Turnersï¿½ and the Denmark Veaziesï¿½ and others. The slave then had no hope of deliverance, except by his own right arm, however feeble. He saw no farther, and believing that it was appointed to man but once to die. felt willing to do so, or gain his liberty. But when Wm. Lloyd Garrison and his coadjutors enunciated the doctrines of Abolitionism and Non-Resistance, the slave received a new and far different lesson. He was taught to hope for deliverance-to feel that he was not forsaken nor forgotten-that some day, however distant, he would be enabled to lay aside his chains and be acknowledged a man. With these hopes the fierceness of his passions subsided, he agreed to submit to his hard task, and thenceforth up till recently, but little comparative discontent has been manifested, and yet the South to this important fact has also been blind. Let her henceforth read Abolition journals and Abolition literature-let her read our paper, if she wishes to study and know the signs, and interpret the meaning thereof, as they appear in the moral horizon of the North, and be wise.-Anglo-African.

THE ï¿½IRREPRESSIBLEï¿½ PANIC IN VIEGINIA. 
We give further particulars of the extraordinary state of alarm which prevailed throughout Virginia, in connection with the approaching execution of John Brown. A Virginia correspondent of the New York Times says:-
ï¿½The present aspect of things in Virginia is gloomy, and ominous of a still more gloomy future. There is a prevailing feeling of uncertainty growing out of the Harper's Ferry insurrection, and its sad effects upon the relations of the two sections, which affects the very tenure of property itself, and impairs the patriotic relations of the citizen to the State. Patriotism rises not one jot beyond the point of self-protection, and even in this, its functions seem inadequate to the crisis, or at least, inadequate to give the necessary assurance of protection. It is needless to deny the fact; our people are dismayed and distracted to a degree which no change in the present state of affairs can materially affect or remedy.
The colossal character of the evil which was the immediate cause of this feeling of insecurity, and the consequent despair of ever remedying it, is producing its effect upon the minds of large property-holders in several parts of the State. They see nothing in the future but interminable strife, the end of which must be a material diminution in the value of all descriptions of property. The government of the country is deemed incapable of an efficient discharge of its fundamental obligations, and the spirit of self-sacrifice and patriotism which was heretofore looked to as a counterbalance for this deficiency seems to have vanished as the very emergency which needed their exercise arose. A feeling of insecurity in respect of life and property has narrowed down the sphere of patriotic labor to a concern about one's own peculiar or individual interests.
This is but the natural result of a want of confidence in the government and laws to give due protection to life and property. As a consequence of this conviction, I understand that several leading and wealthy families of the State contemplate selling out and moving to England, or some part of the continent of Europe, there to enjoy that security which their own government is unable to extend at home. Moreover, as I understand, they see in the present distracted state of the country, the basis of a future conflict which would involve a serious depreciation in the value of a large amount of property that is now valuable; and they accordingly propose availing themselves of the present prosperous state of the times to dispose of their effects and quit.
The state of things, as it is estimated here, is truly anomalous. There is no actual war between the North and South, yet the panic is no less intense. The feeling is just such as pervades a people daily apprehensive of war, with this exception, that in the former instance, the apprehension and panic are destined to be enduring, because the cause is permanent and irremediable, while in the latter, negotiation may be available in removing the casus belli.
The effect of the present excitement in the South upon the negro population will be injurious in the extreme. All the incidents of the present crisis, the discussions relative to it, the preparations and musterings to repel abolition forays, are passing before their eyes and within their hearing. With very rare exceptions, the negroes are unable to read, and they rely almost entirely for information on what they can catch up, while waiting on the dinner or breakfast-table. There is generally some caution in keeping from them whatever would be calculated to enlighten them; but the existing excitement is <illegible> universal and so intense, and the discussions and preparations so unreserved, of necessity, as to make concealment impossible. 
They are thus more enlightened within the past few weeks than they would be during an age of comparative peace, when such movements and discussions would not be necessary. The effect will probably be to arouse some dangerous aspiration, incompatible with the condition of slavery; and once insubordination sets in, the integrity of the institution is at stake. In every aspect relating to the interests of both sections of the country, I regard the late Harper's Ferry insurrection as the greatest disaster that has yet befallen this country. Its baneful effects will long survive the present generation, and its influence will be daily developed in mutual hostility and retaliation between the people of the North and the South.
BROWN AND HIS ASSOCIATES. The execution of Brown has greatly depressed the remaining prisoners, and all, with the exception of Cook, are looking forward with certainty to their impending doom, and making religious preparations with sincerity and earnestness. Cook, evidently, has not yet abandoned his hope of commutation. Stevens has almost entirely recovered from his wounds. He has but little to say, and seems to be calm, quiet, and resigned. He is to be tried before the United States authorities, and the may possibly escape with imprisonment.
<c02>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 9, 1859. 
GREAT MEETING IN BOSTON
ON THE DAY OF THE
EXECUTION OF CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN. 
In accordance with a call through the newspapers of the city, and otherwise, an immense assemblage of the people of Boston gathered in the TREMONT TEMPLE on the evening of Friday, December 2d, the day appointed for the execution of JOHN BROWN, at Charles-tows, near Harper's Ferry, in the State of Virginia. During the afternoon, the telegraph wires had brought the tidings of the old man's death, and of the wonderful composure and devout trust in God with which he met the fate inflicted on him by tyrantsï¿½ hands. With conflicting emotions, the thousands who had learned to venerate the character and motives of John Brown, though they might not approve all his methods of action, flocked together until the walls of the Temple were crowded, to use the language of the Boston Journal, as probably they never were crowded before. Indeed, at 7 o'clock, half an hour before the time appointed for the proceedings to commence, not only every seat, but every nook and corner of standing room were occupied, and it became necessary to anticipate the time fixed for opening. It is estimated that more than three thousand persons were unable to gain admittance within the spacious Temple.
The Hall had been surrounded with emblems and mottoes suitable to the occasion. There was no funeral drapery, the walls were not hung in black. Deep as was the grief of the day, faith, trust, and renewed consecration of spirit to the noblest and holiest of causes, were the feelings which evidently predominated; and it is certain that no meeting has ever assembled in Boston, in this day and generation, so fully pervaded and so deeply actuated by these feelings as this meeting was.
In front of the speaker's desk was a likeness of JOHN BROWN himself, copied from the last photograph taken of him. It was surrounded by a cross, and around the whole was a wreath of evergreen and amaranth. Before the picture, and on each side of it, were three large printed placards, each bearing a sentence uttered by John Brown. They were as follows:
ï¿½I don't know what weakness may come over me; but I don't believe I shall ever deny my Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, and I should deny Him if I denied my principles against Slavery.ï¿½ JOHN BROWN.
ï¿½I don't know as I can better serve the cause I love so well than to die for it.ï¿½ JOHN BROWN.
ï¿½What is life at best to me, so long as I hold a commission direct from God Almighty to act against slavery?ï¿½ JOHN BROWN.
At the upper end of the hall, on each side of the organ, on similar placards, were the following:
ï¿½Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hands of the 
oppressor.ï¿½-JEREMIAH 4: 12.
ï¿½Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them.ï¿½
And upon either side of them, the following: 
ï¿½Your late purchase of an estate, with a view of emancipating the slaves on it, is a generous and noble proof of your humanity. Would to God a like spirit might diffuse itself generally into the minds of the people of this country!ï¿½-WASHINTONï¿½S LETTER TO LAFAYETTE.
ï¿½I never would have drawn my sword in the cause of America, if I could have conceived that thereby I was helping to found a nation of slaves.ï¿½ LAFAYETTE.
Around the hall, and in front of the several galleries, were other mottoes and passages as follows:
ï¿½Thus saith the Lord: Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor. Behold, I proclaim liberty for you, saith the Lord, to THE SWORD.ï¿½
ï¿½I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that His justice cannot sleep forever. A revolution is among possible events. The Almighty has no attribute which would side with us in such a struggle.ï¿½-THOMAS JEFFERSON.
ï¿½One hour of American Slavery is fraught with more misery than ages of that which our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose.ï¿½ï¿½THOMAS JEFFERSON. 
ï¿½It is a debt we owe to the purity of our Religion to show that it is at variance with that law which warrants Slavery.-Give me Liberty, or give me Death!ï¿½ï¿½PATRICK. HENRY, of Virginia.
ï¿½Whether on the scaffold high,
Or in the battle's van,
The fittest place for man to die
Is where he dies for man.ï¿½
It will be seen that a large proportion of the above are the language of Virginia, and of her prominent citizens.
Directly in the rear of the desk, and facing the audience, was an elegantly painted banner, bearing the Arms and Seal of the recreant and fallen State of Virginia. In the centre was a manly figure, standing erect, with one foot upon the neck of a prostrate tyrant, from whose head and hands a crown and sceptre have just fallen, with the name Virginia, and the motto,ï¿½ SIC SEMPER TYRANNISï¿½ï¿½(ï¿½So be it ever to Tyrants,') emblazoned upon it-as follows:-
This ï¿½insurrectionary' emblem was by far the most conspicuous of all the devices in the hall. It attracted much attention, and suggested the general remark that John Brown was directly upheld, in his attempt to set free the slaves of Virginia, by the present instructions, as well as by the early example, of Virginia herself.
In juxtaposition with the Coat of Arms of Virginia were the following extracts from the Constitution of Virginia:
ï¿½All Men are by nature equally Free and Independent; and have certain Inherent Rights, of which, when they enter into a State of Society, they cannot by any Compact deprive or divest their Posterity,-namely, the Enjoyment of Life and Liberty.ï¿½
Just before the opening of the meeting, a gentleman made his way to an elevated point between the platform and gallery, and raised a banner, which displayed the following words:-
ï¿½He dies by the mandate of the Slave Power, yet ï¿½still livesï¿½ by virtue of his heroic deeds.ï¿½
The unrolling of this banner was received with very great cheering.
THE ORGANIZATION.
Shortly after 7 o'clock, Mr. Samuel May, Jr. arose, and announced the following list of officers for the meeting:-
President-Samuel E. Sewall, Esq. 
Vice Presidents-Rev. John Pierpont, Francis Jackson, Rev. J. T. Sargent, Rev. J. F. Clarke, Edmund Quincy, Prince S. Crowell, James N. Buffum. 
Secretaries-Samuel May, Jr., James M. W. Yesrinton.
The list of officers was accepted, and the President introduced Rev. James Freeman Clarke to open the meeting by reading from the Scriptures. He said
<c03>
John Brown was a Bible man, and it was appropriate to open this meeting by selections from the Holy Writ He then read selected passages from the Scriptures suited to the occasion.
Rev. J. T. Sargent offered a fervent and solemn prayer.
SAMUEL E. SEWAL, Esq., the presiding officer, then addressed the meeting, as follows;-
MR. SEWALL'S REMARKS.
The vast assembly before me testifies to our deep interest in the event which has summoned us together. We meet, my friends, to manifest the feelings which the martyrdom of John Brown has excited. I have been during the day oppressed with sadness.-Many of you must have been affected in the same manner. We are filled with the <Illegible> sorrow; but not for him, the hero, saint, and <Illegible> We ought to shed no tears, when such a man is translated from pain and suffering here, to a brighter and happier.
Yet we must be moved when we think of the terrible affliction of his family, of his wife robbed of her husband and two sons, of his children bereaved of their father, and by a death so appalling and heart-rending. But even in their agony they have this best and truest consolation, that though John Brown suffered the death of a traitor and felon, yet that he died guiltless of crime. They have, too, a farther consolation in the sympathy of the thousands and millions who look with admiration on the character of their departed friend.
For our country which has tolerated, fostered, and extended slavery by its judges and legislators, we well may feel shame and sorrow. But when we turn to Virginia, the sorrow and pity which we feel for her degradation are mingled with scorn and indignation-Virginia, the State whose chief support is the sale of her own sons and daughters! 
From the moment when John Brown was taken prisoner, Virginia doomed him to death. But she dared to give him no trial even in her own courts, lest by some accident he might escape the fate she was preparing for him. For the mockery of a trial she accorded him was no trial.
John Brown is brought into court, indicted for treason, murder, and attempting to excite the slaves to insurrection. He asks for a few days to engage counsel and make his preparations. But this most reasonable request, one which every Police Court in Massachusetts would have granted to any person charged with the slightest offence, as a matter of course, Judge Parker, refuses. 
John Brown was brought into court lying on his bed, severely wounded, aching with pain, his hearing impaired, and his mind confused by his sufferings and bodily weakness. He asks for a little delay that he may recover his health sufficiently to go through the trial. But Judge Parker decides that the man is able to be tried; and the trial proceeds.
This proceeding reminds us of the Inquisition, secret tribunals, and the dark ages. Before such courts, a man agonized by the torture was not only considered able to be tried, but the best fitted to be tried, because the object of the trial was, as in Virginia, not to ascertain the truth or falsehood of the charges against him, but to accomplish his conviction and punishment.
Under these circumstances, whether John Brown was technically guilty of any offence against the laws of Virginia or not, he has not had a fair trial, and his execution is therefore butchery and murder, and the Judge and Governor were only the tools of Virginia in carrying out this judicial assassination. Better, far better, would it have been for the reputation of Virginia if John Brown had been lynched by the infuriated wretches who killed his companion, Thompson. The murder of Thompson, base, cruel, and fiendish as it seems to us, since it was done in the heat of blood, was far more creditable to Virginia than the deliberate judicial assassination of John Brown.
The state of Virginia has presented a strange spectacle during the last few weeks. Conscience-stricken, she has been convulsed with fear from end to end, dreading the assaults not of white men from the North, whom she well knew had no design of attacking any of her inhabitants, but dreading the acts of her own oppressed bondmen. The Governor has been riding forwards and backwards from Richmond to Charlestown, and from Charlestown to Richmond, collecting thousands of troops, haranguing the people, making speeches to the militia, and issuing proclamations. All these valorous military demonstrations strike us as preparations to meet a secret foe, which existed only in the excited imagination of the Governor.
I cannot help pitying Governor Wise. He feels, for he has openly expressed it, admiration of John Brown. Supposing him to have common humanity, we cannot doubt he would have been glad to save John Brown's life. If he is a statesman, he could not but have seen that the execution of John Brown and his associates, so far from strengthening the southern institution, and rendering slaveholders secure and happy, must fill them with terror and dismay on account of its effects on their own slaves; and make them shudder at the moral indignation which such an act must inspire throughout the civilized world.
The only safe course for the future reputation and peace of Virginia would have been an unconditional pardon of John Brown and his associates. The events at Harper's Ferry would then have been soon forgotten, or only remembered as an unimportant episode in the history of Virginia. It would have tended to quiet the slaves, and for a time to lessen the clamor against slavery.
As it is, Governor Wise seems likely to be pilloried by history at the side of Pontius Pilate, as the man who shed innocent blood in violation of his own convictions of right, to satisfy the clamor of a deluded populace crying, ï¿½Crucify him, crucify him!ï¿½
The view which history will take of John Brown is not doubtful. History will forget to inquire whether his plans were judicious, skilful, and worthy of approbation, but will only look at his motive and object. These she will at once acknowledge to be pure and noble. His motive was the love of the down-trodden and oppressed. His object was, as he himself has told us, not to commit treason or murder, nor to excite insurrection among the slaves, (designs which he always repudiated,) but to aid Virginia's bondmen in escaping from American oppression into British freedom in Canada.
History will find in John Brown a man such as she delights to honor, a man full of courage and faith, devotion to his country and the human race, self forgetting, self-sacrificing, always governed by the gospel of his beloved Master, doing unto others as he would have them do to him, and remembering those in bonds as bound with them. His will be a name that will thrill the hearts of generations yet to come, as ours are now thrilled by the names of Tell, of Bruce, Wallace, Hampden, Sidney, Toussaint, the Adamses, Hancock, Warren, and Washington.
If I had been consulted about the expedition of John Brown, I am bound to say that I should not have recommended or approved it. But perhaps he was wiser than I; for the very failure of the direct object of his expedition has given a direr blow to slavery than its most triumphant success could have done. When Governor Wise signed the death-arrant of John Brown, it seems to me that he also sealed the death-warrant of slavery in Virginia. In vain will Virginia strive to prevent the testimony of this last martyr to her tyranny from being heard throughout the civilized world, and even among her own sons and daughters. The wonderful words of John Brown, spoken during his captivity, which have cheered us with astonishment and delight, illuminated as they now are by the glory of his martyrdom, will be read and re-read, studied and pondered over until slavery shall cease to blight the soil of Virginia. (Loud applause.)
<c04>
The President announced that JOHN BROWNï¿½S address to the Court, which had pronounced sentence of death upon him, would be read by William Lloyd Garrison.
As Mr. Garrison came to the desk, he was greeted by a simultaneous cheer from every part of the house, which was protracted for quite a space of time. How wonderful the change in Boston, since the time when a mob of Boston gentlemenï¿½ dragged this same Mr. Garrison by a halter through the streets of the city, thirsting for his blood because he had told them the truth, and he saved from their murderous hands only by being hurried to the county jail, and immurea there under a strong guard until the following day! Well may the Boston Post and the Boston Courier gnash their teeth, as they see the change, and utter their curses, and call on all their gods to come to their help and rescue! The spirit of Freedom will not down at their cowardly and selfish bidding, but will ere long consign them to the contempt and infamy they so thoroughly have earned for themselves.
Mr. Garrison said-To-day, Virginia has murdered John Brown; to-night, we here witness his resurrection. (Cheers.) As his lips are forever sealed in death-as the common privilege accorded to the vilest criminals was denied him, even on the scaffold, to give a farewell address-it seems peculiarly pertinent, on this occasion, to read his thrilling and marvellous remarks to the Court, in reply to the inquiry whether he had any thing to say why sentence of death should not be pronounced upon him.
Mr. Garrison read the address, which was listened to in perfect silence. He also read an original poem, written for the occasion by George W. Light, Esq., which was loudly applauded. [See poetical department on the last page.]
It was then announced by Mr. May that one of the declared objects of the meeting was to take a collection, to be added, after the defraying of actual expenses, to the fund for the relief of the widow and family of John Brown. In that object, undoubtedly, the whole meeting would sympathize, and in their name he would invite the following gentlemen to act as a Collecting Committee:-
John R. Manley, E. H. Heywood, Austin Bearse, Rodney Moore, Charles E. Hodges, Charles C. Mead, Henry J. Prentiss, William L. Garrison, Jr., and Thomas M. Hathaway. 
And these gentlemen proceeded to take up the collection. This proved a very difficult work, on account of the denseness of the crowd. The entire collection taken was a little over two hundred and thirty-five dollars.
The Chairman introduced, as the first speaker, Rev. J. Sella Martin [formerly a Southern slave]:-
SPEECH OF REV. J. S. MARTIN.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,-To-day, a solemn question has been asked this nation. The Pilate of Providence has asked America-ï¿½Whom will you that I deliver unto you-the Barabbas of Slavery, or the John Brown of Freedom?ï¿½ And, intimidated by the false majesty of despotic enactments, which have usurped the place of Christianity, corrupted by a false policy, and stung to phrenzy by the insinuations of our political high priests, we have cried out, as a nation-ï¿½Release unto us the Barabbas of slavery, and destroy John Brown.ï¿½ And, true to this horrible, this atrocious request, John Brown has been offered up. Thank God, he said, ï¿½I am ready to be offered upï¿½!
Men say that his life was ï¿½a failure.ï¿½ I remember the story of one of the world's moral heroes, whose life was just such a ï¿½failure.ï¿½ I remember one who, having retired to the deserts of Judea, to wring from the hard, stony life of those deserts the qualifications of a moral hero, by living an ascetic life, had subjugated the lower desires of his nature, and who, with all those qualifications, and with all this purity, was brought into a corrupt and voluptuous court, I remember, too, that in that court, not withstanding he was its favorite, notwithstanding the corruption and luxury of the times, he preserved himself the same stem man, and said to the King-ï¿½It is not lawful for you to live with your brother Philip's wife.ï¿½ These were the stern words of John the Baptist, and it seems to me that a beautiful parallel may be drawn between these two men-John the Baptist and John Brown-for John Brown, like John the Baptist, retired into the hard and stony desert of Kansas, and there, by the weapons of heroism, by the principles of freedom, and the undaunted courage of a man, wrung from that bloody soil the highest encomiums of Freedom, and the most base acknowledgments of slavery, that the one was right and the other wrong. (Applause.) I know that John Brown, in thus rebuking our public sin, in thus facing the monarch, has had to bear just what John the Baptist bore. His head to-day, by Virginia,-that guilty maid of a more guilty mother, the American Government, (cheers, mingled with a few hisses, which were at once drowned in an outburst of vehement applause)-has been cut off, and it has been presented to the ferocious and insatiable hunger, the terrible and inhuman appetite of this corrupt government. To-day, by the telegraph, we have received the intelligence that John Brown has forfeited his life-all this honesty, all this straight-forwardness, all this self-sacrifice, which has been manifested in Harper's Ferry.
My friends, his life was just such aï¿½ failureï¿½ as all great movements have been. The physical failure has been the death of the seed, externally, which has given life to the germ, which has sprung forth to spread its moral boughs all over this corrupt nation. (Applause.) I have not the slightest doubt that this will be the result. His life was aï¿½ failure,' but it was such a failure, (and I care not though the Boston Courier take offence at the comparison as irreverent,) and History will place it in the same category with the failure of the Cross, where Jesus died, and moral life came forth to the world. (Applause.) John Brown has died, but the life of Freedom, from his death, shall flow forth to this nation.
I know that there is some quibbling, some querulousness, some fear, in reference to an out-and-out endorsement of his course. Men of peace principles object to it, in consequence of their religious conviction; politicians in the North object to it, because they are afraid that it will injure their party; proslavery men in the South object to it, because it has touched their dearest idol; but I am prepared, my friends, (and, permit me to say, this is not the language of rage,) I am prepared, in the light of all human history, to approve of the means; in the light of all Christian principle, to approve of the end. (Applause.) I say this is not the language of rage, because I remember that our Fourth-of-July orators sanction the same thing; because I remember that Concord, and Bunker Hill, and every historic battlefield in this country, and the celebration of those events, all go to approve the means that John Brown has used; the only difference being, that in our battles, in America, means have been used for white men, and that John Brown has used his means for black men. (Applause.) And I say, that so far as principle is concerned, so far as the sanctions of the Gospel are concerned, I am prepared to endorse his end; and I endorse it because God Almighty has told us that we should feel with them that are in bonds as being bound with them. I endorse his end, because every single instinct of our nature rises and tells us that it is right. I find an endorsement of John Brown's course in the large assembly gathered here this evening; I find an endorsement of the principles that governed him in going to Virginia, in the presence of the men and women who have come here to listen to his eulogy, and sympathize with his suffering family. I know that all have not come for that purpose, but I know there are seven thousand still in Israel who have not bowed the <Illegible> to the political Baal. (Loud applause.)
<c05>
Now, I bring this question down to the simple test of the Gospel; and, agreeing with those men who say the sword should not be used, agreeing with them in that principle, and recognizing its binding obligation upon us all, yet I believe in that homoeopathic principle which operates by mercury when mercury is in the system, and that that which is supported by the sword should be overthrown by the sword. I look at this question as a peace man. I say, in accordance with the principles of peace, that I do not believe the sword should be unsheathed, I do net believe the dagger should be drawn, until there is in the system to be assailed such terrible evidences of its corruption, that it becomes the dernier resort. And, my friends, we are not to blame the application of the instrument, we are to blame the disease itself. When a physician cuts out a cancer from my face, I am not to blame the physician for the use of the knife; but the impure blood, the obstructed veins, the disordered system, that have caused the cancer, and rendered the use of the instrument necessary. The physician has but chosen the least of two evils. So John Brown chose the least of two evils. To save the country, he went down to cut off the Virginia cancer. (Applause.)
I say that I am prepared to endorse John Brownï¿½s course fully. He has said that he did not intend to shed blood. In my opinion, speaking as a military critic, this was one of the faults of his plan. In not shedding blood, he left the slaves uncertain how to act; so that the North has said that the negroes there are cowards. They are not cowards, but great diplomats. When they saw their masters in the possession of John Brown, in bonds like themselves, they would have been perfect fools had they demonstrated any willingness to join him. They have got sense enough to know, that until there is a perfect demonstration that the white man is their friend-a demonstration bathed in blood-it is all foolishness to co-operate with them. They have learned this much from the treachery of white men at the North, and the cruelty of the white men at the South, that they cannot trust the white man, even when he comes to deliver them. So it was not their cowardice, nor their craven selfishness, but it was their caution, that prevented them from joining Brown. I say this because I think it is necessary to vindicate the character of the negro for courage. I know very well that in this country, the white people have said that the negroes will not fight; but I know also, that when the countryï¿½s honor has been at stake, and the dire prejudice that excludes the colored man from all positions of honor, and all opportunities for advancement, has not interfered to exclude him from the military, he was gone with the army, and there displayed as much courage as his white brother.
To some extent, I sympathize with the suggestions of the Boston Journal, that we should consider the state of excitement among the people of Virginia; for I know what that state of excitement is. I know that if a rat should happen to strike his tail against the lathes, they would be all up, looking through the house-taking good care always to make a negro go before. (Laughter.) I am ready to say, if he has violated the law, if he has taken an improper course, if he has been the traitor that the South brands him as having been, and the madman that the North says he has been, John Brown is not to be blamed. I say that the system which violates the sacredness of conjugal love, the system that robs the cradle of its innocent treasure-the system that goes into the temple of manhood, and writes upon the altar its hellish hieroglyphics of slavery-the system that takes away every God-given right, and tramples religion under foot,-I say that that system is responsible for every single crime committed within the borders where it exists. (Applause.) It is the system, my friends. I hold that that is a false logic which talks about good slaveholders. I hold that it is folly on the part of the slaveholder himself when he attempts to keep his slaves by mild means. The more a man learns, the more kindly he is treated, the more he aspires for liberty, the more restive he becomes under the yoke.-Hence it is not an accident, but a necessity of the system of slavery, that it should be cruel; and all its devilish instrumentality, and enginery, and paraphernalia must be cruel also. It is folly for us to talk about the slaveholders being kind. Cruelty is part and parcel of the system. If slavery is right at all, then all its terrors and horrors,-the whip, the manacle, the thumbscrew, the paddle, the stake, the gibbet-are right also; if it is not right, then all these are wrong. The people of the North have said John Brown was a madman-I suppose mostly because it is on the eve of an election: but if he was mad, his madness not only had a great deal ofï¿½ method' in it, but a great deal of philosophy and religion. I say, my friends, that no man ever died in this country as John Brown has died to-day.ï¿½ I say it, because John Brown was a praying man. I remember hearing an incident in reference to his praying, from the lips of a man in whose presence and in whose house it occurred, and I loved him the more when I heard it. Coming to Henry Highland Garnet, of New York, some two years ago, he said to him, after unfolding all his plans, ï¿½Mr. Garnet, what do you think of it?ï¿½ Said Mr. Garnet, who is at once a Christian, a gentleman, and a scholar,-ï¿½ Sir, the time has not come yet for the success of such a movement. Our people in the South are not sufficiently apprised of their rights, and of the sympathy that exists on the part of the North for them; our people in the North are not prepared to assist in such a movement, in consequence of the prejudice that shuts them out from both the means and the intelligence necessary. The breach between the North and the South has not yet become wide enough.ï¿½ Mr. Brown, looking him in the face as his keen eye was lit up with its peculiar fire, and his soul seemed to come forth with all its intellectual energy to look out and scan, if possible, the whole horizon of Providence, said,ï¿½ Mr. Garnet, let us ask God about itï¿½; and he got down upon his knees, and there poured out his heart to that God who is peculiarly the God of the bondman. He then showed the depth of his religious feeling-the intense interest that he had in the emancipation of mankind, and the heroism of his soul. Mr. Garnet says that never in his life has he been so moved by a prayer as he was by that prayer of John Brown's. When such a man as this dies as he has died to-day, with the prayers of five millions of people going up to Heaven in his behalf-for I know that at least that number of Christians have prayed for him-when such a man dies, I am sure that his death under such circumstances affords us a great, an almost demonstrable evidence of the success of the movement that he has inaugurated, and of the final accomplishment of the great object of his soul. (Applause.) I say that no man has ever died in this country as John Brown has died. While his soul has gone up to God, and his body has been taken down a lifeless corpse, thank God! all over the country, meetings are being held to-night to give expression to that great feeling of sympathy which is to swell the great tornado-Let Virginia thank herself for it! In her guilty planting she has sown the wind; let her thank herself if in her terrible harvest she reaps the whirlwind of destruction. (Applause.)
Go down to Virginia, and see that firm old man as he comes out from his prison, leaning upon the arm of the sheriff, and with his head erect, ascends the dreadful steps of the gibbet. We see him as he goes his way to the top, and every step he takes seems to be inspired with that feeling which the poet Longfellow describes as animating the heart of the young man climbing to the top of the mountain-ï¿½<Illegible>until planting himself on the top, he is ready for his martyrdom. Though his body falls, the spirit of slavery and despotism falls with it, while John Brown goes up to heaven. Thank God! thank God! (Applause.)
I have detained you long enough. This is not the time to vindicate his cause. I have made these remarks only because they seem to be suggested here.
<c06>
I close by saying, my friends, that John Brown shall indeed be a fit representative of that Old <Illegible> character of whom Mr. Clark read, and shall slay more in his death than he ever slew in all his life.<illegible> It is thought by the slaves-and it is a beautiful conceit, though coming from slaves-that the <illegible> from the heavens are sparks that escape from the <illegible> house of the lightnings to strike upon the craters of volcanoes, and that is the cause of their <Illegible> From the firmament of Providence to-day, a <illegible> has fallen. It has fallen upon the volcano of <illegible>sympathies, and though, for awhile, it may seem to sleep, yet its igneous power shall communicate itself to the slumbering might of the volcano, and it <illegible> burst forth in one general conflagration of revolutions that shall bring about universal freedom. (Applause.) I feel, my friends and fellow-citizens, to-night, the courage, the adamantine courage, which has <Illegible>day been blasted by the terrible enginery of slavery, will serve as the grit in the grindstone upon which the slave shall sharpen his weapon. I feel that the bundle of nerves, the strongest and most iron that the world has seen in America, that has to-day been unbound by the hand of despotism, will prove as the rails upon which Christian progress shall advance unward to the goal of universal freedom. I believe that every drop of blood shed to-day will be gathered up by the ever vigilant spirit of freedom, as sympathetic sparks placed in the van of Liberty, as the great Shekinah before whom the apostles of slavery shall <Illegible>down and pay worship, and by whose r<Illegible> light the darkest hovels of slavery shall be penetrated until the chains shall be melted from every limb, and the slave stand forthï¿½ regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible Genius of Universal Emancipation.ï¿½ (Loud applause.)
[Additional speeches were made by J. Q. A. Griffin, Esq., of Charlestown, (member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives,) Hon. R.P. Davis of Bristol, (member of the Senate,) Wm. Lloyd Garison, Rev.. John Pierpont, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, and George H. Hoyt, Esq. These elicited the heartiest applause throughout; but, in the crowded state of our columns this weeks, we are obliged to defer their publication till next week. The entire demonstration was heart-cheering and sublime.]

THE MURDER OF JOHN BROWN.
Friday last, Dec.2, Capt. John Brown was judicially murdered by the State of Virginia-a memorable day in the annals of American history. It was extensively observed, by the holding of public meetings, the tolling of bells, and various impressive solemnities, in all parts of the country. The particulars we are obliged to defer till another number.
MONTREAL, Dec. 3.
A meeting took place at Bonaventura Hall in this city, yesterday afternoon, to offer up prayers in behalf of John Brown. The meeting was numerously attended, mostly by colored people. A sermon was then preached by Rev. A.F. Wood, a colored <Illegible>, after which a collection was taken up for the benefit of Brown's family. Another meeting was also held at the same place last night, at which speeches were made by Dr. Howe, of Boston, and others. A resolution was passed, expressive of sympathy for the family of John Brown.
ROCHESTER, N.Y., Dec.3.
A large meeting was held at Corinthian Hall last evening, to signalize the execution of John Brown. Abram Pryne and Parker Pillsbury of delivered addresses, which were listened to with profound interest.
PLYMOUTH, 2d-11 A.M.
The bells of the several churches in this town are now being tolled, on account of the execution of John Brown.
CONCORD, N.H., 2d
The bells in this city were tolled at 11 o'clock, in commemoration of the hanging of John Brown.
NEW BEDFORD, 2d.
Great excitement exists here about the execution of John Brown. Several church bells are tolling, and there are numerous crowds in the principal streets.
ALBANY, 2d.
One Hundred Minute Guns were fired today commencing at half-past 12 o'clock, in commemoration of the execution of John Brown.
FITCHBURG. A John Brown sympathy meeting was held in Fitchburg on Friday evening. James B. Lane was chosen chairman and B. Show, Jr., clerk. Addresses were made by Revs. Elnathan Davis, Kendall Brooks, Wm. P. Tilden, George Trask, and Judson S. Brown, Esq. Resolutions of sympathy with John Brown and of abhorrence for slavery were passed.
ï¿½THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.ï¿½ Congress convened at Washington on Monday last. In the Senate, scarcely had the members taken their seats, before Mr. Mason, of Virginia, submitted the following resolution:-
Mr. Mason of Virginia submitted a resolution, which he would call up to-morrow, for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the facts attending the late invasion and seizure of the Armory and Arsenal at Harper's Ferry by a band of armed men, and report whether the same was attended by armed resistance to the authorities and public force of the United States, and the murder of any citizens of Virginia or any troops sent there to protect public property; whether such invasion was made under color of any organization intended to subvert the government of any of the States of the Union; the character and extent of such organization; whether any citizens of the United States, not present were implicated therein, or accessory thereto, by contributions of money, arms, ammunitions, or otherwise; the character and extent of the military equipments in the hands or under the control of said armed band; where, how and when the same were obtained and transported to the place invaded. Also, to report what legislation, if any, is necessary by the government for the future preservation of the peace of the country and the safety of public property-the Committee to have power to send for persons and papers.
Mr. Trumbull of Illinois gave notive that when the resolution came up, he should move to amend by extending the inquiry to the seizure of the Arsenal at Franklin, Mo.
The discussion upon this motion has been going on ever since, no action upon it having been taken.
In the House, three or four abortive attempts have been made to elect a Speaker-the Harper's Ferry affair exciting a hot debate, the South bullying and the North cowering as usual. There never will be a North until this slavery-ridden Union be dissolved.
COLUMBIA, S.C., Nov. 30.-The following resolutions were offered in the House to-day:
Resolved, That the State of South Carolina is ready to enter, together with the other slaveholding States, or such as may desire present action, into the formation of a Southern confederacy.
Resolved, That the Governor be requested to forward this resolution to the various Southern executives.
Another resolution was offered asking official information as to the condition of the State arsenals, arms, ammunition, number of men enrolled in the State militia, style of the arms, &c.
The Governor of South Carolina, in his Message showing the advantages of a united South, says-
ï¿½If, as I solemnly believe, we can no longer live in peace and harmony in the Union, we can form a confederacy with ability to protect itself against any enemy, and which will command the respect and admiration of the world.'
He then recommends such measures as will obtain the co-operation of the Southern States in concerted action in defence of their institutions whenever they may be put in jeopardy by all the departments of government passing into the hands of their enemies. The election of a Republican President, he says, he says, will settle the question of their safety in the Union.
PORTRAIT OF CAPTAIN BROWN.-Mr. Brainard has published an excellent likeness of Captain John Brown, which was drawn on stone by T.M. Johnston from a photograph taken in May last. It represents the old hero, with his flowing beard, as he appeared when he addressed a meeting of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, at the Tremont Temple, during Anniversary Week. Apart from the fidelity of the likeness, the picture is an excellent work of art, and reflects great credit upon the artist, who has completed the work in a very brief space of time. The publisher has very properly pledged a portion of the profits arising from the sale of the picture to the benefit of the family of John Brown.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE TRAGEDY IN VIRGINIA.
ARRIVAL OF MRS. BROWN.
Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
CHARLESTOWN, Va., Dec, 3,1859.
The events of last Thursday caused a more intense excitement than any that have been witnessed in Charlestown. The morning was occupied in the preparation of the field of death, which was marked out with military precision according to the plans of Gen. Taliaferro, with lines for the troops at the distance of fifty yards from the spot selected for the gallows, and distinct positions for the officers of the day, and the Commander-in-Chief. These arrangements were watched with great public interest, but their attraction ended at once, when, at noon, the knowledge that John Brown's wife was expected became general. Mrs. Brown had arrived in the morning at Harper's Ferry, and was anxious to proceed at once to Charles town, but the rigors of military discipline were not to be relaxed, and it was determined that her progress and arrival should be made the occasion of the most imposing warlike display that could be made. At 1 o' clock, twenty-five of Capt. Scott's cavalry corps-the Black Horse Rangers-surrounded the carriage in which Mrs. Brown was to be brought higher, and with much clashing of arms and glittering display, the procession departed. Three hours elapsed, during which the curiosity of the populace swelled near to bursting. At 4 o' clock, the return of the cavalcade was announced, and in an instant the road to the jail was thronged with hundreds of eager gazers. For a brief time the way was obstructed, and the carriage and escort paused before the head-quarters of the Commander-in-Chief, while a body of troops, with much pomp and circumstance, made clear the way, and formed a hollow square reaching from the carriage to the jail. As soon as all was ready, the cavalcade passed on, and, through double rows of pointed bayonets and amid thickly planted pieces of artillery, the grief stricken woman found her way to the door beyond which her 
husband, shackled and fettered, awaited her coming. By Captain Moore, who came with her to Harper's Ferry, she was led into the presence of Gen. Taliaferro, Sheriff Campbell, Mr. Andrew Hunter, and jailer Avis. Here the dreary dignities of formal reception were continued. For fifteen minutes stiff platitudes befell her. With singularly bad taste, the Commander-in-Chief assured her that if she should ever be disposed to visit Virginia again, he could cordially invite her to Charlestown, where she should receive true Southern hospitality. Soon after, she was taken aside by Mrs. Avis, and searched. The bolts were then withdrawn, and, accompanied by the jailer, Mrs. Brown went to meet her husband for the last time.
A few minutes before her admission, Stephens was removed from the Brown's cell, into one adjoining. In the little interval that remained, Capt. Moore entered to apprise Brown that his wife would soon be with him. Before he left, he asked Brown to endorse a check which had been handed to him by a gentleman who had accompanied Mrs. Brown from the North, but who had been left at the Ferry. The check read thus: 
No, 1. PHILADELPHIA, 11th Month, 30, 1859.
($50.) THE CONSOLIDATED BANK
Pay to JOHN BROWN (now of Virginia), or order, Fifty (00-100) Dollars JOHN H. CAVENDER.
Brown's indorsement, in his usual, firm, and bold characters, was as follows:
Pay to the order of MARY A. BROWN. JOHN BROWN.
Gen. Talliaferro, and the other gentleman constituting the committee of reception, then entered the cell for the purpose of informing Brown that his interview with his wife must of necessity be short. 'I hope,' said Brown 'that it may be two or three hours. 'I do not think,' said Gen. Talliaferro,' that I can grant so long a time.' 'Well,' answered Brown, 'I ask nothing of you, sir; I beg nothing from the State of Virginia. Carry out your orders, General that is enough. I am content.' The interview was, however, allowed to last four hours.
Mrs. Brown was led into the cell by the jailor. Her husband rose, and, as she entered, received her in his arms. No word was spoken; but, if we may believe Capt. Avis, their silence was more eloquent than any utterance could have been. For some minutes they stood speechless-Mrs. Brown resting her head upon her husband's breast, and clasping his neck with her arms. At length they sat down, and spoke; and from Capt. Avis, who was the only witness of that sorrowful scene, the following record comes:
John Brown spoke first. 'Wife, I am glad to see you.' he said.
'My dear husband, it is a hard fate.'
'Well, well; cheer up. We must all bear it in the best manner we can. I believe it is all for the best.'
'Our poor children; God help them.'
'Those that are dead to this world are angels in another. How are all those still living? Tell them their father died without a single regret for the course he has pursued that he is satisfied that he is right in the eyes of God and of all just men.'
Mrs. Brown then spoke of their remaining children, and their home. Brown's voice, as he alluded to the bereavements of his family, was broken with emotion. After a brief pause, Brown said:
'Mary, I would like you to get the bodies of our two boys who were killed at Harper's Ferry, also the bodies of the two Thompsons, and after I am dead, place us altogether on a wood pile, and set fire to the wood, burn the flesh, then collect our bones and put them in a large box, then have the box carried to our farm in Essex County, and there bury us.'
Mrs. Brown said, 'I really cannot consent to do this. I hope you will change your mind on this subject. I do not think permission would be granted to do any such thing. For my sake, think no more of such an idea.'
'Well, well,' Brown answered, 'do not worry or fret about it. I thought the plan would save considerable expense, and was the best.'
Mrs. Brown then spoke of Gerrit Smith, and asked if her husband had heard of the affliction that had visited him. Brown answered:
'Yes, I have read something about it.'
'Do you know that he is now in Utica?' asked Mrs. Brown. 
'Yes, I have been so informed; he was a good friend, and I exceedingly regret his mirfortune. How is he? Have you heard from him lately ?'
Yes, I heard direct from him a few days ago. He was thought to be improving.'
'I am really glad to hear it.'
Nothing more was said upon this subject.
The conversation then turned upon matters of business, which Brown desired to have arranged after his death. He gave his wife all the letters and papers 
which were needed for this purpose, and read to her the will which had been drawn up for him by Mr. Hunter, carefully explaining every portion of it. The document is as follows:
CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson County, Va., December 1, 1859. 
I give to my son, John Brown, jr., my surveyor's compass and other surveyor's articles, if found; also, my old granite monument, now at North Elba, N. Y., to receive upon its two sides a further inscription, as I will hereafter direct; said stone monument, however, to remain at North Elba so long as any of my children and my wife may remain there as residents.
I give to my son Jason Brown, my silver watch, with my name engraved on inner case.
I give to my son Owen Brown, my double-spring opera-glass, and my rifle-gun (if found), presented to me at Worcester, Mass. It is globe-sighted and new, I give, also, to the same son, $50 in cash, to be paid him from the proceeds of my father's estate, in consideration of his terrible suffering in Kansas, and his crip pled condition from his childhood.
I give to my son Solomon Brown $50 in cash, to be paid him from my father's estate, as an offset to the first two cases above named.
I give to my daughter, Ruth Thompson, my large old Bible, containing the family record. 
I give to each of my sons, and to each of my other daughters, my son-in-law, Henry Thompson, and to each of my daughters-in-law, as good a copy of the Bible as can be purchased at some bookstore in New York or Boston, at a cost of $5 each in cash; to be paid out of the proceeds of my father's estate. 
I give to each of my grandchildren that may be living when my father's estate is settled, as good a copy of the Bible as can be purchased (as above) at a cost of $3 each.
All the Bibles to be purchased at one and the same time, for cash, on the best terms.
I desire to have ($50) fifty dollars each paid out of the final proceeds of my father's estate, to the following named persons, to wit:-To Allen Hammond, Esq., of Rockville, Tolland County, Conn., or to Geo, Kellogg, Esq., former agent of the New England Company at that place, for the use and benefit of that company. Also, $50 to Silas Havens, formerly of Lewisburg, Summit County, O., if he can 
be found also, $50 to a man of Stark County, O., at Canton, who sued my father in his lifetime, through Judge Humphrey and Mr. Upson of Akron, to be paid by J. R. Brown to the man in person, if he can be found. His name I cannot remember. My father made a compromise with the man by taking our house and lot at Mannerville, I desire that any remaining balance that may become my due from my father's estate may be paid in equal amounts to my wife, and to each of my children, and to the widows of Watson and Owen Brown, by my brother.
JOHN AVIS, Witness JOHN BROWN.
<c02>
In reference to the tombstone here alluded to, Brown appeared very anxious. The inscription was drawn up by Brown himself, and handed to his wife, who has it in her possession. Speaking of the parties to whom sums are directed to be paid, he said:-'Dear Mary, if you can find these, pay them personally, but do not pay any one who may present himself as their attorneys, for if it gets into the hands of attorneys, we do not know what will become of it.'
After this, Mr. and Mrs. Brown took supper together. This occupied only a few minutes. Brown then touched upon other business affairs, until an order was received from the Commander-in-Chief, saying that the interview must terminate. Brown then said:- 'Mary, I hope you will always live in Essex County. I hope you will be able to get all our children together, and impress the inculcations of right principles to each succeeding generation. I give you all the letters and papers which have been sent me since my arrest. I wish you also to take all my clothes that are here, and carry them home. Good bye, good bye! God bless you!'
The bitterness of parting was brief. Mrs. Brown was led away with the utmost consideration by Capt. Avis, and, soon after 8 o'clock, was on her way again to Harper's Ferry. During the passage, Capt. Moore, who sat beside her, did not fail to present to her arguments in favor of the blessings of slavery-pointing out, by way of example, a troop of negroes disporting by the roadside.
After his wife's departure, Brown wrote until midnight, when he retired. At daybreak he resumed his labor with undiminished energy. At 10 1-2 o'clock! he was called upon to prepare for his death. He took leave of all his fellow-prisoners, affectionately bidding farewell to all, excepting Cook, toward whose want of good faith he was not disposed to be indulgent, and Hazlitt, with whom he would acknowledge no acquaintance. At 11 o'clock he was brought from the jail, and, surrounded by a guard of cavalry, conducted to the scaffold. He mounted the wagon in which he was conveyed with the same calmness he has shown during all the days of his captivity. He sat, with Capt. Avis, upon the pine box which contained his coffin. Upon reaching the gailows he walked, never faltering in his step, to the platform, and waited in silence for the completion of the necessary arrangements. When the cap was about to be put over his head, he bade farewell to those who stood by him with evident deep feeling. In the adjustment of the rope, Capt. Avis was as speedy as was possible, Brown remaining all the while motionless. I know that everyone within view was greatly impressed with the dignity of his bearing. I have since heard men of the South say that his courageous fortitude and insensibility to fear filled them with amazement.
In a few moments Capt. Avis led Brown upon the trap, and announced that all was ready. Then instead of permitting the execution to be at once consummated, the proceedings were checked, and the hideous mockery of a vast military display began. For ten minutes at the least, under the orders of the commanding officer, the troops trod heavily over the ground, hither and thither, now advancing toward the gallows, now turning about in sham defiance of an imaginary enemy. All this while, Brown stood motionless, answering only to Capt. Avis that he was not tired, but wished to be kept no longer than they; found necessary. At length the valor of Virginia was satisfied, the soldiers resumed their positions, and the last command was given.
Mrs. Brown observed a chain about the ankles of her husband. To avoid its galling his limbs, he had put on two pairs of woolen socks. Mrs. Brown said she was desirous of procuring the chain as a family relic. She had already at her home the one with which the limbs of John Brown, Jr., were inhumanly shackled in Kansas, and in which he was goaded on by the Border devils until he was mad, and the chain had worn through his flesh to the bone; and this, too, she desired. Capt. Brown said he had himself I asked that it be given to his family, and had
been refused. Capt. Brown gave her his papers and some of his effects before they parted. The effects were but few, and I have not learned what they were.
As he handed the papers to her in the cell he said: 'I have something else to add to my statement; perhaps I will have time to do it to-morrow.' And, turning to Capt. Avis, he said: ' What is the hour to-morrow?' 'Eleven o'clock,' was the answer in a solemn tone.
On looking over the papers received to-day with the body, Mrs. Brown found an/ addendum in his handwriting, beginning, 'I have time to add,' &c, indicating that it must have been written just before he left the jail for the scaffold. The document referred to the affairs of his family.
He requested his wife to make a denial of the statement that had gained publicity, that he had said in his interview with Gov. Wise that he had been actuated by feelings of revenge. He denied that he had ever made such a statement, and wished his denial made known; and he denied further that such base motives had ever been his incentive to action.
While Mrs. Brown was still present, her husband partook of his last supper, which she shared with him. It was of the plain jail fare, prepared so as to be eaten with his fingers; knife and fork were denied him in the fear that he might use them for self-destruction.
Their last sorrowful meal being concluded, and the time approaching at which they must part, Mrs. Brown asked to be permitted to speak to the other prisoners. But Gen. Talliaferro's orders forbade this, though Capt. Avis expressed a willingness to permit her to see them, even at the risk of violating orders. She declined to see them, under the circumstances. The prisoners were much gratified to learn this fact, and I was informed by Capt. Avis that Coppic wrote a beautiful and feeling letter to Mrs. Brown during the morning. It was remarkable for its allusions to Capt. Brown and his trials, and the fullness of sympathy expressed for her and the members of her family, without mentioning his own situation at all.

THE EXECUTION OF CAPT. BROWN.
The execution was in the highest degree imposing and solemn, and without disturbance of any kind. Lines of patrols and pickets encircled the field for ten miles around, and over five hundred troops were post ed all about the gallows. At 7 o'clock in the morning, workmen began to erect the scaffold, the timber having been hauled the night previous. At 8, troops began to arrive. Troopers were posted around the field at fifty feet apart, and two lines of sentries further in. The troops did not form hollow around the gallows, but were so disposed as to command every approach. The sun shone brightly, and the picture presented to the eye was really splendid. As each company arrived, it took its allotted position. On the easterly side were the Cadets, with their right wing flanked by a detachment of men with howitzers; on the northeast, the Richmond Grays; on the south, Company F of Richmond; on the north, the Winchester Continentals; and to preserve order in the crowd, the Alexander Riflemen and Capt. Gibson's Rockingham, Company were stationed at the entrance gate, and on the outskirts. At 11 o'clock, the procession came in eight, and at once all conversation and noise ceased. A dead stillness reigned over the field, and the tramp of the approaching troops alone broke the silence. The escort of the prisoner was composed of Capt. Scott's company of cavalry, one company of Major Loring's battalion of defencibles, Capt. Williams's Montpelier Guard, Capt. Scott's Petersburg Grays, Company D, Capt. Miller, of the Virginia Vol unteers, and Young Guard, Capt. Rady, the whole under the command of Col. T. P. August, assisted by Major Loring the cavalry at the head and rear of he column.
The prisoner sat upon the box which contained his coffin, and, although pale from confinement, seemed strong. The wagon in which he rode was drawn by two white horses. From the time of leaving jail until he mounted the gailows stairs, he wore a smile upon his countenance, and his keen eye took in every detail of the scene. There was no blenching, nor the remotest approach to cowardice or nervousness. His remarks have not been correctly reported in the Balti more and New York papers.' As he was leaving jail, when asked if he thought he could endure his fate, he said, 'I can endure almost anything but parting from friends; that is very hard.' On the road to the scaffold, he said, in reply to an inquiry, 'It has been a characteristic of me from infancy not to suffer from physical fear. I have suffered a thousand times more from bashfulness than from fear.' On entering the field he said, as if surprised, 'I see all persons are excluded from the field except the military.' I was very near the old man, and scrutinized him closely. He seemed to take in the whole scene at a glance, and he straightened himself up proudly, as if to set to the soldiers an example of a soldier's courage. The only motion he made, beyond a swaying to and fro of his body, was that same patting of his knees with his hands that we noticed throughout his trial and while in jail. As he came upon an eminence near the gallows, he cast his eyes over the beautiful landscape, and followed the windings of the Blue Ridge Mountains in the distance. He looked up earnestly at the sun and sky, and all about, and then remarked, ' This is a beautiful country. I have not cast my eye over it before-that is, while passing through the field.' The cortege passed half around the gallows to the east side, where it halted. The troops composing the escort took up their assigned position, but the Petersburg Grays, as the immediate body-guard, remained as before, closely hemming in the prisoner. They finally opened ranks to let him pass out, when, with the assistance of two men, he descended from the
<c03>
wagon, bidding good bye to those within it; and then, with firm step and erect form, he strode part Jailor, Sheriff, and officers, and was the first person to mount the scaffold steps. He then looked about him, principally in the direction of the people, in the far distance. Then to Capt. Avis, his jailor, he said, 'I have no more words to thank you for all your kindness to me.' To Sheriff Campbell he remarked, 'Let there be no more delay than is necessary.' His black slouched hat was then removed, his elbows and ankles were pinioned, and the white hood was drawn over his head. The Sheriff requested him to step forward on the trap. He said, 'You have put this thing over my head, and I cannot see; you must lead me.' There are eight minutes of suspense, while the stupid cavalry are trying to find their proper position. Impatient at the delay, Col. Scott gives the signal, Sheriff Campbell seven the rope with his hatchet, the trap falls with a horrid screech of its hinges, and the unfortunate man swings off into the air.
There was but one spasmodic effort of the hands to clutch at the neck, but for nearly five minutes the limbs jerked and quivered. He seemed to retain an extraordinary hold upon life. One who has seen numbers of men hung before, told me he had never seen so hard a struggle. After the body had dangled in mid air for twenty minutes, it was examined by the surgeons for signs of life. First the Charlestown physicians went up and made their examination, and after them the military surgeons, the prisoner being executed by civil power and with military assistance as well. To see them lifting up the arms, now powerless, that once were so strong, and placing their ears to the breast of the corpse, holding it steady by passing an arm around it, was revolting in the extreme.
And so the body dangled and swung by its neck, turning to this side or that when moved by the surgeons, and swinging, pendulum like, from the force of the south wind that was blowing, until, after thirty-eight minutes from the time of swinging off, it was ordered to be cut down, the authorities being quite satisfied that their dreaded enemy was dead. The body was lifted upon the scaffold, and fell into a heap as limp as a rag. It was then put into the black walnut coffin, the body guard closed in about the wagon, the cavalry led the van, and the mournful procession moved off.
Throughout the whole sad proceeding, the utmost order and decorum reigned. I think that when the prisoner was on the gallows, words in ordinary tones night have been heard all over the forty-acre field. In less than fifteen minutes the whole military force had left the field of execution, a dozen sentries alone,
perhaps, remaining. The towns-people having been kept at a considerable distance, and none from the country about being allowed to approach nearer 
than a mile, there were not, I think, counting soldiers and civilians, more than a thousand spectators. A great feeling of exasperation prevails in consequence of this foolish stringency, and it is a wonder that conflicts have not arisen between the citizens and their protectors.
John Brown, although at times willing to argue with the local clergy upon religious matters, has absolutely rejected all appearance of spiritual comfort at their hands, ever maintaining that those who were capable of countenancing Slavery, were not fit to come between him and his God. The other day, he said, that instead of any clergyman of Charlestown, if they would suffer him to be followed to the place of execution by a family of little negro children, headed by a pious slave mother, it would be all he would ask. The New York Herald reports him to have said when told that his wife could not remain with him more than three or four hours, 'I want this favor from the State of Virginia.' This is incorrect, for with the same noble independence which he has ever displayed, he said, proudly, 'Oh, I don't ask any favors of the State of Virginia. You must do your duty.' When the husband and wife parted, she shed some tears, but the old hero, patting her on the shoulder, said, 'Mary, this is not right. Show that you have nerves.' She is said to have straightened herself up as if electrified, and wept no more. The body left Charlestown under escort in the afternoon, and at Harper's Ferry was delivered up to Mrs. Brown.
Like a string that snaps after great tension, the public mind at Charlestown seemed relieved the moment that the body had been returned to the jail,. The extra sentries were called in, and people were suffered once more to pass in and out of town with tolerable freedom. The dread is not all removed yet, however, for every night, mysterious lights are seen to shoot up in the direction of Harper's Ferry, which are answered elsewhere. Despite all vigilance and search, no cause can be imagined, and it is, therefore, believed that parties of rescuers are patiently biding their time to take revenge, when fancied security once more prevails. It is said that there can be no shadow of doubt that large bodies of armed men have been hovering very near to Charlestown, and the remaining prisoners are guarded with the most jealous vigilance Yesterday morning orders were issued that no more visitors shall be admitted to the prisoners, they having implored the authorities to give them their little remaining time for reflection.
Another correspondent of the Tribuns, describing the tragical scene, says:-
The scaffold is approached. He alights from the wagon and ascends to the platform, which last sustains Old John Brown alive. There is no faltering in
 his step, but firmly and erect he stands amid the almost breathless lines of soldiery that surround him With a graceful motion of his pinioned right arm, he takes the slouched hat from his head, and carelessly casts it upon the platform by his side. The cap is drawn over his eyes, and the rope adjusted about his neck. John Brown is ready to meet his God.
But what next? The military have yet to go through some senseless evolutions, and near ten minutes elapse before Gen. Taliaferro's chivalrous hosts are in their proper position, during which time John Brown stands with the cap drawn over his head, and the hangman's knot under his ear.
Each moment seems an hour, and some of the people, unable to restrain an expression of their sense of the outrage, murmur 'Shame! 'Shame!'
At last, the Virginia troops are arranged a la mode. 'Capt. Brown, you are not standing on the drop- will you come forward?' said the Sheriff.
'I can't see, gentlemen,' was the reply; ' you must lead me.' 
The Sheriff led his prisoner forward to the centre of the drop. 
'Shall I give you a handkerchief, and let you drop it as a signal?' inquired the Sheriff.
'No; I am ready at any time; but don't keep me waiting needlessly,' was the reply. 
A moment after, the Sheriff springs the latch-the drop falls-and the body of John Brown is suspended between heaven and earth. A few convulsive twitchings of the arms are observed. These cease after a moment. John Brown is dead.
The majesty of Virginia law and the exactions of Virginia vengeance are now satisfied-but time alone will tell whether Virginia peace will be conserved by it.
The surgeon say he died easily-that the neck was not dislocated, but the spinal column was ruptured, and that his death was probably instantaneous. What is unusual in executions, (so I am informed, for this was the first I ever witnessed,) his legs were not drawn up by convulsive twitchings.
The body remained suspended about 38 minutes and was then taken down and placed in the coffin.
The last words of Brown were understood to be:-' I die alone responsible for my own operations, and ask for no sympathy. I am satisfied in my own belief-but desire no other man to believe as I do, unless his conscience and philosophy approve. I am singly responsible for my own acts, good or bad. If right or wrong, the consequence rests only upon myself.'
THE REMAINS OF JOHN BROWN.The mortal remains of John Brown passed through Philadelphia on Saturday afternoon, with as much secrecy as possible. The remains were in charge of the widow of Brown, who was accompanied by Messrs. Hector Tindall and Miller Mc Kim of Philadelphia, who went South with Mrs. Brown. The Mayor and a large police force were in attendance. The coffin was placed in a covered wagon, which was followed to the steamboat landing by a great crowd of people, most of them colored. The corpse arrived at New York on Saturday evening, accompanied by Mrs. Brown and one of her sons. In order to avoid the crowd, the coffin was kept at the steamboat landing until two o'clock on Sunday on morning, when it was quietly conveyed to an undertaker's office in the Bowery. During the afternoon, the place of deposit became known, and a crowd gathered at once, strong efforts being made to obtain admittance to view the body. The police, however, dispersed the gathering The lid of the coffin was removed, and several persons were admitted. The Times says:
The features would have been instantly recognized as those of John Brown by any one who bad seen his photograph. They were not in the least distorted, and were a calm expression as of one asleep. The lids were closed naturally, and there was a slight bruise perceptible on the side of the right eye. The body was dressed in the clothes in which it was executed' 
ALBANY, Dec.5 The body of John Brown. accompanied by Mrs. Brown and Wendell Phillips, passed through this city to-day, arriving in the ears at noon, and leaving at six o'clock for its destination, Little or no excitement was created during the time the body remained at the depot. The funeral takes place Thursday at North Elbs.
<c04>
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE. 
In the Senate, on Friday, after prayer by the chaplain, Mr. Luce, of the Island district, moved that in view of the fact that this was the day for the execution of John Brown, the Senate do now adjourn. The motion was lost; yeas 8, nays 11. After transacting some other unimportant business, the same gentleman renewed his former motion, which was again lost after debate; yeas 12, nays 20. Mr. Walker, of Hampden, then moved to adjourn simply, without stating any reason; but this was negatived, yeas 11, nays 20.
In the House of Representatives-
Mr. Ray, of Nantucket, offered a motion of the purport that, for the great respect we have for the truthfulness and faith that John Brown has in man and his religion, and the strong sympathy for the love, of liberty (the avowed principle of Massachusetts) for which he is this day to die, this House do now adjourn.
Mr. Spofford, of Newburyport, took the floor, and spoke at length in opposition to the motion, as being improper, and exhibiting a false sympathy for a man who had transgressed the laws of his State, and for which he was about to pay the forfeit of his life. 
Mr. Griffin, of Malden, thought there was no occasion for gentlemen to get into a white heat about the simple motion to adjourn. He did not believe there was a person who would not walk to the State of Virginia to arrest the arm of the traitor who should make a stab at that frightened community. Suppose we should receive intelligence that the angel of death was dealing with some other 'saint' whom we all hold in remembrance, it would be no reason for adjournment. He thought the business of legislation should not be arrested, and he concluded by moving an indefinite postponement of the motion.
Mr. Spofford observed that the whole thing was a pitiable and shameful pretence. No such demonstration was made to honor the memory of Washington Irving, who had just departed this life, and was a national loss of immense importance.
Mr. Wentworth, of Lowell, congratulated the House that the nation had so able a defender as the gentleman from Newburyport. He thought the Union was safe, and was as much in favor of the Constitution as though he had 'apostrophized the codfish,' like the gentleman from Newburyport. He was ready to agree to all that was proper in the conduct of John Brown. No execution for treason had ever before occurred since the formation of the government.
Massachusetts had insurrections and trials, but never an execution; Pennsylvania had insurrections, trials, convictions, and one man was sentenced to death-a German. He was pardoned by the President of the United States. Virginia has her insurrections, trials, and John Brown has been sentenced to death. Let that Commonwealth execute him in the face of the world. Mr. Wentworth concluded by saying that he should vote against adjournment.
Mr. Tucker, of Boston, said that he condemned the wicked madness of John Brown, and pitied his folly. He asked if Anthony Burns was peaceably surrendered, and said that it was at the mouth of the cannon, and the blood of Bachelder still stained the walls of the Court House. He remarked that the tone of the Southern papers was mild, compared with that of the Northern Abolitionists. He deprecated the action of the latter, and considered that the slave had received no benefit from the coarse they had taken.
Mr. Beals, of Weymouth, was opposed to adjournment, but was ready to vote to give the family of John Brown the pay of this day, and suggested that the members should go to the Throne of Grace, and remember him in their prayers.
Mr. Upton, of Salem, moved the previous question, and it was ordered.
The motion to strike out the preamble was carried by a vote of 104 yeas to 31 nays.
The question was then taken upon adjournment, which was negatived by a vote of 141 nays to 6 yeas.
THE FEELING OF THE PEOPLE.
Charlestown, Va. correspondent of the Tribune.
The sensation throughout this community is one of the most deep and significant nature. It has awakened intense thought in the minds of men where there had been nothing but immobility, and I have heard Southern men hinting strongly whether the institution of Slavery pays-if twenty men can create so widespread a panic-paralyze the industry-excite the fears of the women and children of the entire State- make martial law a matter of necessity for weeks over an entire county, and saddle a tax of near half a million upon the State. These are practical phases of this question. Add to these the fact that barns, and grain, and haystacks are being burned at short inter vals, and the mental anarchy has a significance; and from many years' residence in the Southern States, I am confident that the day of emancipation has been hastened. No doubt exists among the people here that the slaves are the incendiaries in these cases, and they admit that it is only pretence that there exists no dissatisfaction among the blacks.
Of course, there the act of Capt. Brown is condemned, and most emphatically condemned, but much more is said in commendation of his bravery and courage than condemnation of his act. An officer of the U. S. Navy at Charlestown remarked in my hearing that he would give a vast deal to be as brave a man. 
CHARLESTOWN, Va., Dec. 4th. 
Six companies of the Richmond and Wheeling military have been ordered home, and about one fourth of the members of the other companies have obtained furlough for ten days, to return before the 16th to attend the other executions. A military force will thus be kept up, and martial law enforced throughout the country. The excitement has greatly abated, though there is a great feeling of insecurity in the rural districts. The weather is cold and wet, and the military are suffering greatly on picket guard and in their uncomfortable quarters.
TWELVE HARPER'S FERRY INSURGENTS IN CANADA.
The Muscatine Journal learns that the mother of Edwin and Barclay Coppic, who resides in Springdale, Cedar county, Iowa, has received a letter from the latter, who is now in Canada, stating that he and eleven of his companions have arrived safely in her Britannic Majesty's dominions. Four of them were wounded-one of them so severely that his comrades were obliged to carry him most of the time for the first four days of their flight. Barclay Coppic is one of the number for whose arrest Gov. Wise offered a reward of $500 each.
The New York Times Paris correspondent writes, under date of November 17th:
'Mr. Seward arrived here five days ago from his trip to Jerusalem and the Holy Land, and is in good health and spirits. He indignantly denies ever having even heard of the projected insurrection at Harper's Ferry, and although he half recollects having received a call from a man known as Col. Forbes, there was no mention made of such an attempt at in surrection. Col. Forbes asked him for means for another object, which he refused, and that was all he ever saw of the individual in question. Mr. Seward goes home in the Arago in December.'
The Hon. Joshua R. Giddings has visited the afflicted family of Mr. Smith at Peterboro'; and after obtaining that information which enables him to speak confidently of facts, in a letter dated Peterboro, Nov. 14, to The Ashtabula Sentinel, Mr. G. says of Mr. S.:
'I learned that under his excessive labors his health failed some two months since; that he has been afflicted with dyspepsia, which of itself falls little short of insanity; that his physician, and the physician of the Asylum, agree that his insanity is owing to ill health, and that he will recover as they may be able to restore his physical system to its proper tone. 
'A lawyer of character told me that six weeks since he was at Mr. Smith's office on business, and spent some time with him, and so strongly was be impressed with the fact that this eminent philanthropist was then suffering from monomania, that he stated to his partner that such was unquestionably the fact.
'His family, however, did not like to acknowledge such to be the case, until the news of the raid at Harper's Ferry became known. On receiving intelligence of Brown's capture, he seemed anxious to go at once, and share in Brown's captivity and suffering. The idea that he was alarmed at the prospect of Governor Wise sending a demand for him is entirely erroneous. He understood his rights as well as any man, and had no apprehension of that character. On the contrary, his anxiety to go there was the first decided proof which he gave of insanity. They could only induce him to go to Utica by assuring him that he would be permitted to continue his journey to Virginia. 
'He retains all his prominent traits of character, is kind, affectionate, eloquent in conversation, speaks in the highest terms of Brown, etc.
'Everybody now speaks well-indeed, they speak in the highest terms-of Gerrit Smith. I have not heard an individual express any other than profound respect for him, for his manly virtues, for his pure religious life, his nobleness of character. All men throughout the State mourn over this sad affliction which now rests upon the community.
'I am pleased to say that Mr. Smith appears to view this matter in its true light. He bears up under it with great patience, and so do all the members of his family. J. R. G.'
The rope for the execution of Brown, says the Baltimore Patriot, was made in Kentucky, by a Kentucky, expressly for the purpose, and sent to Gov. Wise, who accepted it.
<c05>
JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY. The undersigned having, at a meeting held in Tremont Temple, on the 19th inst., been appointed a Committee to take charge of such funds as may be tendered for the benefit of JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY, are ready to receive donations for that object, to which they shall be faithfully applied. Contributions may be sent to the Treasurer, or to either of the undersigned in Boston.
S. E. SEWALL, Chairman, 46 Washington street; 
JOHN R. MANLEY, Treasurer, 24 Dock square;
GEORGE BIGELOW, 23 Essex street;
JOHN AYRES, 11 Liberty square.
HUMPHREY JAMESON, 484 Washington st.
 Boston, Nov. 23, 1859. 
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Maasachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made in January last, or previously to that time, are now payable; and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest praticable day.
All donations, in furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, will be faithfully applied to the swelling of that Just and Righteous Public Sentiment, before which SLAVERY cannot stand, and must fall.
All payments to be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent, 21 Cornhill, Boston.
ADVERTISEMENT.-A young woman from Demarara, who has lilved several years in this country, wishes to return to her native land; and, in order to support herself there and help her mother, she has a very earnest desire to learn the milliner's trade. Her brown complexion has hitherto frustrated all her efforts for that purpose. Is there any one, who has sufficient good sense and good feeling to rise above this absurd prejudice, and aid her in her laudable undertaking? She is a person of intelligence, reliable principles, good manners, and industrious habits. She is a very neat seamstress, and has general capacity. If she cannot learn a trade, she would like a situation as parlor girl, or chamber maid. Please give an early reply to L. MARIA CHILD, Wayland, Mass.
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY FOR WOMEN.-County Woman's Rights Conventions, to be addressed by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Lucy N. Colman and others, will be held as follows:-
Havanna, Schylkill Co., Friday, Dec 9. 
Horse-Heads, Chemung Co., Tuesday, Dec. 13.
Pen Yan, Yates Co., Tuesday, Dec. 20.
Lyons. Wayne Co., Tuesday, Dec. 27.
By Mrs. Tracy Cutler and J. Elizabeth Jones:
Angelica, Alleghany Co., Tuesday, Dec. 6.
Ellicottville, Cattaraugus Co., Tuesday, Dec, 13
Jamestown, Chatauque Co., Tuesday, Dec. 20
Collins Centre, Erie Co., Tuesday, Dec. 20
Each of the above meetings will be at 2 and 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day named.
THE VIRGINIA TRAGEDY?
An Anti-Slavery Meeting will be held in the Reformed Dutch Church, at EASTON, Washington Co., N. Y., on FRIDAY, Dec. 16.
Sessions at 2 o'clock and 7 o'clock, P. M.
Leonard Gibbs, Esq., and others, will address the meeting.
These are historic times! Let there be a great gathering of the friends of Freedom!
A PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW FOR THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
AARON M. POWELL will speak as follows:
Baliston, Tuesday, December 13.
Saratoga, Wednesday, December 14.
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL COURSE OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
The Second Lecture of this series will be given by Rev. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAM, of Portland, Me., on Sunday evening next, 11th December, in Lyceum Hall. Subject-' The Harper's Ferry Tragedy.'
Lecture to commence at 7 o'clock. 
Single admission, 5 cents. 
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. See. 
Salem, Dec. 9.
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR:
OR, LOW WAGES AND HARD WORK. 
THREE Lectures by Mrs. C. H. DALL, as follows:
I. Death or Dishonor.
II. Verify your Credentials.
III. 'The Opening of the Gates.'
Forming a thorough examination,-with abundant and interesting 'Facts and Figures,'-for the whole question of Woman's labor. 1 vol. 16mo. Paper, 50 cents: cloth, 63 cents. Sent by mail, post paid, on receipt of the price.
Just published, by WALKER, WISE & CO., 245 Washington street, Boston.
Dec 9. 2wis.
PILLS AND POWDERS.
FORTY YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS THEREOF.
By the late Dr. Wm. A. Alcott. Is one of the most amusing and instructive books of the year. Price $1.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., Publishers,
No. 20 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 18. 4w
Dunallan and Father Clement, 
IN two handsome 12mo, volumes, from new type, being the first and only American edition of those admirable old English Novels from the graceful and elegant pen of GRACE KENNEDY.
Price $1 per volume, bound in cloth.
Published by JOHN P JEWETT & CO.,
No. 20 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 18. 4w
Another Slander Nailed to the Counter.
IT has been so often said that most people now believe it, That cultivators of the soil do not read. 
The fact that in so short a time THREE EDITIONS each of COPELAND'S COUNTRY LIFE and DR. DADD'S NEW CATTLE DOCTOR have been called for, gives the lie to this libel upon our intelligent yeomanry. These books should be in the hands of every man who cultivates an acre of ground, or owns a cow.
Price of Country Life, third edition, $2 50
Price." Dr. Dadd's New Cattle Doctor, third edition, 1 00
Agents could make money by selling these valuable works.
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co., Publishers, 
No. 20 Washington st., Boston.
Nov. 18. 4wis
The Original 'Sensation Book,' 
ALL others, excepting 'THE LAMPLIGHTER,' being mere abortive imitations. A new edition of 'UNCLE' TOM'S CABIN,' 310th Edition, making a sale of THREE HUNDRED AND TEN THOUSAND COPIES of this unrivalled book. Price ' $1 50 for the two volumes, with portraits of the Author and Little Eva.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., Publishers, 
No. 20 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 1. 4wis
CARPETING.
'All the Year Round,'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
 (NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocon Mattings. 
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash  or approved credit. 
Sept. 16 
<c06>
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES
IN PRESS:
THE LIFE Of
CAPT. JOHN BROWN
THE
LIBERATOR OF KANSAS
AND THE
Hero of Harper's Ferry.
BY JAMES REDPATH
AN elegant 12 mo. volume of 400 pages, illustrated, and embellished with a superb
STEEL PORTRAIT
OF THE 
GLORIOUS OLD MAN
This book will be issued before the first of January, 1860, and will be a work of thrilling and fascinating interest. Price, $1.00. A liberal per centage of the
PROFITS
resulting from its publication will be
Given to the family of Brown.
THOUSANDS OF AGENTS
will be wanted to supply the demand in every town, village and hamlet, throughout the country.
Address, THAYER & ELDRIDGE, Publishers
Nos. 114 and 116 WASHINGTON STREET.
N25  3wBOSTON, MASS.
Portrait of John Brown.
Will be published, on FRIDAY, DEC. 2d, by
CHARLES H. BRAINARD,
322 WASHINGTON STREET
A magnificent lithographic portrait of JOHN BROWN, drawn by Thomas M. Johnston, from a photograph taken for T. H. Webb, Esq., and the last picture for which the old hero ever sat.
A liberal portion of the profits will be given to the family of Captain Brown.
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR.
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price.
For sale by Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street; Elliot & White, 322 Washington street; Wm. C. Nell, 21 Cornhill; and by printsellers generally. 
D2 2w
Ayer's Sarsaparilla, 
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sartaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and. that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our affected fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEWRALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROS OF Sr. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD. 
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester is the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but mere because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the disease it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED By
DR. J. C. AVER & CO. 
LOWELL, MASS. 
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills, 
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiceness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, <Illegible> Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per <Illegible>; Five boxes for $1.00
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the incertain of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Conoord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine everywhere. 6m May7.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS
21 Cronhill BOSTON.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE QUAKING SOUTH,
They told us that their Southern land was fairest of the fair, 
That beauty, worth and chilvaky were fondly murtured there; 
The prowess of her gullant sens was blaxoned far and wide, 
And her daughters were all loveliness, her glory and her pride.
Her patriotic statesmen, with ever watchful eye, 
The least approach of danger were ready to desery;
Th lofty roof and lowly were ever guarded well, 
And penury and pining want had no leave there to dwell.
Her social state was based on the eternal laws of heaven,
And all in every station shared that which was just and even;
The master o'er the servants kept a patriarchal care, 
And they in turn bestowed on him affection true and rare.
These things have oft been told us-we heard them long ago,
And Rabbis from the North went down, and found it even so: 
They homeward came delighted, to tell the gladsome news, 
And hold the North to strict account for her distorted views.
And sure 'tis thousand pities such a picture should be spoiled,-
That in this modern Eden a serpent should lie coiled,
Ready to spring forth suddenly, and break the fatal charm, 
And by his hissing, poisonous breath to scatter wide alarm.
The lovely picture now reversed, and what do we behold? 
Paleness is stamped upon each face-the blood is running cold:
A cry of insurrection is ringing wild and clear, 
And boasted heroism now yields to inglorious fear.
The terror-stricken wife implores protection from her lord,
But poor is the protection he's able to afford; 
He points her to his pistols, well charged and always sure,
And vainly hopes to pacify that dread which knows no cure.
O God! hast thou e'er promised that lasting peace should reign
Where millions in thine image must wear oppression's chain?
The rolling thunders in the sky give their loud answer-NO!
'Twould thrill the boundless universe if it were ever so.
The firm conditions are imposed, on which alone depend
The safety that we hope for to keep us to the end; 
These are, a firm adherence to justice, truth and right,
And ever keeping carefully the Golden Rule in sight. 
J. W. PILLSBURY.
From the Patterson, (N. J.) Guardian.
'OLD JOHN BROWN.'
BY GIBBS A. CAMPBELL.
Swing up the traitor! let him die! 
Truth, honer and sincerity 
Are treason to Virginia's laws. 
Are fatal to Virginia's cause, 
And he who doth true courage show 
Strikes an unpardonable blow. 
Swing up the traitor! for the deed's 
Demanded by Virginia's needs; 
And all her broad dominion lies 
In deepest peril till he dies! 
The truest man ye ever saw 
Hang by Virginia's glorious law!
Swing up the traitor! Who shall dare 
Henceforth to taint Virginia's air 
With freedom's word or honor's breath? 
Behold for such, a traitor's death! 
As symbol of her sovereignty, 
Virginia hoists the gallows tree.
Switg up the traitor! though he be
Captive, yet conqueror is he!
The blow he struck destroyed your power,
And prophesied the coming hour 
When Heaven's avenging wrath shall fall,
And wrap your land in ruin's pall.
That prophecy ye heard aright! 
Your lips with terror become white; 
For every North wind's breath ye feel; 
Now seems your certain doom to seal, 
And every midnight sound ye hear, 
Your souls shall paralyze with fear!
Oh! glorious traitor! out to thee
Gushes my full heart's sympathy! 
Heroic martyr! from thy tomb 
Shall speak the awful voice of doom; 
For thou hast, through all coming time, 
Made treason holy and sublime!

From the New York Independent.
THE VIRGINIA SCAFFOLD.
Rear on high the scaffold altar! all the world will turn to see
How a man has dared to suffer that his brothers may be free!
Rear it on some hill-side looking North and South and East and West,
Where the wind from every quarter fresh may blow upon his breast,
And the sun look down unshaded from the chill December sky,
Glad to shine upon the hero who for Freedom dared to die!
All the world will turn to see him;-from the pines of wave-washed Maine
To the golden riven rolling over California's plain, 
And from clear Superior's waters where the wild swan loves to sail 
To the Gulf-lands, summer-bosomed, fanned by ocean's softestgale,-
Every heart will beat the faster in its sorrow or its scorn, 
For the man nor courts nor prisons can annoy another morn!
And from distant elimes and nations men shall westward gaze, and say,
'He who perilled all for Freedom on the scaffold dies to-day.'
Never offering was richer, nor did temple fairer rise
For the gods serenely smiling from the blue Olympian skies;
Porphyry or granite colamn did not statelier cleave the air
Than the posts of youder gallows with the cross-beam waiting there; 
And the victim, wreathed and crowned, not for Dian nor far Jove, 
But for Liberty and Manhood, comes, the sacrifice of Love.
They may hang him on the gibbet; they may raise the victor's cry, 
When they see him darkly swinging like a speck against the sky;-
Ah! the dying of a here, that the right may win its way,
<c02>
Is but sowing seed for harvest in a warm and mellow May! 
Now his story shall be whispered by the firelight's evening glow, 
And in fields of rice and cotton, when the hotno on passes slow, 
Till his name shall be a watch-word from Missouri to the sea, 
And his planting find its reaping in the birthday of the Free!
Christ, the crucified, attend him, weak and erring though he be;
In his measure he has striven, suffering Lord! to love like Thee;
Thou the vine-thy friends the branches-is he not a branch of Thine,
Though some dregs from earthly vintage have defiled the heavenly wine?
Now his tendrils lie unclasped, bruised and prostrate on the sod,-
Take him to thine upper garden, where the husband-man is God!

From the Boston Transcript. 
THE EXECUTION OF JOHN BROWN. 
Ho! ye who lead him forth to die,
A mockery to law and right, 
That brave old man, beneath whose eye
Ye quailed in all your boasted might-
Whose trembling steps your hosts combine
To guard with pomp of pagan show, 
A sacrifice at Moloch's shrine,
T' appease the cursed god of wo.
Beware! for when he bows his head,
And earnestly to Heaven cries, 
Your temple walls shall shake with dread,
Tremble and fall, no more to rise! 
A power no human hand can stay
Shall crush the ruthless law of Might, 
And clothe your victim's worthless clay
With all a martyr's halo bright!
And through the future untold years
The weak and blasted life ye take 
Shall rise a Samson to your fears,
And make each proud oppressor quake. 
And History's faithful pen shall trace
A line of light around his name, 
Who, by his death, hath gained a place
For Truth his life could never claim.
A. D. A. B.
Somerville, Dec 2, 1859. 

DIRGE. 
Sung at a meeting in Concord, Mass., Dec. 2, 1859. 
To-day, beside Potomac's wave,
Beneath Virginia's sky, 
They slay the man who loved the slave,
 
And dared for him to die.
The Pilgrim Fathers' earnest creed,
Virginia's ancient faith, 
Inspired ehis hero's noblest deed,
And his reward is-Death!
Great Washington's indignant shade
Forever urged him on-
He heard from Monticello's glade
The voice of Jefferson.
But chiefly on the Hebrew page
He read Jehovah's law, 
And this from youth to hoary age
Obeyed with love and awe.
No selfish purpose armed his hand,
No passion aimed his blow; 
How loyally be loved his land
Impartial Time shall show.
But now the faithful martyr dies,
His brave heart beats no more, 
His soul ascends the equal skies,
His earthly course is o'er. 
For this we mourn, but not for him,-
Like him in God we trust; 
And though our eyes with tears are dim,
We know that God is just.

JOHN BROWN'S FINAL VICTORY. 
BY G. W. LIGHT.
Read at the meeting in Tremont Temple, Boston, Dee. 2. 
Let them beat their drums in triumph,
While the martyr, Brown,
Fighting bravely, dying nobly,
Wears the victor's crown.
Summoned to his home celestial,
From their brief control, 
All the hemp of ruthless tyrants
Could not hang his soul.
Now triumphant, bravest angels
Speed him to the land 
Where the Prince of holy martyrs,
Smiling, waits his hand.
God be thanked, the spell is broken!
Clouds, affrighted, fly, 
While the sun of Truth is breaking
Through the angry sky.
God be thanked, the dead are waking,
Roused by Freedom's call! 
Tyrants, trembling, read the fearful
Writing on the wall.
Let them beat their drums in triumph,
While the martyr, Brown, 
Fighting bravely, dying nobly,
 
Wean the Hero's crown.

THE LIBERATOR.
MEETINGS AT CUMMINGTON.
The Anti-Slavery Convention called to meet in Cummington on the 19th and 20th inst., began its sessions on Saturday evening, the 19th; the severe storm of Saturday having prevented an earlier gathering. Dea. Hiram Brown was chosen President, and Daniel W. Bond and C. C. Burleigh, Secretaries. C. C. Burleigh, Gertrude K. Burleigh, Nelson Brown, Francis K. Dawes and Richmond Kingman were appointed a Business Committee; and Caroline Kingman, Richmond Kingman, Louisa Kingman, and Alvan Kingman, a Finance Committee. The evening was occupied with speeches from A. T. Foss, C. L. Remond, and C. C. Burleigh, interspersed with the singing of appropriate pieces by the choir of the Cummington Free Church.
On Sunday morning, the meeting was opened with a song by the same choir, after which Mr. Remond spoke at length and ably against the 'idol worship' of the American people, and its effect in holding them back from adopting right views and measures in regard to slavery.
C. C. Burleigh, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:-
1. Resolved, That in the present aspect of the slave question, we have abundant reason for a firm faith in our principles, for confidence in the measures we have chosen for their promotion, and for unfaltering trust in the God of Truth and Right, that He will crown our enterprise with a success as complete as its object is noble.
2. Resolved, That never since we enlisted in this cause has then been a louder call than now for zeal, fidelity and earnest self-devotion in its service; nor ever has there been a time when faithful, energetic effort to advance it has been more effective for good than it may be now.
3. Resolved, That the recent event at Harper's Ferry, and its effect on the public mind of Virginia and the whole South, exhibit in a striking light the
<c03>
inherent weakness of slavery, the constant insecurity of the tenure of the tyrant's power, and the folly and madness of founding political and social institutions on falsehood and wrong.
4. Resolved, That while we must disapprove the means employed by John Brown and his associates for the attainment of their object, believing that we have a more excellent way, better both in principle and policy, for working out the slave's deliverance, we cannot withhold our admiration and applause from the heroism they displayed, from their courage, their whole-souled devotion to their own convictions of duty, their generous disinterestedness, their just appreciation of the worth of freedom and the sacredness of human rights, and the nobility of their bearing in the presence of their triumphant enemies 
5. Resolved, That they who eulogize the men of the American Revolution as worthy of a nation's gratitude and a world's epplause, are self-convicted of the grossest inconsistency, if they denounce the heroes of Harper's Ferry as traitors and murderers, worthy of general execration and an ignominious death.
6. Resolved, That Virginia, in dooming Brown and his companions to death, passes sentence against herself; for they have at most but expressed in action the sentiment engraved on her own official seal, which represents the Genius of Liberty, fully armed, trampling down the oppressor, while the motto encircles her head, 'So be it always to tyrants.'
7. Resolved, That till Massachusetts makes her soil an inviolable sanctuary for the flying bondman, she has no right to call herself a free State; but is the accomplice of every slaveholder in the holding of every slave in this whole slaveholding land.
8. Resolved, That it is an important part of the work of every lover of right and freedom in Massachusetts, at the present time, to redeem the State from this complicity, by procuring the enactment of a Personal Liberty Bill which shall guard her soil from the incursions of the kidnapper, whether he comes with or without the authority of Courts and Congresses and Constitutions which seek to turn iniquity into law.
9. Resolved, That in permitting the statue of Daniel Webster, the champion of the infamous Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850, to be placed on the State House grounds, we believe the Legislature of Massachusetts misrepresented the sentiment of the Commonwealth, and we are sure it did a deed 'not fit to be done,' and eminently fit to be undone; and therefore that the people ought to besiege the Legislature with petitions for the removal of that statue, till it shall cease to dishonor their public grounds by its presence, and to seem to commit Massachusetts to the atrocious doctrines of the 7th of March speech, and the' disagreeable duty' of catching runaway slaves' with alacrity.'
After a spirit-stirring piece of music from the Florence Brass Band, A. T. Foss spoke briefly, endorsing the views of Remond, who followed with a few remarks on the financial department of our work. The morning session was then closed with the singing, by the Hutchinson Family, (John and his wife and two children,) of a song entitled, 'The Irrepressible Conflict,' written by George W. Putnam. It was given in a style worthy their reputation, and spontaneous applause testified the delight of the hearers. They have kindly furnished us a copy of the song, for publication with the proceedings of the Convention:
'Ridden by the Slave Power,
Crushed beneath the chain,
Now is come our rising hour,
Lo! we're up again.
And voices from the mountain height,
Voices from the vale,
Say to Freedom's fearless host,
There's no such word as fail!
 Aye! we are up to hurl the fiend
From off the tyrant throne;
To strike for man a mightier blow
Than earth hath ever known;
To drag your code of whips and gyves
Up to the light of day, 
And wash from our escutcheon's front
The bloody stain away.
Free to speak the burning truth,
All fetterless the hand,
Never shall the Yankee's brow
Bear the cursed brand.
Send the gathering freemen's shout
Booming on the gale;
Omnipotence is for us,-
There's no such word as fail!
 They're gathering on the mountain,
They're gathering on the plain;
And'neath the tramp of Freedom's host,
The broad earth shakes again.
And this their glorious rallying-cry,
Whose firm hearts never quail:
God and the people! on for right,-
There's no such word as fail!'
A song from the Cummington choir opened the afternoon session, and then Mr. Foss held the attention of the assembly for an hour and a half, with one of his characteristic speeches, of which, as any one who ever heard him knows, no description can give an adequate notion. Next came a song from the Florence Quintette Club, followed by a brief speech from C. C. Burleigh, urging to earnestness, seal and liberality in promoting the work of moral agitation, as the efficient method of accomplishing the overthrow of slavery. Meanwhile, the Finance Committee went on with the discharge of its duties, and made collections amounting, with some additions during the progress of the meeting, to $32. The Hutchinsons then gave a song called 'Right over Wrong,' and the session was closed with music from the Florence Band.
The singing of the Hutchinsons commenced the evening exercises. A brief speech from Remond succeeded, in which he gave a scathing exposure of the meanness and wickedness of prejudice against color. Mr. Foss spoke next, proposing and advocating as an amendment to the 4th resolution, the substitution of the words' do not endorse,' for' must disapprove.' An animated discussion of the proposed amendment followed, in which C. C. Burleigh, A. T. Foss, C. L. Remond, G. K. Burleigh and Nelson Brown took part, and the resolution was finally adopted by a considerable majority, without amendment. The other resolutions were then taken up, and unanimously adopted, A vote of thanks was passed to the several companies whose musical performances had helped so largely to give interest to the meetings, and, after a farewell song by the Hutchinsons, the Convention adjourned without day.
Though the unfavorable state of the weather made the attendance smaller than on former like occasions, the proceedings were spirited and interesting, and all seemed to feel that it was good to have come together.
HIRAM BROWN, President.
DANIEL W. BOND,
C. C. BURLEIGH,} Secretaries.

JOHN BROWN.
EDEN, Pa., Nov. 11, 1859. 
FRIEND W. L. G.:
Neither my friends nor myself suspect I have any poetical talent. Whatever there is that belongs to I or Me has a different direction. There is one subject that has almost monopolized my thoughts for some ten days; namely, the case of that terrible, inimitable man now lying in Charlestown, Va., under sentence of death. It involves tremendous consequences, not only to the man himself, but to the cause for which he perilled his life. Slaveholders are in a trying predicament; for whether they pardon or hang him, or permit him to be spirited off, it will make a fearful column in their debit account. Very children say, 'This is but the beginning of the end.' My thoughts on the subject are epitomized in what follows, and they would run into some sort of jingle. 
AMOS GILBERT.
 
Menials may war reluctantly, heroes may fight for fame, 
The Patriot strikes for Liberty, and earns a deathless name.
<c04>
When foe meets foe in deadly strife, we know the tyrant's there;
He can't arouse our sympathies, his minions claim no care. 
We grieve to see our fellow-man go forth at despot's call, 
Lay down his life submissively, a prostrate, humble thrall;
But he who struggles for the Right, and dies in Freedom's cause. 
Calls forth our admiration, almost wins our applause.
TURNER loomed up before a world, eccentric, gloomy, wild-
There came a myth, a meteor glare, to Slavery's weary child; 
He stood before a mighty power, that crushed him to the earth, 
But then his seeming foolishness to wiser thoughts gave birth; 
It opened eyes that erst were closed to Slavery's spreading flood. 
They saw't must yield to moral force, or else go down in blood. 
Humanity laid in her claim, Right Reason plead the cause, 
Stern Justice furnished scales to weigh divine with human laws; 
When these were fairly poised, to some however strange it seem. 
The former dropped below the line, the latter kicked the beam.
After a time of panic, Southampton was forgot, 
Yet men grew in moral suture, they grew, but knew it not; 
The cause of Freedom stronger waxed, though call'd by different name, 
It only was the more and less, the principle the same. 
The voter and non-voter both claimed they had the right, 
They made all slavedom quail and rave, and swear that it would fight.
Now there was one who took no part in all this strife of words,
The items of his logic were guns and spears and swords;
He pondered half a life-time, to few his thoughts he gave,
But night and morning, day by day, his thoughts went to the slave.
He saw him crushed and bleeding, doomed to a hopeless fate,
The owner's and the sophist's plea, the scowls of Church and State,
Persuasion mild, and stern rebuke, had all to share his hate.
He deemed himself appointed to lead the bondman forth
From out of Southern Egypt to Canaan in the North. 
A man of deeds not words, having matured his plan, 
He entered on the fearful work, a bold and honest man;
His hope was large, he knew no fear, nought could his spirit quell, 
Assailed by Slavery's myrmidons, the enthusiast martyr fell-
The sequel of his history, let worthier poet tell.
Slavery may hang the man, with craven, vile intent,
They'll brand him traitor, murderer; but when their rage is spent,
Posterity will honor him, and build his monument; 
In that good day when Right comes up, and Wrong is fairly down,
They'll say, 'Here lies the just, the brave, the philanthropic BROWN!'

GREAT MEETING IN NATICK.
GRANTVILLE, NOV. 21, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON: 
A meeting of the citizens of Natick was held last evening, (Sunday,) to consider and act upon the following resolution:-
Whereas, 'Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God'; therefore,
Resolved, That it is the right and duty of the slaves to resist their masters, and it is the right and duty of the people of the North to incite them to resistance, and to aid them in it.
The resolution was unanimously adopted. How can any one, even a Quaker, or the most sincere, truthful and earnest advocate of the sanctity of life and person, and opponent of violence, raise his voice against such a resolve? Resistance to slaveholders is the one thought of the resolution; not one allusion to the means of resistance in it. Resistance to drunkenness, war, slavery, or any evil, is one thing; the means of resistance, another. We may, and we must, if we are anti-slavery, concur and co-operate with John Brown, in resisting slavery; but in his means used, I can neither concur nor co-operate.
Why is John Brown called a 'fanatic, 'insane, 'reckless,' a' ruffian,' a' murderer'? He only has done what Virginia, the church and clergy, and the entire nation, declare, every day it was his duty to do. Besides, he has accomplished the one great object of life, i. e., to arouse this nation to look the sin and danger of slavery in the face. He has done his work; the nation is convulsed; and the downfall of slavery rapidly approaches.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
 
AFRICAN CIVILIZATION SOCIETY.
23 BIBLE HOUSE, NEW YORK,
November 25, 1859.
MR. EDITOR,-I have just received a letter from England, written by the Secretary of the London Emancipation Committee, a copy of which I forward for your valuable paper. Please publish, and oblige, 
Yours, truly, A. A. CONSTANTINE,
Cor. Sec. African Civilization Society.
' At a meeting of the London Emancipation Committee, held on Saturday, 22d Oct., 1859, George Thompson, Esq., in the chair, the following resolution was unanimously adopted: 
Resolved, That this meeting desires to express its sympathy with the objects of the African Civilization Society, in so far as they are calculated to promote the growth and exportation of free labor produce from the African continent, and the establishment of a line of free settlements along the west coast of Africa-a policy which is the most likely to secure the ultimate extinction of the slave trade.
F. W. CHESSON, Hon. Secretary.' 

Who the author of the following diatribe is, we cannot even surmise; nor can we recall to mind the particular interview to which he refers. How could he be so lacking in self-respect, and so disloyal to the South, as to invite one so traitorous as ourself to' a social and scientific gathering' in his parlor i
To the Editors of the Louisville Journal:
GENTLEMEN:-The wild attempt of John Brown at Harper's Ferry will probably create more political excitement in the North than it justly warrants. I cannot but hope that it will do good by drawing the line between the abolition traitors of the North and the great mass of the loyal population, and cutting off the former more completely than ever from all sympathy at home.
The true abolitionists are disunionists and traitors. Their leaders aim at the invasion and conquest of the South. About fifteen years since, the writer was in Boston, mingling with all classes of the thinking minds of that city. At a social and scientific gathering in  my parlor on a winter's evening, the British Consul, Mr. Grattan, and the famous abolition leader, William Lloyd Garrison, fell into a political dialogue not at all private, a portion of which, as we were for a few minutes standing near together, I heard with some surprise. Mr. Garrison took occasion, as there was at that time considerable asperity in the relations of Great Britain to the United States, to tender Mr. Grattan all the encouragement he could by assuring him that there were a great many in our country who would not be loyal to their native land in ease of a conflict with Great Britain. The entire abolition party he represented as having no sympathy but with England in case of a conflict between her and the United States. I could not now give his estimate of the abolition force upon which England could count as a reduction of our strength. Any estimate at that time would fall short of its present numbers, which have been greatly increased since the Kansas agitation.
It is necessary now that the conservative people of the North should aid the Government in bringing to punishment for treason, all who an acesssory to such incendiary attempts. This is the only thing that can save us from future insurrection, instigated by such men Gerrit Smith, Garrison, and Frederick Douglass.
Another matter I hope you will urge upon the attention of the people of the North. The formation
<c05>
in the free States of negro military companies, when viewed in connection with the drilling of negroes in Canada, and the desperate harangues of the ultra-abolitionists, should be a matter for grave remonstrance. In Cincinnati for some years past, they have had the Attuck Blues, a negro company well equipped. All the free negroes in the North together would do us no harms, if the meddlesome white men would let them alone. They inspire the negro with passions foreign to his nature, but for which interference he would be loyal and friendly; but under existing circumstances, negro companies ought not to be allowed to organize (virtually) for the invasion of the South, if it should ever be possible.SANGAREE.
GLENNARY, Nov. 1st.

CASSIUS M. CLAY SPEAKS IN KENTUCKY.
Cassius M. Clay made a speech at Covington on the evening of the 16th inst, in which he denounced slavery with his accustomed force and boldness. The Cincinnati Gazette published a full report of the speech, which was listened to by a large audience. It fills two columns and a half of the Gazette, and is one of the important signs of the times. As Mr. Clay took the stand, some one person on the edge of the crowd shouted in a loud voice,'Osawatomie Brown.' Mr. C. said he would tell him something about Osawatomie Brown before he was done, and added,'If some people in this section of the country don't mend their manners, they will make a great many more Osawatomie Browns than there are.' (Laughter and applause.)
The whole speech of Mr. Clay is worthy of perusal, but we have room for only an extract or two.
 
TWENTY TO ONE.
According to the last census, there are in Kentucky about twenty men to one slaveholder. There is but one slaveholder, and twenty men, women and children that own no slaves. That is a big difference; but look at your census, and you will see what it says. Yet Cass. Clay is a seditious man; Cass. Clay is an ambitious man; Cass. Clay is a bloody man-don't listen to him. Whose interest am I advocating? Men! if I was advocating the interests of one man to the twenty, he would stand by me, would he not? I should be a good fellow, at least in his eye, whatever I might be in the eyes of others. Would he not be my friend, whoever else might denounce me? Well, if I don't advocate that interest, whose interest do I advocate? whose interest do I defend? in whose interest do I jeopardize, again and again, my good name and character, and, I might almost say, my life itself? Of course, as I am not in favor with one, it must be the other twenty. Under which King? It must be one or the other. I am, therefore, for the great people of Kentucky-the twenty to one; for the eight hundred thousand as against the forty-three thousand.
OSAWATOMIE BROWN.
Well now, I come to the answering of this 'Osawatomie Brown' affair. I am going to speak plainly and above board, and without reserve. In my humble judgment, it has no connection whatever with party associations in these United States, as such. I say it here now, as I will say it on all occasions, that it is nothing else but a sequence, and fruit foreseen by all sensible men, of that invasion of Kansas by the Southern pro-slavery party, united to their Northern allies. If you don't like that, you must come home to your bosoms, and ask there, whether it be true; it is a realization of scripture truth, that they who' sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind.' It is that, and it is nothing else. Our fathers knew and felt all the exciting accompaniments that have followed in the wake of this institution of Slavery. They foresaw that it would depopulate Kentucky, and the great States of the West and Southwest, as it has depopulated Virginia, and as it has partly depopulated Kentucky; and they reserved in the far West, in the then uninhabited territory, a home for the free white laborer and his children, as they supposed, for ever, against the strong competition of unpaid labor; where, under their own vine and fig-tree, they may sit, and none may make them afraid. And they passed, as I told you on a former occasion, this Missouri Compromise, that north of that line of 36:30, including the territory of Kansas, the scene of the feud, the scene of all our woes, should be consecrated to freemen, and that no slave foot should pass that line. Who violated that contract? I care not whether it was got up north or south, but it was really got up south. It was consummated by the north and south it was consummated by the almost unanimous spirit and conscience of all the Democratic people of the northern and southern States. Who violated it? Who opened up again this source of strife, to leave the question to be determined as it was, by the rifle, the sword and bloodshed? The Democratic party did it. They are the men who did it. Stephen A. Douglass is the author of that bill, a leading Democrat, so claimed, north and south. Did I not tell you as I went through here before, there was a' honey-fugling' going on as to whether it should be Douglas or Buchanan? Don't you see the leading papers coming out, and taking one side or the other-some for Donglas, and some for Buchanan? Douglas was the man that did it. He is a strong candidate for the Charleston nomination. The Democracy then are responsible, not we-they are the agitators, not we. If bloodshed was the fruit in Kansas of the attempt of the Democratic Administration, contrary to their pledges in the Cincinnati Platform that they would allow the people of the territories to determine upon their own institutions for themselves; I say, if the Democratic party did, by a Democratic President, violate their pledges, and the people were denied the privilege of free speech and free access to the ballot, driving old Brown from his settlement, taking possession of his plantation, murdering his sons, and making his daughter mad, who is to blame for the institution of the late steps of bloodshed and violence? It is right yon should hear a little wholesome truth in Kentucky; you are not in the habit of hearing it. I say it is nothing but a personal feud-a guerilla warfare, commenced in Kansas by the Democratic party, and carried on by Brown, upon the principle that wherever he found a slaveholder, he should make war upon him. All this assailing of leading men in the country in this connection-all this-I had almost said infamous attempt to connect leading men with it, is too base even for all the baseness of the Democratic party. So far as I am concerned in any way, in being connected with him, I say to you, my friends, that I spurn the charge-I won't deign to reply to it.
THE 'PECULIAR INSTITUTION.'
I have spoken of the National Republican party. Look at what I have said, in a rational view. In the first place, is it not right, according to the Democratic rule? Their idea, they say, is the good of the greatest number. If it turns out, then, that the white people are the majority, their interests are to be subserved. That is the doctrine they preach, but not the one they practice. All along here in the Slave States, they say our institutions are peculiar. If slavery and freedom of the press and of speech cannot exist together, it is indeed a peculiar institution-devilish peculiar. It is an institution, moreover, that you can't talk about without danger to somebody. Well, we say we don't want any more of so very peculiar an institution.
A Voice-Set your niggers free!
Mr. Clay-They are; and now I want to do the next best thing. I want to set those fellows that call themselves Democrats free, for God knows they need it more than the niggers. Now, gentlemen, if you will allow me to tell you, niggers get a good master sometimes; but your masters neither clothe nor feed you, but put their hands into the exchequer to take out the contents, and the devil a bit of it do they give to you, poor fellows. I have often thought of this, as I have seen Cuffy, black and sleek, working in the field, and then have seen the lazy, dirty, lousy Democrat, unfed and ragged, halloaing 'Hurrah for Democracy, and damn niggerism!'
Gentlemen, I have said enough. If all these truths, presented to you in this plain, unvarnished style, so that you can all understand them and comprehend them, do not move you, no logical deductions that may be drawn by fancy can. If, with all this living experience before you, of that institution which has driven your forefathers and you from the Atlantic slope, and which will drive you until you cross the plains of the far West, and seek the shores of the Pacific, you are not moved; if the marks of eternal prosperity and progress exhibited in and by the free States of the Union; if the un-paralleled ncrease of population and wealth-railroads and canals vessels at home and at sea; if the admiration of the world, centered upon the great States of the Free North, and, above all, the great school-houses and churches-living evidences that God-Almighty has declared that the uujust thing of Slavery shall not prosper-do not move you, what can? I say that you should hang upon my words, and listen to anything that I should be able to offer.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS.S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?

READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had becomes quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S.A. Allen's 'Restorer,' No.1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the<illegible> appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. I EATON, LL.D., Union University
Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor' Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
' I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it is any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor' Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' & c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleaure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.' 
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.' 
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
' I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BE-COME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANT. LY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
' Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States]
HAYTL
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y. 
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the 'American Baptist,'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till us know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity, and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &e.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, & c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.' 
Rev. JAS. MCFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church, Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place,(Pacific street) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.' 
Rev. M C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
'We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always NT on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in my any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 87 1/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No.365 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappes, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgary, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
OCtober 14. 1yeo
