THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No: 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to directed., (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
WM, LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXX. NO. 46. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1560.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SENTIMENT AT THE SOUTH.
We find in the New Haven Register the following letter from a gentleman in Alabama to a family friend in New Haven. Its author is a Union-loving, <illegible> man, thought not a member of the Democratic party. Thousands of communications of the same purport are written by people at the South to their friends in the North. We reproduce this Alabama letter, because it is temperately written, and obviously states the facts:-
A-,Ala., Oct. 24, 1860.
Ten days from this, the people of this country will be called on to decide whether the Government is a failure or not! I now fear, should Lincoln be elected there will be a dissolution of the Government! My mind has undergone a great change since I was in New Haven. South Carolina will secede as certain as Lincoln is elected; and all the cotton States will follow.
Let there be one drop of Southern blood spilt, and every Southern State will be ready to avenge it. Some months since, I thought there would be no withdrawing of any State until after some overt act of Lincoln and his Administration--but Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, South Carolina, and Florida, will all withdraw. Our State has passed a resolution, that in the event of a Black Republican being elected, the Governor shall convene the Legislature; and our Governor, and a large number of our representatives elect, are in favor of resistance! Most of the Governors in the cotton States are of the same mind. Now there are many conservative men here, but when the South becomes involved in a difficulty with the General Government, they will not only sympathise but take an active part. Not one in a hundred will take sides with the General Government. I write this as my own opinion, and you can take it for what it is worth. South Carolina is making preparations, by reorganizing her militia, and many have put the ‘cockade’ upon their hats ready to march directly out of the Union. Some at the North may laugh at the idea, but the passions of the people are aroused.
Why, who compose the Black Republican party, or a large majority? Those who are willing to indorse John Brown as a martyr, and are now taking up subscriptions to build a monument to his fame! Look at the Beechers and Cheevers; look at the higher law men, and those that curse Washington, Madison, and Jefferson, as thieves and robbers, because they were slaveholders. All this inflames the public mind. Then the manufacturing of Brown's pikes, the distributing arsenic in large quantities to the negroes, telling them to poison their masters and take their mistresses for wives--telling them that all this is warranted by the laws of God and the Bible-saying that when the Black Republicans are elected, the negroes are to be freed. The negroes think Lincoln and Hamlin are both negroes! Do you see the drift of all this? Now, how do you expect to keep a people conservative, when all these things are brought to bear upon them? All here know full well that as soon as a dissolutions takes place, all kinds of property will decline; but they think that after that is over, it will rally again. For my part, I do not want to see these States separated. but the North is to blame for it all. Had she let the South alone, we would now have been as band of brothers. I fear the die is cast-take waring!

From the Charleston Courier, (Extra) Nov. 5th.
MESSAGE OF THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH CAROLINA
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Columbia, S. C., Nov. 5th, 1860.
Gentlemen of the Senate and the House of Representatives:
The Act of Congress, passed in the year 1846, enacts that the Electors of President and Vice President shall be appointed on the Tuesday next after the first Monday of the month of November, of the year in which they are to be appointed.
The annual meeting of the Legislatures of South Carolina, by a Constitutional provision, will not take place until the fourth Monday in November, instant. I have considered it my duty, under the authority conferred upon me, to convene you that you may,. on to-morrow, appoint the number of Electors of President and Vice President to which this State is entitled.
Under ordinary circumstances, your duty could be soon discharged by the election of Electors representing the choices of the people of the State; but in view of the threatening aspect of affairs, and the strong probability of the election to the Presidency of a sectional candidate, by a party committed to the support of measures which, if carried out, will inevitably destroy our equality in the Union, and ultimately reduce the Southern States to mere provinces of a consolidated despotism, to be governed by a fixed majority in Congress, hostile to our institutions, and fatally and fatally bent upon our ruin, I would respectfully suggest that the Legislature remain in session, and take such action as will prepare the State for any emergency that may arise. 
That an exposition of the will of the people may be obtained on a question involving such momentous consequences, I would earnestly recommend that in the event of Abraham Lincoln's election to the Presidency, a Convention of the people of this State be immediately called, to consider and determine for themselves the mode and measure of redress. My own opinions of what the Convention should do, are of little moment; but believing that the time has arrived, when every one, however humble he may be, should express his opinions in unmistakable language, I am constrained to say that the only alternative left, in my judgment, is the secession of South Carolina from the Federal Union. The State has, with great unanimity, declared that she has the right, peaceably, to secede, and no power on earth can rightfully prevent it.
If, in the exercise of arbitrary power, and forgetful of the lessons of history, the Government of the United States should attempt coercion, it will become our solemn duty to meet force by force; and whatever may be the decision of the Convention, representing the sovereignty of the State, and amenable to no earthly tribunal, it shall, during the remainder of my administration, be carried out to the letter, regardless of any hazards that may surround its execution.
I would also respectfully recommend a thorough re-organization of the militia, so as to place the whole military force of the State in a position to be used at the shortest notice, and with the greatest efficiency. Every man in the State, between the ages of 18 and 45, should be well armed with the most efficient weapons of modern warfare, and all the available means of the State used for that purpose.
In addition to this general preparation, I would also recommend that the services of ten thousand volunteers be immediately accepted; that they be organized and drilled by officers chosen by themselves, and hold themselves in readiness to be called on upon the shortest notice. With this preparation or defence, and with all the hallowed memories of
<c02>
past achievements, with our love of liberty of and hatred of tyranny, and with the knowledge that we are contending for the safety of our homes and fire-ides, we can confidently appeal to the Disposer of all human events, and surely trust our cause in his keeping. WM. H. GIST.

ELEGANT EXTRACT.
The editor of the Democratic Platform published at Calhoun in Georgia, goes into extacies over a sentiment recently offered on a public occasion by a Democrat of Savannah-as follows:-
‘A GOLDEN SENTIMENT.-Write it upon pages of adamant, that the corroding tooth of time may-never obliterate its legibility, in golden letters, that. its purity may never be effaced nor obscured by the of fanaticism and ignorance-paint it upon the canvass of the blue vault of heaven-“with a pencil of sunbeam, dipped in the colors of the rainbow"-forever proclaim it in the tones of loudest bender-the never-dying truth contained in the on sentiment expressed by Mayor Arnold, of Savannah, the late annual parade of the Fire Department of, that city: “The element of Southern prosperity-African muscle, directed by Caucasian brains."

SELECTIONS.
From the Scotsman.
MISS REMOND IN EDINBURGH.
Last night, a public meeting was held in Brighton Street Chapel, to hear a lecture on American Slavery, by Miss Sarah P. Remond, a lady of color. The meeting was held under the auspices of the Ladies' Emancipation Society, and the large chapel, which has just been improved by the erection of a handsome-railed platform, making it extremely well adapted for such meetings, was crowded to over loving, many being unable to obtain admission. There would be fully two thousand persons present. About half-past 7 o'clock, the Rev. Dr. Guthrie conducted Miss Remond to the platform amidst loud and prolonged cheering. A number of ladies connected with the Ladies' Emancipation Society, and several highly respectable citizens, occupied the platform
On the motion of Mr. J. R. Dymock, the Rev. Dr. Guthrie took the chair, and the meeting was opened with prayer by the Rev. John Kirk.
Rev. Dr. Guthrie then rose, amidst loud cheers, and said-I must express my very great gratification it seeing assembled within these walls to hear the lady at my right hand plead the cause of the oppressed and down-trodden of her own race and country-I must express my unbounded gratification at seeing such an enormous and respectable audience met to do her honor upon this occasion. (Cheers.) I must say it is more than I expected-not that I believe that the heart of Edinburgh does! not beat true in regard to this great question; but because, during the last week, there have been meetings of so many different kinds, that I fancied the domestic arrangements of the good folks of Edinburgh would not allow them to come out so near the end of the week, after they had spent so much time in public meetings. I am, therefore, exceedingly gratified, and in no small degree surprised, to meet such an audience here; and I never did attend and meeting-at any rate, I never did take the chair with more pleasure-and, if I may use such a term as pride-I speak it in the right sense of the word-with more pride than I do now. (Cheers.) I have often been asked to preside at meetings I have sometimes agreed to do so, not often. But those who applied to me to take the chair on this occasion will bear me witness that I did not do it grudgingly-I did not do it hesitatingly. The truth is, I leaped at the thing as a trout leap at the bait (laughter and cheers); and I considered that it would not only be a great pleasure, but that it would be a great honor for me to do so. (Cheers.) There is no man in Great Britain, nor out of it, who feels deeper sympathy with this cause than I do. I have not hesitated to express my feelings on several occasions, and I have suffered no little abuse for that. It has come roaring against me across the Atlantic, and I let it roar. (Laughter.) It is said, he It's a far cry to Loch Awe,' (laughter)-and it's a far cry between New York and Edinburgh. (Renewed laughter and cheers.) And what is more than that, although it roared ten times louder than it does, and it came a storm of opposition across as big as the Atlantic billows, I stand upon the Word of God and the rights of humanity, (cheers,) and will be as little moved from my position as will these billows move the rocks of the Western Isles, (Cheers,) I was amused when they let me know that my books had been very popular in America, but there was an end to the sale of them now-(laughter)-as if I care a straw whether they sold there or not-(cheers)-or as if I worshipped the almighty dollar as some of them do across the water-or as if I were prepared to sell my principles for money, or anything else. (Cheers.) I have ever felt for the condition of the slave. I have loved liberty all my days. She was one of my earliest loves, and I intend to die loving her-church library, civil liberty, and domestic liberty. I hate tyranny in every shape, and I pray that the curse of heaven may come, above all, upon that shape of it that buys, and sells, and manacles human beings, I have the deepest sympathy with this cause. They told me it was a lady who was to address us on this occasion. Then I said, ‘So much the better; I like when women's tongues are well employed.' (Laughter.) And why should not a lady address us I have been at the meeting of the Social Science Association in Glasgow. I found ladies addressing philosophers there. I found Miss Carpenter, I found Miss Faithfull, I found Miss Parkes, I found Miss Hill, and the company was not only graced but illuminated and enlightened by ladies; and if it is proper for a lady to plead the cause of ragged children as Miss Carpenter does to her honor-or for another lady to plead the cause of the employment of women, as Miss Faithfull and Miss Parkes do, to their honor-is our beloved friend sitting beside me here-is she who, though darker in color than we are, is an honor to her sex, to be denied a like privilege-(cheers)-is her tongue to be tied from pleading with the power and eloquence that God has given her the wrongs of the oppressed? I say, loose her and let her go free. (Cheers.) And I take it as an especial honor to be called on to preside on such an occasion as this. I will not detain you now. I may, when Miss Remond has finished her address, and the collection made, and a resolution proposed and passed-I may close these proceedings. Kindled up by the fire that Miss Remond will apply to all of us, I may then address you a few desultory words upon the question; but in the meantime, finding that the express train is behind me, I will get out of the way. (Laughter and cheers.)
Miss Remond, who is a young lady of prepossessing appearance, was enthusiastically cheered on rising to address the meeting, and proceeded to de-liver, in a clear, distinct tone of voice, audible throughout the entire chapel, an able and eloquent address on the subject of American Slavery. She
<c03>
began by stating that the cause she advocated should commend itself to every lover of liberty, and to every Christian, involving not only the liberty of the race, but the destiny of a Republic. (Joining fresh from the Social Science Association at Glasgow, where the evils of Great Britain hold been discussed by the ablest men and woman in this land of liberty, and where she had listened, with an interest which no words of hers could express, to the words as they fell from the lips of those noble men, endeavoring to remove from Great Britain the evils which were in her midst, she could only say that in America they had all that was there described, and a more gigantic evil still-American chattel slavery-four millions of man and women held in bondage, who were guilty of no imaginable crime but having a skin differing in color from the white man. That was’ the head and front of their offending.' It had' that extent, no more;' or it had no more on the onset of this great cause. She wished to state that she was there for no political purpose-she had never been identified with any class of anti-slavery men and women but with the simple Abolitionists-the men and women who, outside of the Church and political machinery, in season and out of season, had demanded only this, that every human being has a God-given right to the inestimable boon of personal liberty. (Applause.) Miss Remond went on to refer to the origin of slavery, to its rapid increase, and to it a demoralizing and degrading results, not only on the slaves themselves, but on free colored men and women, and on white men in the slave States. She maintained that the 347,000 slaveholders of America not only controlled the Northern ones; and remarked that if one tyrant on the continent set the whole of Europe in commotion, they might imagine 347,000 tyrants in America, and the a they might have some conception of what the Abolitionists had to contend with in the United States. (Cheers.) After eloquently describing the sufferings of the slaves, and noticing the circumstances attending the pissing of the Fugitive Slave Law, she referred in terms of exultation to the fact, that, in spits of that law, there were men and women who, in season and out of season, would help on his way the fugitive slave, who was pursued not only by four-legged blood-hounds, but by two-legged blood-hounds, pistol in hand, to the borders of Canada. She alluded to the dangers that were likely to arise from the American prejudice against color spreading to Canada, and after passing a glowing eulogium on John Brown, that hero of Harper's Ferry, sin concluded with a powerful appeal to the Christians of Great Britain to use their moral influence against slavery, and in be-half of the cause of abolition in America.
Miss Remond, whose address occupied about an hour and a half in the delivery, and was listened to throughout with the utmost attention, the audience frequently testifying their approbation during its delivery, resumed her seat amidst enthusiastic cheering, which was prolonged for several minutes.
Mr. Thomas Knox proposed the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:-That the hearty thanks of this meeting be now conveyed to Miss Remond for the able and instructive lecture just delivered, which has deepened our abhorrence of the sin of American Slavery, and the prejudice which it produces, and has strengthened our sympathy with the cruelly oppressed people of color, both bond and free, of whom she is the noble representative and advocate. Also, that the meeting would express cordial sympathy with the anti-slavery efforts of the Abolitionists of America, who have, through good and through evil report, for up-wards of a quarter of a century, unflinchingly labored for the loosening of the bands of wickedness, and letting the oppressed go free. Further, that, as it is a notorious tact that the American Churches are the bulwarks of American Slavery, this meeting would respectfully urge on the Churches of Great Britain the importance of faithful and practical remonstrance with their brethren in the United States, against the support which they continue to give to that system of iniquity, that sum of all villanies, which is the sin and reproach of their country.'
Rev. Dr. Guthrie said, that, as it was very late, he would not detain the meeting with a speech. (Cheers.) As Dr. Chevron of the best, holiest, and greatest men in America-would be in Edinburgh in three or four weeks, to roll on the ball that Miss Remind had sat a-moving, (cheers,) he should then have an opportunity of expatiating on the subject of slavery, and he would keep his shot in the locker till Dr. Cheever came. (Laughter land cheers.) He had occasionally heard people doubt the words of holy Scripture,' That God had made of one blood all the nations and families of the earth,' and they had been inclined to maintain that the dark were an inferior race to the white man. Now, ho was not sure but that Adam was black. (Laughter and cheers.) Major Denham, a distinguished African traveller, went to that country, and spent three or four years in the home and cradle of the slave race; and he had got so accustomed to the dark beauties of Africa, and had got so much to admire what men called God's image in ebony, that when ho reached the shores of our own land, and saw the white ladies, oh, they looked very sickly-like to him! (Laughter.) That was a fact in a man's experience. (Renewed laughter.) And he was now going to tell them a fact in philosophy, and he had never heard it answered. The celebrated Dr. Fleming, Professor of Natural Science in the Free Church College, and one of the greatest naturalists of his day, maintained that black was the right and proper color, and that we are all bleached white (roars of laughter)-that we are just like one of these shawls that were seen some-times in the Cowgate (laughter)-the color clean gone. (Renewed laughter.) The opinion was held by some that the dark race was the original race of man. A black face and a white heart-there was many a man who had a white face and A black heart. (Cheers.) So much for the body; now for the mind. Was there any inferiority in the mind of the dark race, as compared with the white race? Well, his distinction used to be this, that the dark people had a bigger heart, and the white s bigger head (laughter;-and for himself, he would rather have a big loving heart than he would have a great big head. (Laughter and cheers.) But within the last two or three years, he had been very much disposed to qualify that opinion. A Mr. Gloucester, who was originally a slave, and who was now in heaven, preached in his pulpit some eight years ago, and at the close of his sermon he made an appeal on behalf of his down-trodden people, and he had never heard a finer, more touching, pathetic, powerful, eloquent address, than came from the lips of that dark man in his pulpit. (Cheers.) So much for the man; now for the woman. (Loud cheers.) He would like uncommonly well to see the white-faced lady that would take the shine oat of their friend there. (Laughter and cheers.) In regard to the connection of the Churches of America with slavery, he must say that he denounced the conduct of the Churches in this matter. (Applause.) He believed a very large share of the guilt lay at the door of the members and ministers of Churches, and be would tell them bow. (Cheers and slight
<c04>
hissing.) They might hiss away. He had read for the last ten years a Presbyterian minister's periodical, published in Philadelphia, which denounced every national sin, but had never put its finger on the minister sin of slavery; bat if any movement against slavery was made, then the denunciations were swift against such efforts. He had read a sermon by a Presbyterian minister in New fork, supporting the Fugitive Slave Law, which he was bound to denounce; and that sermon contained, also, the statement that the writer believed that the reason why God converted Onesimus was to show' that Christianity was compatible with slavery.) (Cries of ‘Oh, oh.') Nothing could be more shocking, mire revolting, or more offensive to humanity than that. With regard to the Fugitive Slave Law, he would defy any such law, and aid the slave to achieve his liberty, as ha held the law of God to be supreme. He trusted the termination of slavery would be peaceful; but he believed that unless America wipe off this stain, and sat the bondsman free, the curse of Heaven would come down upon that country. He wished to love America; he ad-mired many of her institutions; and were they free, he would rejoice to see that Anglo-Saxon race, with the Bible in one hand and the flag of liberty in the other band, march south to Cape Horn; but if they were to carry slavery with them, his prayer was, that God would wither the Republic that was cursed with slavery. (Cheers.) The Rev. Doctor concluded by moving that a cordial vote of thanks be given to Miss Remond for her address. (Cheers.) 
The vote of thanks having been carried by acclamation, a similar compliment was passed to the chairman, and the meeting separated shortly after ten o'clock.

From the London Eastern Times, Oct. 20th 
SLAVERY IN AMERICA.
A lecture on the above subject was delivered on Wednesday evening last, in the Baptist Chapal, Commercial street, Whitechapel, by the Rev. Chas. Stovel.
The chair was taken at half-past seven o'clock by George Gowland, Esq. The REV. W. H. Bonner offered prayer; after which, the Chairman introduced the lecturer, who) he stated had been well-known among them for the last thirty years as one of the greatest advocates for our civil and religious liberty. The subject of slavery was one of deep interest to England. It was a subject of family interest the two nations, America and England, had sprung from one common source. They were brother Englishmen in fact, and to think that such a state of things should exist in America at the present time, in this age of enlightenment and progress, was really astounding. It was one of the greatest anomalies that could be thought of. Here was a nation professedly Christian, whose cruelty and oppression of a fallow-creature were rampant, and it was the duty of all to endeavor to put down one of the greatest existing evils. He had very great pleasure in introducing their pastor, the lecturer. 
Rev. Charles Stovel then proceeded to makes an earnest and impressive speech, in the course of which he give some interesting reminiscences pertaining to West India slavery, and than proceeded to expose some of the cruelties and horrors of American slavery. He trusted the time was not far distant when all the Churches in England and America would rise as one man, and put down the curse of slavery from the earth.
Mr. Stovel said he had written an address to the American Baptist Churches, which he would read to them, and which he requested them to support.
FRATERNAL ADDRESS
From the. First Calvinistic Baptist Church in England to the Baptist Churches in he United States of America.
DEAR BRETHREN: Since the passing of your American Fugitive Slave Law, in 1850, more than one beloved member in the body of Christ has found refuge in our communion. Compassion for them in their expatriation and personal injuries has combined with other facts to fix our attention again on the slavery tolerated in the United States, and called for the present appeal to your Christian principle.
From the time when our Church was organized, in 1633, rejoicing in the extension of our Churches in England, and from the departure of Roger Williams with the charter for Rhoda Island, in American, we have ever been open to the advice and exhortation of Churches cherishing the same faith and subjected to the same Lord. We also use the same Christian and fraternal faithfulness to the Churches in communion wherever the will and honor of our Lord have been by them resisted or defaced before mankind. 
Bear with us, therefore, brethren, while we submit to you that, as the" witnesses of the Christ, and recipients of His great salvation, a great work devolves on you in separating from the defenses of American Slavery the prestige and moral influence which they derive from connivance or open advocacy in the Churches, by the members or the ministers of your communion. Worldly and wicked man, when advocating this sin, only disgrace them-selves; but you, in refusing to defend, to comfort, and, when possible, to release its victims, dishonor the Lord whom you serve, in whose mercy you hope, and by whose name you are known in all the world. 
It is written, ’He that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, shall surely be put to death. ‘Under this law of God, on evidence which no power could refute, the African Slave Trade has been justly condemned as piracy. The American Slavery, which sprung from it, therefore, has no justification from God. The legal maxim, 'Parlus sequitur ventrem,' makes the child of a stolen mother to inherit the just claim of that injured mother to liberty, and compensation for her wrongs. The addition to your slaves by kidnapping from the Northern States, and by the piratical slave trade on your Southern shores, adds nothing to mitigate the criminal claim to property in American slaves. However protected by special pleading, violence, and civil law, claims so hostile to the love of God in Christ, and the very letter of His command, ought never to be countenanced or spared by the witnesses and the followers of the Lamb.
American Slavery contains within itself elements which can never exist but in direct hostility to God. He has made human life, the marriage relation, a free exercise of conscience, the use of His Word, in personal parity, and the action of the heart in worship before His throne, sacred. Such personal rights are kept at the disposal of God alone, in preparation for His judgment. Whether willingly or by force, their transfer to the disposal of man is a robbery of God. That this conviction larks in the minds of slaveholders is certain, from the fact that they themselves, while boastfully professing to send the book of God and His salvation to Africa, with-hold it as far as possible from Africans who are to slaves on their own estates. They profess to send the Gospel to the world, and withhold its blessings from the inmates of their own homes. This is proof He that the slavery perpetrated there to no conscientious mistake, but the deliberate nourishment of what its advocates know to be incompatible with a free and unsophisticated use of God's most Holy Word.
<c05>
American slavery is supported by means which cannot be tolerated without rebellion against the Christ of God. Witness that large and injured class of colored people, who suffer so much wrong in all the States. Whence came they? If, as it is pleaded, their anthers are less than human; then it is written, ’He that boweth down to a beast shall surely be put to death.' If they be women, as the facts prove, then have they human rights, and the profligacy of white man, which has produced their off spring, is a crime that calls for judgment. Their unjust expulsion from equal privilege in the place of prayer, is proof that this unrighteousness is known by multitudes who refuse, before God and men, the repentance, the compassion, and the redress which it demands. It is only natural that men who have enslaved their own children should in perpetuating slavery break all the laws and precepts of their-Redeemer. By the impulse of human passions, when once defiled, sin is forced onward to perpetual increase. The wicked flew when no man pursueth, and therefore the guilty fear of slaveholders nourishes a revolting augmentation of wrongs. Covering as with a pall details of violence and impurity which have reached our knowledge, and which God will judge, we testify that the whipping, paddling, m timing, starving, branding, torturing, and in various ways the murdering of slaves, and the cowardly appeals to physical violence against the persons and interests of Christian men who, like their Lord, compassionate the slaves, are features in this reign of terror at which humanity itself is shocked. Instead of compromising the laws of Christ by which these sins are condemned, and the perpetrators of them called to repentance or excommunication, the time and the occasion call for greater faithfulness. The kingdom of Christ and of God does not depend on gifts of money gained by processes so criminal in the south of America. We pray that brethren whose hands are clean from this iniquity may in their love and freedom do what they can for God; and leave the partners in this fearful crime to circulate in their own way, their gospel according to slavery.
Bear with us, brethren, for our pity moves not to wards the slaves alone. Their peculiar sorrow ends with this mortal life, but facts evolving now through many years, show in the slave proprietors a progressive moral degradation, whose aspect looks out fearfully on the world to come. Firmness combined with faithful obedience to Christ commands esteem. But every moral process which fortifies the soul of man against the teaching of our loving Lord, end where it may, demands compassion. If without holiness no man shall see the Lord, we may with justice claim your faithful service for men who love system which cannot be supported without sin. Before your eyes, nearer, if not more distinctly than before our own, the growing efforts to extend slavery; the coarseness of its defence, even in your Senate; the bold advance in slave legislation, making the system more bitter by law; the Fugitive Slave Law, and its terrible effects; the constant decline of moral feeling in your churches, tinctured by the love of this sin; your camp and association meetings with sales of slaves, your revival meetings holden in rooms hung round with bloody whips, your assemblies for prayer in which four millions of your own enslaved citizens must not be named; your conversions, which bring no compassion for the oppress-ed, and no abhorrence of the impure; your ministers who, defending this barbarous crime, blaspheme the name of Jesus; and the domestic influence it exerts, which, by creating a jealousy but too well founded, and putting the objects of that jealousy into a woman's power, makes her the most cold, pitiless and unrelenting tormentor of her own sex. All these, and a thousand evils such as these, by resisting the will of God, which is our sanctification, place the agents, authors, and defenders of American Slavery more prominently forward as objects of Christian compassion than any other men. For their sakes, therefore, we implore the advantages which a faithful Christian discipline was by the Redeemer ordained to secure.
Brethren, we are yours in the Lord,
(Signed)
CHARLES STOVEL, Pastor.
GEORGE GOWLAND, Deacon and Chairman.
The Rev. W. H. Bonner, of Trinity Chapel, Southwark, then made a few remarks, expressing his entire approval of the address, and stating chat he considered the Rev. Charles Stovel was emphatically the right man in the right place. He referred to Dr. Baron Stow, as inviting the Rev. Dr. Fuller, a slaveholder, to preach in his pulpit in Boston. He move! that the address be adopted.
Mr. MATTHEWS, in seconding the resolution, said he knew the effect which that address would produce in America. There was a million of Baptists. Of these, twenty thousand were slaveholders, who ruled the denomination. Public sentiment trade slavery, and could abolish it. The letter prepared by their worthy pastor, and sent by the board to America, had an historical importance. One effect of the discussion which it produced was, that it had divided the missionary body into three separate societies. First, the Southern Society, has and on the principle the that slavery is right; secondly, the American Free Mission Society, hostile to slavery in principle and effects; and thirdly, the American Missionary Union, which was in league with the slaveholders. He knew that the American Baptists in New York would gladly publish the address, and thus, while making slavery disgraceful, hasten its overthrow. He had much pleasure in seconding the resolution.
The resolution was then put to the meeting, and carried unanimously; also a vote of thanks to the Rev Charles Stovel, for his eloquent and deeply interesting lecture

THE REIGN OF TERROR.
To the Editor of the New York Tribune:
SIR,-At the urgent solicitation of many friends, and with the desire that the citizens of the North may be informed of what reception they are likely to meet in the South, should duty call them thither, I have concluded to publish a more explicit account of my recent experience of mob law in Northern of Alabama than the press has yet made known.
Some months since, an esteemed friend, and well-known teacher, W. R. Ellis., Esq., of Kingston, Mass., received a letter from an old acquaintance, Mr. J. J. Giers, of Valhermoso, Morgan Co., Ala., offering him the position of principal in an academy at Somerville, in his neighborhood. This offer, Mr. Ellis thought fit to decline, but recommended me in his stead. September 1, I received a communication from Mr. Giers, requesting me, if I de-sired the situation in question, to visit the South at by once. As I had been suffering for some time from pulmonary disease, my friends thought that a warmer climate than ours might prove beneficial to my at health, and advised me to accept the offer. I started from Boston, September 3d, for Northern Alabama, via Charleston, S. C. Among the few passengers upon the steamer South Carolina, there was one Boston merchant. I made the acquaintance of several teachers who had taught in the South, and alluded in conversation with them to ray prospective situation at Somerville, but cautiously avoided any reference to the subject of slavery. On arriving at Charleston I took the cars, and, after a tedious ride through South Carolina and Georgia, reached Val-
<c06>
hermoso, Sept. 15, and was received by Mr. Giers and his excellent family in the most hospitable manner. Mr. Giers, who is himself a slaveholder, recommended me to the Trustees of the Somerville Academy as a suitable person for Principal, and in a few weeks I was duly notified of my appointments. I entered upon my duties Thursday, Oct. 4. Friday morning I was summoned before Judge William H. Campbell, on the charge of being an Abolition emissary who had come to incite the slaves to murder and rapine upon the evidence of the following letter:-
CHARLESTON, S. C., Sept. 13, 1860.
To COL. RATHER, Decatur, near Somerville, Ala.:
DEAR SIR-Although personally unacquainted with you, we take leave, on a question of grave public import, to communicate certain facts, which, in your discretion, you may use as you think advisable. In the present state of the political world, we hold that Southern men should feel their interests to be identical-as they are-and feel bound to do all that fraternal regard dictates for their mutual welfare and-protection.
Yesterday, in conversation with a gentleman who had just arrived in our city by the steamship South Carolina, from Boston, we accidentally procured the following information:-
Our informant avowedly ‘a Northern man with Southern principles, 'related that on the voyage from Boston to Charleston, he had an' amusing fellow-passenger, a live Yankee,' &c. In describing the peculiarities and idiosyncrasies of this' fellow-passenger our informant lightly touched on the slavery question. We naturally asked if he-the fellow passenger-was an Abolitionist. The answer was immediately given in these words: ’Of the worst sort; as regular Garrison, Wendell Phillips man.' Also, that he disgusted every one on board; and if he had not been very sick on the passage, would have been whipped before he reach-ed Charleston’ On inquiring where he was staying in Charleston-for we had heard enough to convince us, and really thought that the sea voyage back to Boston would improve his health-we were informed that he had taken the train, and was en route for your town; that he is by profession a school-teacher, and was going to Somerville to take charge of your village school, under contract. We inquired his name.
Our informant here asked why we wanted to know so much about the man. We stated that we intend-ed to write to some discreet and respectable citizen of Somerville, and through him warn the community of this Wendell Phillips rascal. Our informant, for private reasons-connected with his Boston home, we supposed-begged not to be pressed any further on the subject Knowing that if you were warned of this schoolmaster, and had a list of the passengers of the South Carolina-which list we enclose-that you would have no difficulty in identifying the individual, we allowed our informant, the' Northern man with Southern principles,' to be silent on this point.
Any comment on this subject from us would be impertinent and in bad taste. We write jointly, because both joined the conversation, and were similarly affected by it. 
It remains only for us to say, that we hold ourselves responsible for any and everything herein contained. Should our apprehensions prove groundless, or should we have been the means of warding off danger from your midst, we, in either event, shall be gratified.
Very respectfully,
CHARLES INGLEBY,
WM. S. McCOY.
When the Judge finished reading the letter, there arose from the crowd a general yell of execration, with cries of ‘Hang him!’ Shoot him!'
As soon as I could make my voice audible, I demanded my right as an American citizen to be heard in self-defence, and offered, if opportunity were given me, to vindicate myself from an accusation so utterly false. The Honorable Judge replied in the following language: ‘You are a G-d d-n black-hearted Abolitionist. You came from Boston, and that is proof enough against you! You needn't try to vindicate yourself, for you can't do it.'
I requested him to send to Mr. Giers, and inquire for what purpose I came South, and ask the various negroes, with whom I had ridden hours about the country, if I had spoken to them of freedom, or tampered with them in any way.
The Judge answered, ‘I know you have done nothing amiss as yet. You are more sly than your fellows in Texas. You want to insinuate yourself into the confidence of our unsuspecting people, by pretending to be a teacher, and then by-and-by giving our niggers strychnine to put into the water of the village.’
When the Judge had ended, a young lawyer named Patterson mounted a sugar-box, and spoke substantially as follows: ’Fellow-citizens, have you not heard of the horrible outrages in Texas, caused by the d-d Abolitionist teachers? Have you not heard of the plots in Talledga County, to poison the springs and murder our fellow-citizens, all caused by the d-d Yankees? And now, fellow-citizens, into our quiet village comes another of this d-d black-hearted crew to incite our niggers to deeds of violence. The enemy is in our midst-what shall we do with him?’ (Cries of ‘Kill him’' ‘Hang him’ 'Put him through.’) 'Yes, we will put him through.' Then, turning to me, he said, ‘Go back to them who sent you here, and tell them we wish no Bostonians among us. Fellow-citizens, all who are in favor of this man's leaving this town in-two hours, say aye.' There was no vote in the negative. I observed, however, that quite a number abstained from voting. Though they may have thought that I was unjustly treated, no one dared to lisp a word in my defence.
After listening to other abusive and threatening language from the Hon. Judge and the bystanders, and convinced of the utter folly of attempting to reason with an infuriated mob, I consented to leave town.
Much of the two hours given me were spent in vain endeavors to procure a conveyance for myself and trunk to Valhermoso. Returning to the village from my fruitless search, I was met by a mob, headed by lawyer Patterson, who commanded me to open my trunk. Refusing to do so, unless by legal authority, it was broken open. Its contents were thoroughly examined, and the sides of the trunk sounded for concealed drawers. My books were ransacked to find something of an incendiary character. The newspapers which I had wrapped about my shoes were carefully scrutinized. One of these was a copy of the Boston Herald which was taken for a Black Republican sheet, and when discovered to be a Douglas organ, was pronounced by the by standers ad-d sight worse than a Black Republican paper.' There was also a copy of the Boston Traveller, with one of Henry, Ward Beacher's sermons, which, however, contained no allusion to slavery. The name of Beacher added to the excitement; but the climax was reached when they found among my letters, one written by the Hon. Charles. Sumner in 1854. For a few moments, I thought my time had come.
Taking what papers they thought suspicious, the mob left, cursing me with the foulest oaths that ever disgraced human lips.
On collecting my scattered property, I discovered that several articles of clothing were missing. What there was of an incendiary character about my Shirts, I cannot imagine. I trust they may have 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS:
The United States Constitution is' a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institutions. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States are binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE FRAMING THEE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THIS RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the times has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
been the means of bringing clean linen into fashion in a region where, according to my observation, it is seldom seen.
I finally bargained with a person to convey my trunk to Valhamoso on the following morning, and immediately set out for that place on foot. Exhausted in body and sick at heart, I dragged my weary limbs, under a burning mid-day sun, over the rugged mountain road. I had gone about three miles, when I heard a hallooing behind me, and presently three men upon horseback rode up at full speed, ordered me to stop, and dismounting, approached me. One of them, who held in his hand a long leather thong or lasso, with a slip-noose at the end, said,
'We are come to hang you, so now prepare yourself.' I replied, 'I am ready,' and folding my arms, awaited the result. After the outrage and indignity I had already suffered, worn out by anxiety and bodily fatigue, I felt in the same passive state which a man sometimes feels on the deck of a sinking ship, when the last hope of escape has died out in his breast. The ruffians were apparently about to put their threats into execution, when the eldest, a man of fifty, cried out, 'Hold on, boys, let's talk with him a spell, first.' Accosting me with the numberless oaths with which the Alabamians seem wont to garnish their elegant speech, but which I do not care to repeat, be asked, 'What sent you down South to murder us all?' I told him, I came by invitation of a slaveholder, and if they would go with me, I would prove my innocence of any design against their slaves. This was received with jeers.
Finally they said, 'If you will confess the truth, that you came to stir up the slaves, and tell us who sent you, we will let you go scot-free; if not, we will kill you. 'I told them they could kill me, if, they pleased, but I should not perjure myself. As I remained calm, and evinced no fears of death, the villains supposed that I was armed, and commanded me to give up my pistols. When I told them I had no weapon of defence, they seized me and threw me' into a pond of water by the roadside. The pond was one of those so common in the Southï¿½a mere bog-hole, abounding with venomous reptiles. I sank knee-deep in the mud at the bottom. The chief ruffian cut a large pole, with which he threatened to split my skull unless I attempted to walk across, well knowing that I could not extricate myself in the deep water. I refused to move, however, and at length my valiant assailant turned to leave me, calling out to me to go home and tell my Northern friends that they would hang any one who came down there. The ruffians were Charles England, his eldest son, and Thomas H. Morrow, son of the Postmaster at Somerville.
After a time I succeeded, God only knows how,, in reaching the house of Mr. Giers. He was himself absent, but the Christian kindness manifested toward me by his family, at a moment when I so much needed it, will never be forgotten by me. As my assailants had threatened to burn down Mr. Giers's house, if he sheltered me, word was sent to several planters in the neighborhood, who came armed with guns. I slept that night, for the first time, with a loaded revolver under my pillow, which weapon was given me by a noble-hearted youth, himself the son of an extensive slave-owner, with the advice to shoot the first man who should offer to molest me. Several planters expressed their regret that I should leave Alabama with so unfavorable an impression of their State, but could not advise me, under the circumstances, to remain. I left at once, and arrived at Boston, Friday, Oct. 12. about the time that the distinguished Alabamian orator, Mr. Yancey, was instructing the Bostonians as to their political duties, and depicting in glowing colors the beauties of that' peculiar institution,' the debasing and brutalizing effect of which I had. just been compelled so painfully to experience in the orator's own State.
Such is my story. All of the statements herein made I hold myself in readiness to substantiate. In, all essential particulars, my tale is confirmed by an article copied into the Charleston Courier from the Somerville Democrat, which gives a detailed account of the occurrence. To this article I beg leave to refer those who may be disposed to question the truth of my narrative.
WILLIAM J. BREWSTER.
Boston, Oct. 17, 1860.

ACQUITTAL OF THE HITCHINGS. 
The Cheraw correspondent of the Charleston, Mercury under date of Oct. 22d, says, in reference' to the trial of the two Abolitionists at Bennettsville:
The trial of the two Hitchings, father and son, came off, as in a former letter I mentioned it would, on Friday, the 19th inst., but not at Clio, or before the Clio Vigilance Committee. They were tried at Bennettsville, and before a Committee of seventy persons, selected from the several beat companies in the District. They were acquitted by a vote of eleven for hanging, and fifty against it. In addition to the fact of their having acknowledged the purchase of the arms, and the arrival of part of them at this place, and the further fact that the elder Hitchings had been corresponding with Wm. H. Seward and Horace Greeley, two, gentlemen from Pekin appeared as witnesses, one of whom, Dr. Hadley, offered to testify that he had heard the elder Hitchings declare his intention to array the North against the South, so far as was in his power, on the question of slavery.
The Committee, however, in view of the fact that the evidence against the accused was solely circumstantial, decided that the death penalty, in this case, should not be inflicted. They determined, nevertheless, that the two Hitchings should leave the State, and appointed a sub-committee of six, who forthwith performed the duty of conducting them to the North Carolina line; notwithstanding Dr. Hadley's application to one or more magistrates for a warrant for their arrest, which was not granted. Where they will go next, and what further attempts they may make to aid in the bloody work of assisting the minions of Lincoln to crush the South into obedience to his hellish programme, time alone can disclose. It is to be hoped, however, that the citizens of South Carolina will take proper care of them. If they should ever dare to come over this side of the river to recover their arms, their hardihood will be repaid by a speedy application of the halter. The arms are still held, here as trophies of Black Republican discomfiture. They will, of course, be confiscated, and applied to the service of the State.

From the New York Tribune,
THE SOUTHERN MEDICAL STUDENTS AGAIN.
The Southern Medical Students of the University in Fourteenth street were called to meet again last night, at the University Hall; but the Faculty, not wishing to become committed to the movement, refused to allow of its use, and the meeting was held in Breckinridge Hall, opposite Astor Place. Between 60 and 70 Southern students, and 20 and 30 invited guests and strangers, were present. Capt. Richards was elected permanent chairman, with four secretaries from the students.
The Chairman stated the object of the meeting to. be for the students to consider among themselves! what course they were to pursue in relation to the result of the late Presidential election. He hoped their movements would be independent of any movements either State or sectional.
The reading of the resolutions was called for, when Dr. Ashley rose and said, that the meeting had not as yet decided whether they would have any, resolutions. He thought the appointment of a Committee, to draft resolutions was premature.(A voice,' 'The medical students feel capable of transacting their own business.' Another voice, 'All reporters, except those of the Herald and Express, will leave the room.) Dr. Smith said he was a Virginian of 28 years standing, and he would yield to no man in his ardent devotion to the South; but he hoped the students would not make themselves ridiculous, as the Southern medical students of Philadelphia last year made themselves ridiculous. There was not one of that body who had not since heartily regretted the step they took. (A voice, 'Are you a Southern man?" 'I am.' ï¿½Where do you live?' ï¿½I am from Culpepper Co., Virginia, and Dr. Charles W. Ashley is my name. 'A voice, 'Hurrah for Culpepper county!' and laughter.) 
The Chairman then introduced the Hon. Mr Clinton, of Miss. He said: Mr. President and young gentlemen of the South. (Cheers, and cries of' That's the talk.,') I am here by the invitation of the medical students from the South. I always respond to a call of that kind with all the fervor of a Southern heart. He was glad to meet them under the circumstances by which they were surrounded. While he had ever been devoted to the Union, he did not believe in continuing devotion to a Union
<Co2>
that did not guarantee them equal rightsï¿½such a devotion to a Union that deprived them of their rights in the territories was unworthy of being entertained by them. (Cheers.) Mr. Clinton then proceeded to give an account of his travels in the Northern States, and of his unsuccessful efforts to convert voters to his doctrines in this respect. He regretted that he had spoken in favor of the Union. The South had been willing to stand by the principle of non-intervention, and leave the people to take action as to whether they would or would not have Slavery in the Territories, restricted alone by the Constitution of the United States, the Supreme Court to be the sole arbiter as to whether any law was passed in contravention of it. He should go home and tell as proud a people as live on this globe, that they were snubbed at the North, and their threats treated with scorn, and that they could not with honor longer remain in the Union. Live in the Union, be said, governed by a party that teaches to the world that a negro is equal to a white man? The man that would do it is not to be found. (' No,; sir-ee,' and laughter.) The election of Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States was not of itself, independent of everything else, a sufficient,. cause for the dissolution of the Union; but when a President was elected who believed in negro equality, he would not be satisfied with a dissolution of the Union; he would rend the world asunder to prevent so nefarious a doctrine being carried out.(Cheers.) He would offer up his wife and his two children in opposition to such an accursed doctrine. The, speaker then referred to the three objects of Government, as enunciated by Websterï¿½the protection of life, liberty, and property. He complained that the secessionists were not respected by the Republican party. That party says that the talk of the South is all gammonï¿½that she will do nothing. (A voice, 'I hope she will fool them.' Laughter.)
The speaker declared that, as certainly as they; were assembled there, the South would secede. (Great cheering.) The speaker then drew a lively picture of the States wheeling into line for dissolution. The border States, he said, would have much to risk, but they would, he believed, make; the necessary sacrifice to principle. The Cotton States should secede before the Cotton crop was sold. They would withhold patronage from the North; men would be turned out of business, and inquire the cause, and the two parties at the North would fight out the question themselves. He met a Republican, the other day, who asked the speaker when the seceding States meant to go, and added, that wherever they went, this country meant to have the land.
Other conversation was detailed, ending with the assertion that the South was a bourne from whence no Republican would be allowed to return. The speaker closed by saying that the duty of the Southern students was to return to their Southern homes. He retired amid great cheering. The resolutions, drafted by the Committee appointed for that purpose, were then read. They are as follows:-
Whereas, in the late very exciting; and important election for President and Vice-President of the United States of America, Abraham Lincoln and. Hannibal Hamlin, purely sectional candidates, with sectional feelings, and avowed hostility to the institution of Slavery, in the which we, as citizens of Southern States, are thoroughly identified and interested, have become elected to these highest offices in the gift of our American people; and
Whereas, such election indicates to us that a majority of the Northern States indorse the doctrines enunciated and held to by the Anti-Slavery party, through their leaders, Seward, Sumner, Greeley, Chase and others, therefore, be it
Resolved, 1st, That, under these circumstances, our honor, our dignity, and our fidelity to our Southern homes and institutions, demand that we shall immediately withdraw our patronage from the Northern States and their institutions, and that we give from this time forward our support to our own section.
2d, That we with pride congratulate the citizens of New-York City on their manly duty in the recent vote for President, etc., and that we will gratefully remember their devotion to the Union.
Dr. Simms then addressed the meeting. He said that he was a Southerner, but did not wish to have anything to do with politics. He spoke of the advantages possessed by the medical schools of New York over those of any other part of the country. He would counsel them not to go home until the actual secession of the States to which they individually belong.
Capt. St. Clair Morgan, of Nashville, Tenn., was then introduced,. He said he had been one of the most conservative of men, and but a short time since was serving as a body-guard of the Union candidate. (A voice,' 'Three cheers for John Bell of Tennessee. 'Another voice,' ï¿½That is played out.') He read a telegraphic dispatch from Richmond to F. J. Drake, stating that South Carolina had seceded. He would grasp hands with the city of New York, for she had fought nobly, and would like to take many of them South with him. (A voice, 'If they are disposed to go.') The speaker counseled them to be well guarded in their actionï¿½to do nothing rashly.
A gentleman at this stage rose and asked if the dispatch was from Richmond. Would gentlemen believe that they have news in Richmond sooner than in the city of New York?
Three cheers were called for the man who gave the cane to Brooks with which he caned Sumner, in response to which Mr. Dix, of South Carolina, favored them with a poetical quotation.
Gen. Bynam, of Chattanooga, Tenn., advised the students to go home.
The resolutions were debated in short speeches, and they were finally modified so as to advise students to go home only after the States to which they respectively belong shall have actually seceded. [Commendable prudence!]
During the latter part of the evening, eager inquiries were made for the Tribune reporter, and some amusing mistakes were made by a few raw country boys, who appeared to have the interests of that individual specially in charge. Among others, may be mentioned the case of Dr. M. H. Henry, of Union square, who was leaving the room. He was roughly accosted by some students as the reporter of the Tribune, who, without asking, attempted to search him. They were quickly repulsed by the Doctor in a quiet and prompt manner.
THE TEMPEB OF NORTHERN MERCAN-TILE CORRESPONDENCE.
The following letter from a New York commercial firm, says the New York Evening Post, is addressed to one of its Southern customers. It is of even tenor, if not date, with many others that are following the birds about these days toward the equator. We suspect the South will get enough of disunion to satisfy them, before it comes; if so, so much the better:-
'NEW YORK, Oct. 24, 1860.
Gentlemen,,ï¿½Yours of the 19tb inst.19th inst. is received.
We notice your order, and especially your remarks in relation to the Presidential election. We regret extremely the tone of our recent Southern correspondence, and the threatened consequences in case Mr. Lincoln should be the choice of a majority of the people of the United States, which now seems hardly doubtful. This state of feeling in your section is unfortunate, not only from patriotic and fraternal considerations?, but from commercial ones as well. We must, of course, decline to fill your order, and indeed to sell to your section, except for cash, even to customers with whom we have long done business with the greatest confidence and pleasure, as well as profit. The condition of revolution and war does not permit the citizen to act his own pleasure, and we cannot now say how soon your circumstances may make it impossible to reach you through our usual traveling agents, or even by the post office or express, nor how long the most solvent and trustworthy of you will be able to meet your engagements. The numerous drafts upon your population to fill the ranks of a hostile army, and the heavy taxes which will be necessary to provide and maintain an army and a navy, and to keep up all the complicated and extensive arrangements, at home and abroad, of a new general government, in the midst of unfriendly and dangerous influences, and surrounded by a frontier of vast extent, excited, alarmed and undefended, can hardly fail to be fatal, for a considerable period, to the productiveness of your plantations, to the value of your property, and to the business resources of your customers. We are, therefore, compelled to give more attention 
to extending our trade westward and northward, where the avenues of trade will be safer and its rewards surer than where the result of an election is considered a cause of war.
With repeated thanks for the favors of past years, with unabated friendly feelings, and the hope that the evils which your politicians threaten may be 
avoided, we remain still,
Very truly yours,
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 16. 1860.
SOUTHERN DESPERATION.
The election of the Republican candidate, Abraham Lincoln, to the Presidency of the United States, has operated upon the whole slaveholding South in a manner indicative of the torments of the damned. The brutal dastards and bloody-minded tyrants, who have so long ruled the country with impunity, are now furiously foaming at the mouth, gnawing their tongues for pain, indulging in the most horrid blasphemies, uttering the wildest threats, and avowing the most treasonable designs. Their passions, 'set on fire of hell,' are leading them into every kind of excess, and they are inspired by a demoniacal phrenzy. To the South is strikingly applicable, at this hour, the language of the Revelator:ï¿½' Babylon is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. Her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. In the cup which she hath filled, fill to her double. In her is found the blood of prophets and of saints. How much she bath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire; for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her. "So much for dealing in 'slaves, and souls of men,' trampling upon all human rights, defying God and his eternal law, and giving unlimited indulgence to every sensual and devilish inclination!' ï¿½Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.'
Never has the truth of the ancient proverb,' 'Whom the gods intend to destroy, they first make mad,' been more signally illustrated than in the present condition of the Southern slaveholders. They are insane from their fears, their guilty forebodings, their lust of power and rule, their hatred of free institutions, their consciousness of merited judgments; so that they may be properly classed with the inmates of a lunatic asylum. Their dread of Mr. Lincoln, of his administration, of the Republican party, demonstrates their insanity. In vain does Mr. Lincoln tell them,'' I do not now, nor ever did, stand in favor of the unconditional re peal of the Fugitive Slave Law',-'I do not now, nor ever did, stand pledged against the admission of any more Slave States into the Union'ï¿½'I do not stand pledged to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia'ï¿½'I do not stand pledged to the prohibition of the slave trade between the different States' they have just as fiercely as though he were another John Brown, armed for Southern invasion and universal emancipation! In vain does the Republican party present but one point of antagonism to slaveryï¿½to wit, no more territorial expansionï¿½and exhibit the' utmost cautiousness not to give offence in any other directionï¿½and make itself hoarse in uttering professions of loyalty to the Constitution and the Union-ï¿½ still, they protest that its designs are infernal, and' for them there is sleep no more'! Are not these the signs of a demented people?
Nevertheless, there is' method' in their madness., In their wildest paroxysms, they know precisely how far to proceed.' ï¿½ Will they secede from the Union?' Will they jump into the Atlantic? Will they conflagrate their own dwellings, cut their own throats, and' enable their slaves to rise in successful insurrection? Perhaps they willï¿½probably they will not! By their bullying and raving, they have many times frightened the North into a base submission to their demandsï¿½ and they expect to do it again! Shall they, succeed?

ï¿½HARRINGTON.' 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, 114 and 116 Washington Street, Boston, have just published 'HARRINGTON: A Story of True Love. By the Author of What Cheer, The Ghost, A Tale of Lynn, &c. 'It makes a handsomely printed volume of 558 pages, and from beginning to end is marked by rate descriptive power, and is all alive with thrilling interest. Since the publication of' Uncle Tom's Cabin,' no novel relating to: slavery has been published, equaling 'Harrington' in exciting incidents? and fascinating delineations. Its scenes are drawn from the startling events of our; own times, -without excess of coloring; and its personal references will be sure to excite curiosity, and extend its sale. All the friends of freedom should not only read it, but endeavor to obtain for it the widest circulation. It is the 'sensation book' of the season. [Extracts and a more extended notice next week.]

NEW TRACTS.
Numbers 9, 10 and 11, of the New Series of Anti-Slavery Tracts, are now printed, and ready for sale and distribution at the Offices, 221 Washington street, Boston, and 6 Beekman street, New York. 
No. 9.ï¿½' The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: an appeal to the Legislators of Massachusetts. By L. Maria Child.'ï¿½pp. 36.
This admirable; tract, written with an energy and directness conformable to its mottoï¿½'Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee'ï¿½displays equally its author's well-known power to touch the heart and moisten the eyes. Mrs. Child pleads for those in bonds;' as bound with them.' It is to be hoped that this appeal may rouse the Legislators of Massachusetts to emulate the noble' Personal Liberty Law' of Vermont, which is copied on its last page. The tract, contains also the testimonies of eminent jurists and statesmen, declaring the unconstitutionally, as well as the baseness, of the Fugitive Slave Law.
No. 10.ï¿½' The Infidelity of Abolitionism. By William Lloyd Garrison.'ï¿½pp. 12.
The malignant and calumnious outcry of' Infidelity,' which has been raised by a pro-slavery clergy against the American Anti-Slavery Society, is calmly examined, analyzed and exposed in this brief tract. It shows how the reformer who ventures to oppose a sin which is supported by the wealth, power and influence of the whole community in which he lives, must, of necessity, seem to put himself in antagonism to public quietude and good order; and how, if this sin is also supported by the priesthood, he must also seem, to their adherents, the opposer of true religion. Mr. Garrison shows, in a most clear and convincing manner, that while, to a superficial observer, this must be the first aspect of the case, and will certainly be represented as its true aspect by the opposers of the' reform in question, such reformer is, nevertheless, the. best friend of real order, sound morals, and true religion in that community. Whoever reads one of the papers, popularly called' religious,' should read this tract by way of antidote.
No. 11.ï¿½'Speech of John Hossack, convicted of a violation of the Fugitive Slave Law, before Judge Drummond, of the U. S. District Court, Chicago,,; Illinois.'ï¿½pp. 12. 
This speech, made by one of the most upright, intelligent and truly respectable citizens of the State of Illinois, whose practical justice and humanity caused him to be brought before a pro-slavery Court as a criminal, is an impressive statement of the reasons why a true man, a good citizen, and a Christian, must inevitably refuse obedience to a law so monstrous as the Fugitive Slave Law. Read it, circulate it, and be ready, whenever the occasion shall arise, to act in accordance with its teachings. But, most of all, let us provide that the fugitive shall be so effectually protected in this State, that neither he shall be molested, nor any one endangered by defending him.-C. K. 
<c04>
PROOFS OF CLERICAL UNFAITHFULNESS. 
While the action of the Church is always a great way behind her talk, it is noteworthy that not even, he talk, not, even of that small portion of the Church which claims to be reformatory, comes any where near the requisitions of Christian duty in regard to slavery.
The' Church Anti-Slavery Society,' which, is the attempt of a few zealous persons to arouse the churches and the clergy to a sense of their duty to the slave, is treated by the great majority, of the leaders and representatives of that interest either with absolute indifference or with contemptuous opposition., Since the stand taken by that little Society is very far in advance of any stand yet taken by the popular churches, (being, indeed, second in thoroughness only to the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society and its auxiliaries,) it was a matter of course that no'ï¿½ General Association' of the Clergy, in any State, would favor its action, endorse its Resolutions, or commend it, in the slightest degree, to the sympathy of their churches. But the noticeable fact is, that in these bodies there is not even a minority to favor the ï¿½Church Anti-Slavery Society,' whose very' of name thus proves itself to be a blunder. Take the following specimen of clerical action in relation to it:
Rev. Henry T. Cheever, (Secretary,) addressed the General Association of Congregational and Presbyterian ministers of New Hampshire, at their last meeting,. in behalf of the' Church Anti-Slavery Society.'" The Resolutions which he offered were dropped, and a weaker set, offered by Rev. E. H. Greeley, passed in their place.
The Resolutions submitted by the same active functionary to the General Association of Connecticut, upon the same subject, were indefinitely postponed, without debate, by a nearly unanimous vote. 
The zeal of Mr. Cheever has, no doubt, presented, the claims of his new Society before the various other General Associations and Conferences, but the published proceedings of such others of them as I have been able to find pass by the subject in utter silence.
In the mean time, the clergymen who edit those 'religious' newspapers which have the credit, in the community, of being reformatory, and even anti- slavery, (such as the Independent and Congregationalist.) oppose the' Church Anti-Slavery Society,' while they exert an active influence in the opposite direction, by praising the Christian character of Dr. South-Side Adams, and publicly joining with him in ecclesiastical (and other) actions which imply their recognition of him as a Christian minister. Read, for instance, the following account of a recent Installation in Boston, where the editor of the Congregationalist, with two other clergymen who are prominent in, the management of the Boston Tract Society, met Dr. Adams with such public recognition as a Christian minister as they would have utterly refused to a Universalist or a Unitarian:-
INSTALLATION. Rev. Edwin B. Webb was installed' pastor of the Shawmut Church. Invocation by Rev. H. M. Dexter; Dr. Adams offered prayer; sermon, was preached by Rev. Dr. Shepard of the Bangor Theological Seminary, who set the life of St. Paul as an example; installing prayer by Rev. Dr. Tappan of Augusta, Me.; Dr. Kirk gave the charge to the pastor; Rev. J. E. Dodd the right hand of fellowship; Rev. J. M. Manning the charge to the people; and. Rev. A. L. Stone the concluding prayer.
At the recent annual meeting of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Dr. Bacon, of the Independent, assisted in reflecting Dr. Adams on the Prudential Committee. And when the clergymen of Boston thought it desirable that a new ecclesiastical' Conference' should be formed here, its preliminary meeting, Oct. 10th,. in the present year, was held in Dr. Adams's church in Essex street. In short, Dr. Adams's brother ministers treat his pro-slavery as a thing indifferent and unobjectionable, while they meet the anti-slavery of Dr. Cheever with active opposition.-C.K.W.

TESTIMONY OF THE COVENANTORS. 
NEW YORK, Nov. 5, 1860.
DEAR MR. GARRISONï¿½Herewith I send you a series of resolutions passed last week by our Presbytery-i. e., the New York Presbytery of the Reformed Presbyterian (O. S. Covenanter) Church. This Presbytery includes New England and the eastern end of New York State. The meeting of the Presbytery was large, and the resolutions passed unanimously. N. R. JOHNSTON.
Resolved, That the Foreign Slave Trade is to be deplored as a national crime and curse of enormous magnitude, and that its prevalence and alarming in-' crease are the legitimate results of the sin of the nation in sanctioning and fostering slavery and the inter-State slave trade in the States and Territories of the Union.
Resolved, That against this traffic as most inhuman and most iniquitous, and as not only a burning reproach upon Christianity, but a mighty obstacle in the way of the progress of the gospel in Africa, all Christians and religious bodies should bear a decided and uncompromising testimony.
Therefore, Resolved, That we hereby express our unhesitating condemnation of the recent conduct of the Convention of the New York Diocese of the Protestant Episcopal Church, as well as the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, in refusing to express their condemnation of the foreign slave trade; and we regard this refusal on the part of such large and influential bodies as a lamentable evidence of the corrupting power of all compromise or; complicity with slavery or slaveholders, as such, whether in Church or State.

JUSTICE vs. COLORPHOBIA.
'Superior Court. Rockwell, J. The case of Burton vs. Shoff. The plaintiff is a colored barber in this' city, and the defendant was the agent of Thalberg. At one of Thalberg's concerts, given in this city at Huntington Hall, on April 30th, 1857,. the plaintiff purchased a ticket and went into the hall. Thalberg, seeing Burton go in at the door, directed the defendant to take him out. The defendant did so, and this; action was brought to recover damages for the assault and battery. The cause produced considerable' excitement at the trial, inasmuch as the addresses to the jury savored of politics. Mr. Sweetser argued, the case for the defendant, and Mr. Butler for the; plaintiff. The argument of Mr. Butler did not contain any allusion to the Dred Scott decision. The' Court charged the jury this morning, and ruled that there was no defence to the action on its merits, and that they must find some damages for the plaintiff. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff for $200. -'Lowell Citizen A& News, Sept. 29.
It may be well to note that the counsel for plaintiff, in this case, and who won the suit, was none other than General Benjamin F. Butler, for the last two years Democratic candidate for Governor. And it will be remembered that when stumping the State, in the canvas of 1359, he sharply criticised the position of those Republicans in the Legislature who, disregarding the veto of Governor Banks, voted to remove the word white from the statute book of Massachusetts. Whatever Gen. Butler felt called upon to do as an aspirant for the Gubernatorial chair, or whatever sentiments may be his own, relative to the yet vexed question in Massachusetts, of fair play for black men as well as white, he hesitated not to rightfully apply the law in this case, and thus, by contrast with the Governorï¿½whose political creed was supposed to embody the idea of justiceï¿½gave evidence that his practice was better than his theory. W. C. N.
RESULT OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. Last week, we erroneously included New Jersey as among' the free States which had given their electoral votes for Mr. Lincoln. Her vote will be a divided one. Mr. Lincoln has certainly received 169.votes, independent of, California and Oregon yet to be heard from. Breckinridge is sure of 89ï¿½Bell uncertain.
<c05>
LETTER FROM MR. PILLSBURY.
MENDOTA,(Ill,) Nov. 10, 1860. 
TO THE EDITOR:
Sometimes there is a community, or family, where one is forced to feel the condition of Woman to be scarcely better than that of the plantation slave. And where men have no real respect for their own rights, and no regard whatever for the condition or humanity of their own wives and daughters, to what purpose do we lecture them on their duties to the enslaved, hundreds of miles away?
Whether the East or West fails most in this particular, need not be asked. Nor should I be able or willing to answer.
The words men use,ï¿½plain men, I mean,ï¿½reveal the thought, and the feeling too. With many men, everything is ï¿½mine' It is not only' my farm,' and my house,' and my barn,' but every thing within, upon and around these is' mine' also. And it matters, ot how the possession was obtained. It is all 'mine:' mine in the presence of the wife, often the real owner; mine in the presence of everybody. When , both wife and husband have worked alike hard, fared alike hard, shared alike in every measure of economy and self-denial, still it is all 'mine,' says the stronger instead of the' weaker vessel.'
If the wife have some trade, or is able, as many wives are, by a thousand little handy ways and arts, or by working evenings, when the husband is smoking, or drinking, and babbling politics at some store or barroomï¿½if the wife be thus able to acquire even much faster than the husband, still it is all 'mine,' comes grimly from the same voice. Men give their daughters land, here at the West, at their marriage; but, so far as they are benefited, it might very often as well have been sunk by an earthquake. I never saw a man yet, whose wife owned any land! It is ever and forever,' 'Mine.'
In New England and New York, the butter and cheese making,'' the dairy,' is mostly managed by the women. In New England, where the business is small, it is almost always so. But what man's wife there ever has these articles to sell? A hundred timesï¿½say, many hundredsï¿½I have beard a colloquy like this: A merchant asks a farmer,' Have you butter to sell?' ï¿½I have.' ï¿½What do you ask for it?'''' Twenty-five cents.' 'ï¿½But I am buying for twenty-two, the best,' responds the merchant.' ï¿½Well, you I can't have mine for that,' answers the other.'' I will keep it till February, and then it will bring me twenty-eight.'
And I have heard all this many, many times, in presence of the hard-worked, and apparently little cared for wife, who made it all.
But some actions of men, not often described, are even more significant than their words. I am now speaking, only of these little manifestations every where seen by one who travels with, open eyes and ears, but which not even our most lynx-eyed Woman's Rights lecturers have time always to note. Not long since, I was one of ten men to have tea at a house where the work was all done by two feeble-' looking women. We filled a large table twiceï¿½the second time, six small children, ('one at the breast,') at it. The husband, with his hired man and two large boys, sat comfortably round the fire, not lifting one finger to assist; not so much as to bring the water or wood, or hold the unkempt, uncomfortable, 'and, of course, noisy and troublesome baby. When' all were done tea, it was fully time to start for the lecture. The husband said to his wife, who still sat at the table holding her child, (in the dress in which she had drudged full fourteen hours on that blessed day,)'; Now won't you go to the lecture, and let me' stay and take care of the children'? Such a question seemed to me 'almost' insult added to injury,' with a vengeance. It made me a text, at any rate, for my lecture, which I did not misimprove Such things sometimes happen to me; until men have even declared I never make any previous preparation for speaking; which, by the way, is not true, for I am never doing anything else when awake.
Men, too, will sign notes for other men, even against the protest of their wives; and thus peril, and very frequently lose, the avails of years of labor, done by both parties alike. I could tell sad tales of this kind. Once a man was honest enough to ask his wife's opinion, and then told his friend she protested.'' God!' said the other,' so you are under petticoat government, are you?'' This appeal was too much. He signed; but he soon found it was to his cost.
Men go away, and buy homes and farms, without thinking whether their wives and families will be suited with the purchase, or can be contented or healthy there. I find sometimes here in the West a woman heart-sick and heart-broken, who had followed a reckless adventurer to some wild frontier, more that he might gratify a foolish propensity for hunting, than for anything else.
I know men who spend thirty dollars a year for tobacco, who have not a decently-furnished room in then houseï¿½and I have heard them scold and storm like ruffians, when their wives asked them for a new bedstead; and once I heard such a brute severely censure his wife for asking that a new rocker be put to the broken-down cradleï¿½broken down too, I fear, through long use by what our friend Wright would call' unwelcome children. 'Alas for the poor mother! She seemed more broken down than her cradle. Thirty dollars a year for tobacco, and scold a wife about thirty cents to repair that cradle!
The other day I was at a house where the husband had just lost three hundred dollars by the election of Lincoln. What would be the general scorn and detestation of some unlucky wife, who should in so mean and despicable a way sacrifice that sum of the joint property of the family! And what sympathy would not be showered on the husband!
But my story grow s too long. These are everyday sights and scenes, and generally considered too trivial to elaborate in newspapers. But sometimes they make me almost forget the -plantations of the South. These little words and works of men are yet great revelations of feeling and thought.
'Mine' and 'my' are the two words that tell how much acknowledged right woman has in the common property, while the husband lives. When he dies, the wife becomes the widow, and 'the' relict,' enjoying the use of one third of the property her own hands have earned. And the little, lawful actions of the same men show how earnestly they speak, whenever they say' my' and' mine.' 
PARKER PILLSBURY.
NEW MUSICï¿½just published by Oliver Ditson & Co., 
277 Washington Street.
1. Wauregan. Quick Step, by J. W. Lewis.
2. Ever my spirit lingers with thee. Ballad. Poetry by J. E. Carpenter. Music by C. W. Glover.
3. Song. Spanish orange girl. Sung with great success by Mad. Gazzaniga, Miss Fanny Stockton, Cecelia Flores, and others. Composed by Maestro Scochdopole.
4. Ever of thee. Quick Step. Arranged by J. W. Turner.
5. Cecelia March. By Bilse.
6. Sultana Waltzes. By Charles D'Albert.
7. I love you. Words by George P. Morris. Music by M. W. Balfe.
8. In a lone and dreary chamber. Written by Rev. J. W. Carhart, on seeing the touching account, 
headed.' Let me kiss him for his mother.' Music by L. O. Emerson.
9. The fading rose. Ballad. Music by Veroi.
10. Quick, arise, maiden mine. Air Styvien. Musice by J.Dessaner.
A letter from Rev. Henry T. Cheever to Rev. Dr. Bacon, (its publication refused by' The Congregationalist,') will appear in our next number. Other communications are on file.
<o6>
MRS. DALL'S FRATERNITY LECTURE.
'The women of Boston,-.' said Mrs. Dall, 'in advocating the cause known by the distasteful name of "Woman's Right, " have chosen to confine themselves to three points; Education, Vocation., and Civil Position. They regard a present consideration of the subject of Marriage and Divorce as premature and unwise, apart from the fact that these subjects are equally the concern of both sexes.'
In the consideration of any subject, how can an earnest soul, in search of truth, set bounds to its investigations? How can a philanthropist with a cold intellection divide up a great humanitarian question; select certain points as proper for thought, reason and feeling, and at the dictate of a worldly wisdom ignore all that remains?
It would be' premature and unwise,' and impossible, for the women of Boston to bring forth a thought that had never agonized their souls, and quite as impossible for the women of New York to repudiste the utterance of a truth, when to them the time had fully come.
If to any one is given a clear perception of an egregious wrong, as no one holds a lease of life, now is always the time to cry aloud and spare not. Perhaps the American nation thought the 'Printer's Boy'' premature" and unwise' when, thirty years ago, he proclaimed the doctrine of' immediate and unconditional emancipation,' for even the friends of the slave who gathered round him stood appalled at the boldness and rashness of his declaration. In the passing of generations, in the life-time of a nation, the loss of caste or influence to the individual is of little consequence, compared to the good to the race in the utterance of a sublime truth, the opening of the way to health and happiness and heaven. 
As the Christian rises above the mists and dark clouds of the tradition and authority, and learns a deeper and truer philosophy of life; as he catches new glimpses of truth, a holy love impels him to fly back in haste, with the gospel of glad tidings to the helpless, ignorant and oppersed. The good Father makes his face to shine on those who will reflect his glory. He reveals his truth to those only who will bravely and generously give it to back to man. There is no surer way to shut the soul against all heavenly influence than ever in its onward, upward way to pause, and put the question to itself,' What now will be said of me?' They who would wish a holy consecration, would devote themselves to the good of the race, must let the weal and the woe of humanity be all and every thing to them, but their praise and their blame of no effect.
How can the women of Boston discuss the civil position of woman, without touching the subject of Marriage and Divorce? Women, as women has nothing to ask but the right of suffrage. All the special statutes of which we complain, all the barbarities of the law, fall on her as wife and mother. We have not yet outlived the Old Feudel idea the right of property in woman. The term marriage expresses the nature of the relation in which man alone is recognized.recognised. It comes from the Latin 'Maris,' husband. Hence, as you look through the statutes and old common law, you find constant mention of 'marital rights,' the of marital rights,' the rights of the husband. Here and there, through the endless labyrinth of authorities, you will be refreshed with a bit of benevolence for the wife in the form of protection. You never hear of 'uxorial rights,' but the' window's dower,' the 'widow's in incumbrance, 'the wife's alimony.'
That' marriage is the concern of both sexes' is certainly no reason why we should not discuss it. The education and vocation of woman are equally the concern of both sexes. In fact, whatever promotes the happiness and development of woman, affects man as deeply as it does herself. If, on the Woman's Rights platform, we are to discuss nothing that concerns man as well as woman, we shall be dumb indeed. Imagine an editorial in the Liberator twenty years ago, saying,' 'In the discussion of slavery on our platform, we shall confine ourselves to the religions, political and commercial view of this question, but we deem it" premature and unwise" to touch on the social relations of the slave; for the wholesale concubinage that prevails at the South concerns the master equally with the slave.'" If, however, we are to have a right to discuss all inequalities, religious, political, civil and social, we may most assuredly discuss marriage, for therein is the greatest inequality between man and woman;ï¿½ an inequality that meets her in Church and State, and at the fireside, and even in her final resting place, where she lies a nameless thing, but the relict of some Saxon lord. Now, do you tell us that a relation which strips woman of her name, her legal existence, her moral responsibility, her property, wages, children, home, that gives the woman to the man as an article of merchandise, though baptized at the altar with apostolic hands heavy with the authority of ages, as an ordinance of God, shall not be sifted, through and through, by those who have for centuries been the blind and innocent victims of this civil and religions conspiracy? While hundreds of our sex. this very hour, at happy firesides and dim cathedral altars, decked in white robes and orange blossoms, are taking owes of obedience, on trembling lips, to this Moloch of the flesh, shall we not teach those who soon shall fill our vacant places, that unquestioned obedience, blind submission and silent endurance suit not the rightful dignity, equality and freedom of the true mother of the race? I would have woman repudiate marriage utterly and absolutely, until our tyrants shall revise their canons and their codes, and by the talisman of justice transform the 'femme covert' into an equal partner, 'the' weaker vessel' into a morally responsible being, 'the' angel of the family altar,' now sued on bended knee, into a noble woman, whose love would dignify and not degrade the man. What wickedness, for a whole class of beings deliberately to make such shipwreck of their liberties;-to hold in such low esteem their sacred,. God-given rights, baptized in blood by the Fathers of the Revolution, rights, the maintenance of which is even now rocking to their very foundations the kingdoms of the Old World! If woman were sufficiently developed to love and appreciate freedom, nothing; could tempt her to accept the kind of marriage man now offers. What man,. with his eyes open, would take a position so hemmed in with disabilities? Suppose the tables turned, and some woman should offer marriage, as now set forth in our church services and statute laws, to Charles Sumner: could the most gifted and beautiful, with power to lay at his feet the wealth of the Indies, induce him to give up his name, his legal existence, his moral responsibility, to be known no more but in and through his legal representative, -on his return to Washington to be introduced in the Senate as Mr. Jane Smith,ï¿½ with no rights, of person, property, wages, children, homeï¿½ a mere dependent on the bounty of his 'fair' owner-the- victim of her whims., caprices, tyranny and abuse held there and thus till death, by the mighty pressure of public sentiment? No! If the man were necessarily buried in the husband, few men could be coaxed into that endearing relation. It seems immensely important to me that woman should be made to feel the monstrous compromise she makes with custom when she consents to bury the woman in the wife.
Some of our noble women have gone into their graves under 'legal protest,' declaring they were not dead, and would not be buried, and their own names should mark their monuments. But what's all that to Paul and Petersdorff? They still declare the husband is the headï¿½to him belong the person and the purse. When Church and State combine, no protest under chains can set the captive free.
To my mind, the matter calls not only for discussion, but for outspoken rebellion.
E.C.S. 
Seneca Falls, N.Y.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SOUTHERN THREATS OF SECESSION.
The Tyrants foaming at the mouth —Senators Chestnut, <illegible> and Hammond resigned their places—State Rights flag thrown to the breeze—Lincoln burned in <illegible> in Florida —Treasonable avowals and proceedings in all directions.
AUGUSTA. Ga., Nov. 10.—A large meeting of citizens was held here to-day. Mayor Blodgett, who perided, stated that he had received information that two citizens had been notified to leave by <illegible> persons. Resolutions were adorted to the effect that it is the duty of every good citizen to <illegible> that the rights of all are respected, and their <illegible> speedily redressed according to law: that the genius of our institutions forbids the punishment of the citizen without a fair trial by jury; that the <illegible> by individuals, however influential, of any of the powers of government, is subversive of all <illegible> and its tendencies are fatal to all the <illegible> of the community, and if existing laws are in sufficient for the protection of the rights of the citizen, the proper course is to petition the Legislation to amend and modify them. There was considerable excitement, but conservative sentiments generally prevailed.
The secessionists had a large and enthusiastic meeting to-night. Resolutions were adopted to the effect that the only remedy for the election of Lincoln <illegible> that the thanks of the South are due to the gallant and brave men of the North who attemption roll back the tide of fanaticism at the recent <illegible> that this meeting is in favor of raising a million of dollars to arm and organize the militia of the State; that this meeting condemns the action of the citizens' meeting to-day. The speeches were <illegible> and the meeting enthusiastic, particularly <illegible> resolution concerning the election of Lincoln.
A delegation of ten Minute Men was appointed to <illegible> the Military Convention at Milledgeville next week.
The people are rejoiced to hear that South Carolina has passed the Convention bill.
Senator Toombs of Georgia, and Senator Chestnut, have resigned their seats in the U.S. Senate.
Delegates from South Carolina are here. Sedate and conservative Georgians have mounted cockades.
Lincoln was burned in effigy in Florida yesterday.
It is reported that the Keystone State steamer was <illegible> to <illegible> down the U. S. flag, and hoist the <illegible> before leaving Charleston.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) Nov. 10.—Mr. Chestnut to-day designed his seat in the U.S. Senate.
Mr. Whaley offered a resolution, accepting his resignation. He said that what under other circumstances would be regarded with regret, could now be only recognized as an act of loyal devotion to South Carolina.
The resignation was accepted by the Assembly with great enthusiasm.
The news of Senator Hammond's resignation, and that the Governor of Mississippi will call an extra <illegible> of the Legislature, was enthusiastically received.
The Courier office displays the Palmetto flag with the words, ’South Carolina has moved; other States will follow.
A bill has been passed, authorizing the banks to suspend specie payments.
The House passed the Senate bill providing for a Convention, after amending it so as to fix the time of the election of delegates on December 6, and for the meeting of the Convention on Dec. 17.
The Senate concurred, and the bill as amended passed unanimously.
A bill has been introduced into the House to provide for police regulations in relation to persons coming from States hostile to the South.
It is expected that Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Texas and Mississippi will go with South Carolina.
The news of the resignation of Senator Toombs was hailed with enthusiasm here.
A resolution has been offered in the Senate, requesting the Governor to raise 10,000 volunteers. It will be considered on Monday.
A meeting, composed of some two thousand men, was held in front of the Congaree House this evening. Speeches were made by Judge Magrath, <illegible> Connor, Colcock and Cunningham.
Mr. Magrath said the State had a right to secede, and if the Government at Washington says she has not, let the Government prove it by taking the right away.
Mr. Colcock said, that although it was a large crowd, he wanted to see one more man in it, and that <illegible> Abraham Lincoln. He would tell him to look upon that great crowd, and then ask if he ever expected to wave his Presidential sceptre over that people. Honest Abe he knew would answer, with downcost eyes, Never!
MONTGOMERY, (Ala.) Nov. 10. Mr. Yancey spoke this evening to a large and enthusiastic crowd.
All parties here will unite in sending disunion members to the Convention. Many influential citizens have tendered arms and money to the Governor.
A plan for secession will be organized next week.
The Governor, the Supreme Court Judges, both Senators, and all the Congressmen save one, are for disunion. The city of Mobile will be against secession, but nine-tenths of the country districts are in favor of it.
There will be thirty thousand minute men enrolled before the first of January.
At a meeting of the leading politicians, it was resolved to insist on a call for an immediate Convention.
MACON, (Geo.) Nov. 10. The Legislature yesterday refused to fix a day for the election of a successor to Senator Iverson until the action of the State is determined.
A bill calling a Convention of the people will be passed in a few days.
Mr. Toombs's resignation is from the 4th of March next.
The retaliatory resolution comes up in the House on Tuesday for a third reading. It provides for a tax of 25 per cent., on all goods from States which have nullified the Fugitiver Slave Law, and exempts foreign goods from taxation.
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 10. — The Minute Men met this evening, and passed a resolution requesting that an extra session of the Legislature might be called. Blue cockades are worn by a few in the streets.
‘THE CUSHINGS' FOR SECESSION.— The brig James Gray, of Boston, reported in our dispatches as having hoisted and saluted the Palmetto flag at Charleston, S. C., belongs to John N. & Wm. Cushing, of Newburyport, who are half brothers of Caleb Cushing. The latter is understood to be interested in the firm. The captain and owners of the James Gray, instead of heralding the man on herseback.’ have simply made themselves ridiculous.-Boston Journal.
STATE FLAGS. The Charleston Mercury has the particulars in regard to the action of Captain Plumer of the James Gray, of Newburyport, owned by Caleb Cushing and his brothers William and John. It says:—
‘Capt. Plumer gathered quite a crowd on North Atlantic Wharf, yesterday, at noon, by his State Rights salute of one gun for each of the fifteen slave States of the South, and one for the brothers, Caleb William and John Cushing—the owners—of Newburyport, from which port the James Gray hails. A large number of flags were floating from deck to mast-head, and the scene was a lively one. At each discharge of the old-fashioned iron gun, three cheers were given for the State saluted. Afterward Capt. Plumer, with the representatives of the press and some mercantile friends, adjourned to the cabin, and pledged the health of captain and owners in iced champagne. 
Mr. L. S. Spratt, by request of the guests, expressed his satisfaction at seeing a Palmetto flag flying at a mast-head. He ventured the assertion that the James Gray was the first vessel so honored, and concluded by wishing the captain a full freight and a quick trip.
The beautiful yacht Mercury, whose sailing qualities have been recently tested to the satisfaction of the owners and builders, Messrs. J. G. & D. C. Marsh, displayed the ‘Lone Star Flag’ yesterday morning. 
We have heard of other similar demonstrations among the shipping, but the particulars have not yet reached us. White, red and blue bunting is in demand.'
NEW KIND OF TREASON. A disunion correspondent of the Charleston Mercury, resident at New Orleans, in regretting the feebleness of the secession sentiment in that city, says: I have spoken of the sentiment of the community. I will add one fact. Letters have been regularly, and at times, in large numbers, forwarded to the address of Mr. Lincoln. This shows the treason which lurks here.
REPUDIATION AT THE SOUTH. The Washington correspondent of the New York Times says that the action of South Carolina merchant, in refusing to pay their honest debts in the North, is severely condemned. One agent for New York houses passed through Washington, on Saturday, on his return home, with $70,000 worth of claims, without having collected a dollar.
One of our leading manufacturing establishments, says the Winsted (Ct.) Herald, received a liberal order from Savannah for goods on the very day of Lincoln's election. The goods ordered were percussion caps!
One of the features of a late fair at Atalanta, Ga., was the appearance on the grounds of twenty pupils of a school, with their teachers, all clothed in Georgia homespun.
<c02>
HENDERSON, Ky.. Nov. 12. Union Meeting in Kentucky. A large and enthusiastic Republican, meeting, irrespective of party, was held to-day. Ex-Governor Dixon presided. Strong Union speeches were made by Bell, Breckinridge and Douglas men. Union resolutions were adopted unanimously. Secession is strongly deprecated here. A meeting of the people of the whole county is to be held on Saturday.
TAKING TO CARBINES FOR WANT OF COLT'S REVOLVERS.-Gov. Letcher having refused to arm the Light Dragoons of Petersburg, Va., with Colt's revolvers, as was anticipated, they have determined to arm themselves with carbines. On Tuesday, four of the officers of the company waited upon the citizens to aid them in the purchase, and in lets than two hours secured the sum of $1,450. The purchase will require some $1,600. 
WIDE-AWAKES AND THE INAUGURATION OF MR. LINCOLN.-The Union Wide-Awakes of New York city are making arrangements to attend the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln. Entirely new equipments have been ordered, and a steamer will be chartered for the trip, for the purpose of affording the members and invited guests board and lodging during their stay in the federal city. The company numbers 200 men. 
A Bell-Everett man, of Uniontown, Ala., has been flogged, for declaring that in case of disunion, he would shoulder his musket, go North, and fight against the South. 
Judge Field, of Charlottesville, Va., has written a letter sharply rebuking the Richmond Enquirer for its advocacy of dissolution. He says that if eastern Virginia were to take that ground, the whole western part of the State, to a man, would be for leaving it. ’But in truth, nine-tenths of eastern Virginia, too, are opposed to it.'
George D. Prentice, in the Louisville Journal, says: ‘Missouri, and Tennessee, and Kentucky, and Virginia, and Maryland deprecate the dissolution of the Union; but South Carolina, and Florida, and Georgia swear that the Union shall be dissolved, on account of the escape of Missouri's, Tennessee's, Kentucky's, Virginia's and Maryland's slaves! What disinterested creatures South Carolina, Florida, and Georgia must be.' 
A Southern paper says that 'there is not bacon and corn enough in the Gulf States to feed our people until the 1st of March. We have to buy from Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, and other Northern States, or starve!' That looks like disunion! 
Those who have read Mr. Webster's great speech in reply to Hayne, cannot fail to remember the picture which he drew of South Carolina resisting the tariff laws-the State militia marshalled under their gallant leader, with the nullifying act raised on his standard-the march to the Custom House in Charleston,
‘All the while,
Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds'-
the demand upon the Collector-the trumpeter holding his breath, and the military array halting to hear the United States law expounded-and their dismay when informed that their act was treason. We must let Mr. Webster tell the rest of the story, thus:—
'How, then, they would ask, do you propose to defend us? We are not afraid of bullets, but treason has a way of taking people off, that we do not much relish. How do you propose to defend us? "Look at my floating banner," he would reply; "see there the nullifying law!" Is it your opinion, gallant commander, they would then say, that if we should be indicted for treason, that same floating banner of yours would make a good plea in bar? "South Carolina is a sovereign State," he would reply. That is true-but would the judge admit our plea? "These tariff laws," he would repeat, "are unconstitutional, palpably, deliberately, dangerously." That all may be so; but if the tribunal should not happen to be of that opinion, shall we swing for it? We are ready to die for our country, but it is rather an awkward business, this dying without touching the ground! After all, this is a sort of hemp tax, worse than any part of the tariff.'
Very much so, we apprehend, would Secession turn out. The fire-eaters, before coming to that point, would begin to discover that this dying without touching the ground is an awkward business, indeed, and would not feel like trying it.
A TROY JOURNEYMAN PRINTER DRIVEN OUT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.-A young man named Pasco, wellknown in Troy as a former employe in the office of the Family Journal, and a leading officer of the Printers' Association, a few days since left this city, and went to South Carolina, where he had been offered a situation in the office of the Charleston Mercury. When he reached there, he found it would be some days before the work promised him would be ready, and he was advised to go out to a neighboring village, where a printer was wanted, and where he could be employed meanwhile. This he started to do, on foot. On the way he met two men in a buggy, and inquired of them the route. They asked him whether he was a stranger, where he came from, and what was his employment. He told them he was a printer from New York, and in the course of his remarks happened to mention that he had once worked on the Tribune. The men asked him to get in and ride with them, and took him before a Justice near at hand, by whom he was ordered to be locked up in a filthy cell as an ‘Abolition emissary.' After remaining in durance 48 hours, during which time he was subjected to the most cruel treatment, he was brought out for trial. His friends from the Mercury office, who were present, represented the fact that he was not an Abolitionist, and they would be responsible for his good behavior. They were allowed to take him on condition that he should leave the State in 24 hours, otherwise he was to be publicly flogged, and locked up and fed on bread and water for thirty days. Pasco had not said one word on the subject of slavery, or on politics in any form. His only offence was that he had been a New York printer, and had worked on the New York Tribune.-Troy Times. 
AN ABOLITIONIST HUNG IN ALABAMA.-The Montgomery (Ala.) Mail of the 2d, says:-
'A man by the name of Palmer, a daguerrean artist, has been detected at Opelika, Ala., tampering with the slaves of John Smith (T) and others, between Opelika and Auburn. He gave several negroes bowie-knives, and otherwise attempted to instil into their minds seditious acts. He was detected, pursued and apprehended, and the proof being positive, he is to be hung at Auburn to-day.'
BRUTAL TREATMENT OF A LINCOLN VOTER.-The Alexandria Gazette says that on Wednesday last, at Fairfax Courthouse, Va., a man named Gartrel, who had voted for Lincoln, was seized by a party while he was coming out of the court-house, and carried a short distance from the village, where he was blacked completely with printer's ink, mounted on his horse, and started for his house in as uncomfortable a situation as one would wish to be in. 
AUGUSTA, (Ga.) Nov. 9. A Northern homoeopathic doctor residing here, named Thayer, having been charged with uttering abolition sentiments, was waited upon by a crowd this afternoon, and ordered to leave the city. Upon his refusing, the crowd were about proceeding to violence, when some citizens present managed to get him to the rear of the hotel, where they let him escape. It is presumed that he is safely out of the State. 
SHABBY TREATMENT OF SENATOR DOUGLAS IN ALABAMA.-The Southern Democracy vouches for the truth of the following story:—
A gentleman, and a member of the Breckinridge party, informs us that he was present when Judge Douglas arrived in Montgomery from Columbus, on the night of the 1st of November. This gentleman says (whose statement has been corroborated by half a dozen eye-witnesses,) that when Judge Douglas alighted from the carriage to ascend the steps of the Exchange Hotel, Montgomery, there were three rotten eggs thrown. The first egg struck Colonel Selbies, editor of the Confederation, the second egg struck Colonel Elmore, and the third egg struck the hat of Judge Douglas, bursted and discharged its contents in the face of his wife, who stood immediately on his left. These are the facts as detailed to us by several gentlemen who witnessed the disgusting affair. So much for Breckinridge intolerance.' 
The London Times has an editorial review of the tour of the Prince of Wales in this country, from which we extract the following:-'The only really unpleasant incident which has occurred during the tour, was the conduct of the mob at Richmond, the capital of Virginia. The truth is, Richmond is a place which the Prince should never have been taken to visit. If there be a place justly odious to the feelings of Englishmen and their Sovereign, it is that mart where the human animal, which is now almost the only produce of Virginia, is ruthlessly sold for consumption in the dreary plantations of the South. From such a spot, every humane and intelligent traveller turns aside with invincible repugnance, and we can hardly regret that those who were so ill-advised as to turn aside from their path to come in contact with this abomination, should have had a specimen of the quality of a population that subsists on the buying and selling of human flesh.'
Senator Toombs is wearing in the streets of Columbus, Ga., a blue cockade, (badge of disunion,) presented to him by the ladies of Montgomery, Ala. 
<c03>
STARVATION IN KANSAS. 
TO THE AMERICAN PRESS.
I respectfully ask the press of the country to tell their readers that 30,000 people in Kansas are in want of food and clothing; that the West responds nobly in provisions; that car-loads are constantly arriving at Atchison; but that Gen. S. C. Pomeroy, at that place, is in want of cash to pay freight.
Judge Arny, who is co-operating with Gen. Pomeroy in this benevolent work, writes me as follows:-
'We have used up our means and our credit to buy sacks and pay freights!'
Gen. Pomeroy desires me to get before the country the fact that three things are needed: 1st. Cash; 2d. Ready-made boots and shoes, particularly for women and children; 3d. Cotton cloth for meal-sacks, and also cloths of all kinds fit to be made into garments. 
I caution the benevolent to send no second-hand garments; the freights make them cost more than they are worth. 
Cash may be sent in drafts to Atchison, to order of Gen. Pomeroy; but I advise the sending of no bank notes. Small amounts had better be sent here to Hon. S. E. Sewall, Amos A. Lawrence, Dr. S. G. Howe, or William Claflin. These gentlemen are well known to the country. The friends of Kansas need feel no concern now as to their contributions going direct to the suffering. We have taken the precaution to have Kansas organized by township committees, and these appointed by the people themselves, without the aid of pretentious 'Mass Conventions,' ‘Central State Committees,' wire-pulling demagogues, and spoilsmen generally.
I am spending, and am willing to spend my own money in getting the condition of Kansas before the country; but I prefer to have no contributions sent to me. Let them be sent as above indicated. 
THADDEUS HYATT. 
P. S. It is proper, however, that I should publicly acknowledge the receipt of $100, sent me by that ever faithful friend of man,—Gerrit Smith. It was very opportunely sent, too, as my friend Pomeroy, under date of October 26th, writes: 'I made a draft on you for $100. I could not get the corn and potatoes without it.'
Persons who desire a more full knowledge of the condition of Kansas, can find the facts in my pamphlet letter, addressed to President Buchanan, and published by Thayer & Eldridge, of Boston, at cost of printing and mailing, nine cents. T. H. 
DISTRESS IN KANSAS.-Kansas papers give wretched accounts of the prospect of a famine there, during the coming winter. Hon. S. C. Pomeroy, of Atchison, says a man went to him on the 10th, having walked twenty-six miles to get work, having left a wife and four children at home with only half a bushel of meal, and no money to get more; he could find no employment, but was given a bushel of meal, and thankfully started for home. Mrs. Pomeroy rode ten miles out, and found a Methodist local preacher with a wife and nine children, and with only a bushel of meal, and no money to buy more; she found other families in the same plight, some in absolute want. Judge Elmore, in Shawnee county, has adjourned Court till the spring; he said the people are too poor to pay costs, and all judgments must be suspended, adding, ’I dread this long, dreary, despairing winter; I shall be obliged to part with the last dollar I can raise, or see those who are coming to me for help actually die.' 
The committee who have canvassed the Little Osage District report: ’There are 1,200 inhabitants, and only 1,200 bushels of old corn. There has been an entire failure of wheat, corn, gardens and grass. We are entirely destitute of seed wheat, and most of us are without winter clothing, and have no means with which to purchase.' Not less than 500,000 bushels of corn will be required to meet the demands of this winter, which at twenty cents per bushel, will cost $100,000. It will take $150,000 more to pay freight and carriage. At a recent meeting of the citizens of Leaven worth, a committee was formed to solicit help from the East, and a call for a general conference to meet at Lawrence on the 14th of November has been issued.-New York Sun. 
CLASSIFICATION OF THE THIRTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS.
THE NEW SENATE.
Total number of Senators, 63
Present members-Republicans, 24 
" " Opposition, 30 6
To be elected-Republicans, 5 
" " Opposition, 7 2
Opposition majority, 8
THE NEW HOUSE.
Present members-Republicans, 99
" " Opposition, 54
Members elect-Republicans, 9
" " Opposition, 75
Total number of Representatives, 237
Whole number of Opposition, 129
Whole number of Republicans, 108
Opposition majority, 22
ANTI-SLAVERY ADDRESSES. Messrs. Douglass and Remond, two colored gentlemen, spoke to a large audience at the Town Hall, on Monday evening, on the subject of Slavery. They treated the subject calmly and candidly; more in the light of the great principles involved, than with the personal bitterness and animosity too often evinced by their pale-faced followers. To be sure, they could not refrain from an occasional good hit at our political parties and religious organizations, but as a whole their remarks were free from rant and incendiary language, the fear of which perhaps kept many glorious Union-savers away from this meeting. Their language and manner of speaking, (if we except one silly joke,) were unexceptionable. Seldom have we heard a more straight-forward, forcible argument than that of Mr. Redmond; or a more musical voice, or finely modulated expressions than those given by Mr. Douglass. Yet, by a decision of the highest tribunal in the country, these men have no more right in common with other human beings than the horses in our streets. Verily, the barbarism of slavery is great.-St. Johnsbury Caledonian. 
A COLORED EXODUS FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.-The Philadelphia North American says: 'Within the past thirty days, an extensive emigration of free colored people has set in from Charleston to Philadelphia. A recent law of South Carolina, compelling the use of a distinctive badge by all free colored people, has proved highly obnoxious to a great many of this class. The result is, that they have sacrificed their property, and forever turned their backs upon the South. The number of colored Charlestonians removed here within a month past is from sixty to seventy-five families; while we understand that perhaps a still greater number have gone to New York and other places. The new comers are principally settled in Rodman, Fitzwater and South streets. For the most part, they are quadroons and mulattoes, bred to industrial calling, and first class people of their kind. The colored people of the city have extended to them a liberal hospitality and a hearty welcome. We yesterday held a conversation with one of the emigrants, a very intelligent blacksmith, who, for the first time in his life, stands upon free territory. Though dreading the coming winter, with its biting frosts-of which as yet he knows nothing by experience-he declares his intention of remaining here henceforth, and of setting up in his own business. At present, everything is strange to him, and the ways of the people very different from those of his associates in Charleston.' 
HON. CHARLES SUMNER ON THE ELECTION.-Charles Sumner lectured in Concord on Wednesday evening, and at the conclusion of the lecture, was waited upon at the residence of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Esq., by the Wide Awakes of the town, with a drum corps. Hon. John S. Keyes addressed him in behalf of the Wide Awakes, and he responded. He congratulated them on the victory just won, which involved higher principles than any ever fought for with the cartridge box, and which, like the revolutionary guns at Concord, will reverberate round the world. The principle points established by the victory were, that freedom is national and slavery sectional; that the Territories shall be free; that the old policy of our Government shall be adopted; and that the slave trade shall be put down. A collation was then provided for the company by Mr. Emerson. 
A HIGHER LAW DECLARATION.-We have quoted (says the Boston Journal) copiously from the anti-slavery record of those Whigs of Massachusetts who are now in close affiliation with the slavery propagandists of the Breckinridge Democracy. That they assumed their former stand from a high moral sense of duty is apparent from such declarations as the following, which we copy from a speech made by Robert C. Winthrop in the House of Representatives, May 8th, 1850:—
'I recognize, indeed, a power above all human lawmakers, a code above all earthly constitutions. And whenever I perceive a plain conflict of jurisdiction and authority between the constitution of my country and the laws of my God, my course is clear. I shall resign my office, whatever it may be, and renounce all connection with public service of any sort.
<c04>
Never, never, sir, will I put myself under the necessity of calling upon God to witness my promise to support a constitution, any part of which I consider to be inconsistent with His commands.'
CHICAGO, Nov. 12. Fugitive Slave Case in Illinois. A negro woman named Eliza, who escaped from Nebraska, was arrested to-night by the United States Marshal, and claimed as the slave of Stephen S. Kunckles. of Nebraska. The Marshal was stopped by a mob of excited negroes, and compelled to give the woman in charge of the city police for safe keeping. An effort will be made to-morrow to take her to Springfield for examination. The streets are crowded with negroes and some whites, who declare their intention to prevent the woman from being taken from the city. 
[We are happy to announce that the woman has since been rescued by the populace.] 
THE’NEGRO ACT’ IN MARYLAND.-The Baltimore American of Friday says: ‘In all the counties in Maryland from which we have received returns in which the act for the enslavement of free negroes was submitted to the people, the voters have emphatically and signally denounced that unjust and unchristian law. The question has been met and decided without any reference to party politics, and the law is defeated by majorities amounting almost to unanimity. The result is greatly creditable to the counties in which the vote was taken, and honorable to the State at large.' 
THE VOTE FOR GOVERNOR.-John A. Andrew received a vote which considerably exceeds 100,000! It is much the largest vote ever given for a Governor in Massachusetts, being greater than that cast for Gov. Gardner, four years ago, by several thousands. This result is an emphatic personal triumph, and, when we consider the influences brought to bear to defeat Mr. Andrew, is particularly gratifying. He has been assailed as no other man of admitted purity of character ever was assailed in an election. His speeches have been garbled, his language has been perverted, the most unblushing falsehoods have been shamelessly reiterated against him,-the lowest and meanest prejudices have been invoked to prejudice the public mind. Yet in the face of all this unscrupulous and vindictive denunciation, he has succeeded by a majority which is unprecedented, and falls below Lincoln by a vote so insignificant as to astonish his most ardent and hopeful friends.-Dedham Gazette. 
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE. Mr. Andrew, when installed as Governor, will have a strong force at his back. The new Senate is Republican, 32 to 2; and the House is Republican, 226 to 14. 
THE VOTE OF MASSACHUSETTS. In all the towns of the Commonwealth, except Sudbury and Weston, Andrew has 102,849; Lawrence, 23,462; Beach, 31,558; Butler, 5,997. Andrew's majority, 41,832.
The vote for President was as follows:-Lincoln, 106,486; Bell, 22,641; Douglas, 34,703; Breckinridge, 6,728. Lincoln's clear majority, 42,414. 
ELI THAYER.-One of the most gratifying features of the State election is the extinction of this political mountebank. We have never doubted that this would be accomplished, but the Worcester people have done it up so completely, thoroughly, and well, that they are entitled to the special gratitude of their brethren elsewhere in the State.-Dedham Gazette. 
MR. B. F. BUTLER.-Mr. B. F. Butler did poorly in Lowell, where he lives, getting only 159 votes out of 4,372, which, says the New Bedford Mercury, is one of the promptest re-payments of a Democratic debt yet made, for work not wanted at the Charleston Convention. 
At Occoquan, Prince William County, Virginia, where a few months ago some hot-headed fellows cut down a Republican flagstaff, Lincoln received 55 votes on Tuesday. Bell 48, Breckinridge 51, and Douglas 1. Well done for Ocoquan! 
One of the young lady pupils of the Mount Holyoke seminary, visiting Springfield, Tuesday, communicated the following presidential vote of that institution, thinking perhaps it might have a bearing upon the general election result: Whole number of votes, 288; Lincoln 240, Douglas 30, Breckinridge 10, Bell 4, 'Don't care a snap' 4. 
A CENTENARIAN AT THE POLLS.-The venerable Ebenezer Mower, who completed his one hundredth year on the tenth day of October last, and has voted at every presidential election, commencing with a vote for George Washington in 1789, went to the polls on Tuesday last, and voted for Abraham Lincoln.-Worcester Spy. 
PERSONAL.-Dr. Lyman Beecher, who cast his first vote for Washington, was taken by his son on Tuesday to the polls, that he might cast his last vote for Lincoln. As the venerable man, with flowing and silvery locks, entered the room, the crowd parted right and left, and silently made way for him. 
VENERABLE VOTERS.-The oldest man that we heard of at the polls, Tuesday, was Mr. Benjamin Talbot, now 94 years old. He voted in the Fifth Ward, and gave his suffrage to Abraham Lincoln. William F. Greene, 92 years of age, also voted in the same Ward for the Republican candidate.-Providence Journal. 
Ralph Farnham voted the Republican ticket in Acton, Me., on Tuesday. He is probably the oldest person in the country who visited the polls on that day, being 104. 
In Norton, Mass., Mr. David Makepeace, now in his ninety-fourth year, who voted for Washington and at every Presidential election since Washington, was present at the polls, and voted the entire Republican ticket for President, State officers, &c. He is the oldest man in town, nearly six feet tall, and walks as erect as when in the prime of life. He is quite hale and hearty, and bids fair to see yet another election of an ‘honest' President. 
Mr. William Emery, of Poland, Me., 93 years of age, went through the mud and rain between four and five miles to vote for Lincoln and Hamlin. He has voted at every Presidential election since the government was organized, commencing by throwing a vote for Washington, and devoting Tuesday to throwing a vote for ’Old Abe.'
Thomas Harmon, of Portland, 86 years of age, walked 23 miles for the purpose of voting for Abraham Lincoln.
In Ward 3, Lynn, Micajah Burrill, aged 96, who voted for Washington, voted on Tuesday for Lincoln and Hamlin.
Three free men of color were arrested in New Orleans, a few days since, charged with having-come into the State on the steamboat Isaac Newton.
The Wisconsin State Journal publishes a supplement of fourteen large newspaper pages of fine type, being a list of the forfeited lands in that State for non-payment of taxes.
The census of Baltimore shows a population of 214,037, of which 2,313 are slaves. The number of dwellings is 38,151. There are 1,146 manufactories, producing $500 and upwards. The increase of population in the last ten years is 44,913, while between the years 1840 and 1850 it was 66,741, a difference of 22,758.
SEVENTY LIVES LOST.-About the middle of last month, a terrible accident occurred on the Lake of Garda, Italy, by the explosion of a boiler. Seventy persons lost their lives. Only the captain and two or three of the crew were saved. The whole family of Count Guerrieri, Verona, comprising eight persons, were lost; and the family of Count Avaighi, of Salo, suffered the same fate. The steamer was a regular passage boat from Salo to Limone.
CREW OF THE SLAVER STORM KING. Marshal Wiley, attended by Mr. Henry Myers, arrived in Richmond, from Norfolk, on Saturday, having in custody the crew of the slaver Storm King, eleven in number. The prisoners were placed in the county jail to await trial before the U. S. Court.
Adams & Co.'s Express brought to New York, on Monday, a mother and two children, from Mobile, Alabama, consigned to Rev. Mr. Brooks, of Newport, Rhode Island. They had been emancipated by their mistress.
CLEARANCE OF AN ALLEGED SLAVER.-The bark Romulus recently arrived in Cold Spring harbor, where, it is alleged, she fitted for sea in an unusual manner; her lower hold being filled with casks of water. She was also visited at night by steam tugs from this city, which delivered articles or passengers on board. On Wednesday night, she hauled into the sound, when a steam tug took her in tow, and she proceeded to sea. From the suspicious manner in which the cargo was taken on board, and other circumstances, it is supposed that the vessel is intended for the slave trade.-New York Commercial Advertiser.
The Aroostook (Me.) Herald states that Rev. L. Morse, a Methodist minister, having been detected in an intrigue with a married woman, fled the town to escape arrest. He was burned in effigy on the 5th ult.
A new style of street car has been introduced into Pittsburg, which is to be propelled by compressed air, and can run with more than ordinary speed, with 600 pounds of air. 
<c05>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH 
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary.
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to he re-planted the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress.
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready.
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country-new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise.
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without. 
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time-the peaceful extinction of American Slavery.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY, 
LOUISA LORING,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, 
SUSAN C. CABOT, 
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW, 
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
SARAH P. REMOND,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, 
EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM, 
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH, 
ANNE LANGDON ALGER, 
MARY E. STEARNS. 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
Collections by H. Ford Douglass. 
Massachusetts.-At Springfield, $ 2 70.
New York.-Ghent, 1 75; Syracuse, 5; Port Byron, 1; Alliance, 3 35; Massillon, 10.
By C. L. Remand and H. F. Douglass. 
Vermont.-Bradford, 5; Newbury, 1 84; Mclndoes Falls, 3 54; St. Johnsbury 11 25; Ryegate, 1 10; South Ryegate, 1 97; Topsham, 3; West Brookfield, 9; Washington, 1 10; Randolph Centre, 3 16; Milford, 5. 
By E. H Heywood. 
Vermont.-Bradford, 11 80; Topsham, 1 50. 

WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY. 
The quarterly meeting of this Society will be held at West Brookfield, on Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov. 17 and 18.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., H. FORD DOUGLASS, E. H. HEYWOOD and others will be present.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President. 
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Centreville, Friday, Nov. 16. 
Hyannis, Sunday, "8.
Brewster, Tuesday, "20. 
Dennis, Wednesday, "21. 
East Dennis, Thursday, " 22. 
Harwich, Sunday, "25. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture at Cummington, Mass., the second and third Sundays-11th and 18th-of November
Also-in Willimantic, Ct., the last Sunday, or 28th day, of November. 
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in
North Oxford, Friday evening, Nov. 16.
Warren, Tuesday " " 20
Ware, Wednesday " " 21.
N. Brookfield, Thursday, " " 22. 
Chicopee, Friday, " " 23.
Springfield, Sunday afternoon and eve'g, " 25. 
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH will speak at South Danvers, Saturday evening, Dec. 1. 

LECTURE ON THE ART OF PRINTING. 
The undersigned would respectfully give notice, that he has prepared a Lecture on ’The Early History of the Art of Printing,' and would refer, by permission, to 
Hon. CHARLES W. UPHAM, Salem;
Hon. STEPHEN H. PHILLIPS,"
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston; 
Dr. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, Boston;
Rev. JAMES W. THOMPSON, D. D., Jamaica Plain.
CHARLES W. FELT, Salem, Mass., 
or at 46 Court Street, Room No. 20, Boston.
LYCEUM LECTURES.-DR. JOHN S. Rock is prepared to deliver the following lectures before Lyceums:-
1.'The Unity of the Human Races.'
1.'The Lights and Shadows of African Life.'
3.'Woman the Intellectual Equal of Man.'
Please address Dr. J. S. ROCK, 83 Southac street, Boston. 
SITUATION WANTED.
A young woman acquainted with Book-keeping, both double and single entry, desires a situation as an Amanuensis, or otherwise to do any writing or copying. Inquire of R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office. 
DIED-In Dedham, Nov. 6, LUCILLA PINCKNEY, wife of EDMUND QUINCY, and daughter of the late Daniel P. Parker, Esq., aged 50. 
<c06>
AGENTS WANTED 
TO SELL
HARRINGTON,
A HANDSOME 12mo. volume of 570 pages: Price $1 25. The most brilliant Anti-Slavery Novel yet written. 
Liberal terms will be given to Agents, and a fine opportunity is afforded for those who have no winter employment, to travel and sell this work.
Sent by mail, post-paid, on the receipt of the price. 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 9. 1w 

MPORTANT FACTS ABOUT 
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces. 
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood. 
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases. THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured. 
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER, 
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
Oct. 26. 6w.

PORTRAIT OF
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very highest style of the lithographic art, and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH.
C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street, Boston. 
The Boston Transcript says:-
'The crayon portrait of Mr. Wendell Phillips, drawn by Thomas M. Johnston for C. H. Brainard, is now on exhibition at the store of Elliot & White, 322 Washington street. Many portraits of Mr. P. have already been presented to the public, but they have all been wanting in force of expression and delineation of character. Mr. Johnston has succeeded in depicting his subject in one of his best expressions, and has given the outline of his features with remarkable fidelity, and at the same time delineated his mental characteristics with much truthfulness and feeling. The picture gives great satisfaction to the friends of Mr. Phillips, and must be regarded as the most successful portrait for which he has ever sat. It is to be lithographed by Fabronius, and published by Mr. Brainard.' 
We endorse this testimonial, and trust Mr. Brainard will have many applications for a portrait so spirited, life-like, and finely executed.-[ED. LIB. 

Historical Pictures Retouched. 
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of ‘Woman’s Right to Labor.' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on ‘Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1.
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'-Norfolk County Journal. 
'By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.'-Bangor Whig.
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'-Portland Transcript.
Published by
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY, 
245 Washington street, Boston. 
Oct. 26. 3t 

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round' 
JOHN II. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept 16 tf 
DR. E. A. KITTREDGE
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fair mount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street.
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12. 
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. 
A. J. DAVIS & CO., 
Oct. 5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York. 
WEIS & ZOEBISCH, 
Manufacturers of and Dealers in 
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS, 
184 WASHINGTON STREET. 184
CORNER OF FRANKLIN Sr., BOSTON.
E. ZOEBISCH will pay particular attention to Altering and Repairing old Furs.
FACTORY, 6 CENTRAL STREET.
184 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 16.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FRATERNITY LECTURE, 
AT THE TREMONT TEMPLE, Nov. 7. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS UPON THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: If the telegraph speaks truth, for the first time in our history, the slaves has chosen as President of the United Slates. (Cheers.), We have passed the Rubicon, for Mr. Lincoln rules to-day as much as he will after the 4th of March., It is the moral effect of this victory, not anything. which his administration can or will probably do, that gives value to this success. Not an Abolitionist, hardly an anti-slavery man, Mr. Lincoln consents to represent an anti-slavery idea. A pawn on the political chessboard, his value is in his position; with fair effort, we may soon change him for Knight, Bishop or Queen, and sweep the board. (Applause.) This position he owes to no merit of his own, but to lives that have roused the nation's conscience, and deeds that have ploughed deep into its heart. Our children eyes gazed with wonder at Maelzel's chess player, and the pulse almost stopped when, with the pulling of wires and creaking of wheels, he moved a pawn and said, Check!' Our wiser fathers saw a man in the box. There was great noise at Chicago, much pulling of wires and creaking of wheels, then forth steps Abraham Lincoln. But John Brown was’ was behind the curtain, and the cannon of March 4th will only echo the rifles at Harper's Ferry. Last year, we stood looking sadly at that gibbet against the Virginia sky. One turn of the kaleidoscope it is Lincoln in the balcony of the Capitol, and a million of hearts beating welcome below. (Cheers.) 
Mr. Seward said, in 1850:-You may slay the Wilmot Proviso in the Senate Chamber, and bury it beneath the Capitol to-day; the dead course, in complete steel, will haunt your legislative halls to-morrow.' They slew the martyr-chief on the banks of the Potomac; we buried his dust beneath the snows of North Elba; and the statesman Senator of New York wrote for his epitaph, Justly hung,' while party chiefs cried 'Amen!' but one of those dead hands smote to ruin the Babylon which that Senator's ambition had builder, and the other lifts into the Capitol the President of 1861. (Applause.) 
The battle has been a curious one, mixed and tossed in endless confusion. The combatants, in the chaos, caught up often the weapons of their opponents, and dealt the deadliest blows at their own ranks. 
The Democratic party, agitating fiercely to put down agitation, break at last into a general quarrel in their effort to keep the peace! (Laughter.) They remind one of that sleepy crier of a New Hampshire court, who was ever dreaming, in his dog-naps, that the voice of judge or lawyer was a noisy interruption, and always woke shouting, ’Silence! Judge Livermore said once, ‘Mr. Crier, you are the noisiest man in court, with your everlasting shout of' Silence'! (Laughter.) The Abolitionists ought to be very sorry to lose Mr. Douglas from the national arena. (Applause.)
But the Bell-Everett party have been the comfort of the canvas the sweet oil the safety-valve the locomotive buffer, which, when collision threatened, broke the blow, and the storm exploded in a laugh. (Great merriment.) They played Sancho Panza to Douglas's Don Quixote. (Renewed laughter.) We can afford to thank them. It is but fair, however, to confess that they differ from that illustrious Spaniard. His chief anxiety was about his dinner’ their distress rose higher than loaves and fishes— they trembled for our glorious Union. (Laughter.) The passions of men were all on fire the volcano in full activity. They confessed they did not know what to do; but they determined not to do they knew not what. Theirs was the stand-still policy, the cautious status quo of the old law.
Now, Whately says there are two ways of being burned. The rash moth hurries into the flame, and is gone. The cautious, conservative horse, when his stable is on fire, stands stock still, and is burnt up all the same. The Everett party chose the horse policy when their stable took fire. (Applause.) Don't you hear the horse's address ? In this stall my father stood in 1789. Methinks I hear his farewell neigh. How agitated the crowds seem outside there! I'll have no platform but that my father had in 89'and so he dies. Yet the noble animal risked only his own harm. His mistakes drag none else to ruin. Four millions of human beings beheld their fate hanging on this do-nothing, keep-silent, let-evil-alone party. Then their appeals to us to keep silent, to cease criticizing chains and slave-auctions, hangings and burnings of men for free speech; their kindly assurances that if we would only be still, no harm would come the whole trouble was our noise; they implored us not to cherish this dislike to these constitutional and necessary measures! Like the viper-peddler in Spain, who exhibited his stock to the inn guests all the evening, descanting on their life and vigor, and when at night, in the utter dark, one traveller felt something cold crawling on his face, cried out:-It is only my vipers, they are all loose; but if you'll only lie perfectly still and quiet, they won't hurt you the least.' (Applause.) 
But Republicanism has triumphed. (Loud applause.) The Democrat may forget his quarrels, and prepare to die with decency. For the Bell Everett party, one egg has given a chicken. Mr. Appleton is elected. Beacon street and Ann street have fused. (Merriment.) As his constituents could not be admitted to Mr. Appleton's house there not being police enough to watch them, (great merriment) the speeches were made outside, and we got all the secrets. Mr. Stevenson thinks the election of Mr. Appleton the most important that has taken place since the adoption of the Constitution.' I observed, last summer, in the country, that the geese always bowed when they entered a barn, for fear of hitting their heads. (Laughter.) Mr. Burlingame needs no praise of mine. He stood like Hancock and Adams, the representative of an idea, and the city that rejected him disgraced only herself. (Applause.) As an old English Judge said of a sentence he blushed to declare, In this I seem to pronounce sentence not on the prisoner, but on the law itself.' It is Boston, not Burlingame, that has cause to blush to-day. (Cheers.) I do not envy Mr. Appleton his seat. You remember Webster painted Washington leaning one great arm on Massachusetts, and the other on South Carolina. Methinks I see our merchant prince entering Congress. One hand rests familiarly on the shoulder of Beacon street, the other on a cambric handkerchief, twice doubled, to save the possibility of his touching the shoulder of Ann street. (Laughter and applause.) What is his first act when seated he, the representative of the fag ends of half a dozen parties,-the broken meat of the political charity basket? He speak the voice of Boston, the home of Sam Adams, in this glorious hour What will it be? When Sherman is named for Speaker, he says' No,' while the heart of Boston says' Yes.” And what is his second and last act? To gather round his table Davis and Mason men who gloried in the blow which exiled Sumner from the Senate for four years, and made Christendom tremble for its life men who come for his wine, and not for his wit and Boston, in his person, sinks to be their associate no, their lackey. I affirm, he does not represent Boston. (Cheers.) Look at its Lincoln vote! I appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober from Ann street cozened by old fogies, to Ann street under guidance of her native instincts. (Loud applause.) Mr. Appleton represents neither the merchants of Boston nor its grog-shops though his friends boast of having carried him by their aid. They are both too good for him.
But the Bell-Everett party cannot say with Francis I. at Paris, when he addressed the first lady by position in the State, Madam, we have lost all but honor,' since the soreness of expected defeat, led 
<c02>
them to insult an invited guest, a lady, and that lady, like the mother of Francis, the first by position in the State. (Loud applause.) Of the first Governor of Massachusetts, (unless we count Endicott, and then call Winthrop our second Governor,) the last historian writes:-The qualities that denote the gentleman were eminently his. Cordial and ready to every expression of respect and courtesy, he gave all their due, whether in great or little things.' Good and bad qualities, they tell us, are inherited pass down with the blood. To be sure, now and then they lie latent for one generation. Can ours be the generation of eclipse? It must be so, for surely the ignorance of good manners which offers an insult is trivial, compared with the silence of those who know better than their lackeys, are as responsible for the act, and refuse acknowledgment or protest. [Applause.] 
Well, the battle is ended. What have we gained? Let us, ladies and gentlemen, who care nothing for men or for offices, whose only interest is justice and the great future of the republic, look round and weigh the spoils. 
Everybody speculates, the pulpit affirms, the merchant guesses, and the oracular press lays down the law. Why should not the Lyceum be in the fashion? To begin, then, at home. For the first time within my memory, we have got a man for Governor of Massachusetts, a frank, true, whole-souled, honest MAN. (Cheering.) That gain, alone, is worth in all the labor. But the office is not the most important in the Commonwealth; only now and then it becomes commanding; in a sad Burns week, for instance, when Mr. Washburn was masquerading as Governor, and when, as Emerson said, if we had a man and not a cockade in the chair, something might be done;' or later, when the present Chief Magistrate pushed Judge Loring, on false pretences, from his stool. Such occasions remind us we have a Governor. But in common times, the Chief Justiceships is far more commanding is the real Gibraltar of our State contests. John A. Andrew should have been Chief Justice. (Applause.) You remember they made the first William Pitt Earl of Chatham, and he went into eclipse in the House of Lords. Some one asked Chesterfield what had become of Pitt. He has had a fall up stairs,' was the answer. Governor Andrew or Judge Andrew sounds equally well But I like, the right man in the right place. The Chief Justice ship belongs to the party of progress. Their Sparta, can point to many sons worthy of the place Sewall, Hoar, Dana, or we might have offered another laurel, for the brow of our great Senator, were it only to show him that the profession he once honored still remembers her truant son. (Great applause.) The outgoing administration which entailed that office on talents, however respectable, that belong to the party of resistance, placed itself by the side of Arnold selling West Point to the British. Such an appointment was the Parthian arrow of a traitor and a snob. 
Then we have LINCOLN for President, (applause) a Whig a revolutionary Whig a freedom-loving Whig a Whig in the sense that Jefferson, Hamilton and Washington were Whigs. How much is that, worth? I said we had passed the Rubicon. Caesar crossed the Rubicon, borne in the arms of a people trodden into poverty and chains by an oligarchy of slaveholders, but that oligarchy proved too strong even’ for Caesar and his legions. Judged by its immediate success, Caesar's life was a failure as much as John Brown's; the Empire rotted into the grave which slavery digs for all its victims. What better right have we to hope? Let us examine. The Republican, party says now what Mr. Sumner said in 1852, that it' knows no better aim, under the Constitution, than to bring back the government' to where it stood in 1789. That is done. The echo of cannon from ocean shore to the Rocky Mountains proclaims it accomplished. 
How much is such success worth? I suppose you will not claim that Mr. Lincoln is better than Washington. As only Abolition telescopes have dared to discover any spots on that sun, certainly while Mr. Everett lives and the Ledger is printed, no one will presume to say there can be a better President than Washington. Indeed, Mr. Seward asks in great contempt of any man who undertakes to improve the Constitution,’ Are you more just than Washington, wiser than Hamilton, more humane than Jefferson? Well, then, Washington, pursuing the very policy which Mr. Lincoln proposes to follow, launched the ship of State on seas white with the fervor of the revolutionary love of liberty, and made shipwreck. Every administration grew worse than its predecessor, and at last slavery, having wound its slimy way to the top of the Capitol, 
‘Stands hissing at the nobler man below.' 
The whole argument of the canvas has been, that the experiment of self-government under this Constitution, began by the best of men, has been a failure. The country is wrecked; take us for pilots, or you are lost' has been the cry of the Republicans. Mr. Sumner has drawn the sad picture so well and so often that I need not attempt it. Our Presidents tools of the Slave Power our army used to force slavery on our own Territories and neighbor nations free speech punished with death in one half the Union, and met with insult and starvation in the other the slave-trade re-opened and our most distinguished scholar telegraphing apologies when his son aids at school beside a colored boy, and explaining his own indiscreet freedom of speech as the sad result of anodynes (applause) surely Mr. Seward, seeing all this, was right in confessing, at Rochester, in 1858,’ thus far, our course has not been according to the humane hopes and expectations of our fathers.' And, in 1860,' Not over the face of the whole world is there to be found one Representative of our country who is not an apologist of the extension of slavery.' And again, in Kansas, a month ago-Our fathers thought slavery would cease before now; but the people became demoralized; the war went back, back, BACK, until 1854, until all guaranties of freedom in every part of the United States were abandoned, and the flag of the United States was made the harbinger, not of Freedom, but of Human Bondage.
At Rochester, he went on to paint the picture of our national wreck so darkly, that his own feelings led him, in conclusion, to declare that if the final battle goes against him, he will leave America, shake the dust off his feet, and find a more congenial home; for where liberty dwells, there is my country.”
But Mr. Seward closes that speech in hope grounded on this, that the Republican party has arisen.’ It is a party of one idea; an idea that fills and expands all generous souls; the idea of equality the equality of all men before human tribunals, as they are all equal before the divine tribunal and laws.' 
That is his rainbow of hope. It is a noble idea equality before the law a mark which an old Greek declared, two thousand years ago, distinguished freedom from barbarism. Mark it, and let us question Mr. Lincoln about it.
Do you believe, Mr. Abraham Lincoln, that the negro is your political and social equal, or ought to be? Not a bit of it.
Do you believe he should sit on juries? Never. 
Do you think he should vote? Certainly not. 
Should he be considered a citizen? I tell you frankly, no.
Do you think that when the Declaration of Independence says' All men are created equal,' it intends the political equality of blacks and whites? No, sir. 
If this' idea that fills all generous minds' be equality, surely Mr. Lincoln's mind is as yet empty, If this is the only hope of our being able to achieve what our fathers failed to do mount those Arab horses, Mr. Seward, and fly to the desert! But you can't fly with me, as the song goes; first, because, if we are defeated, I mean to die in the last ditch (applause); and secondly, notwithstanding the emptiness of Mr. Lincoln's mind, I think we shall yet suc-
<c03>
ceed in making this a decent land to live in. (Cheers.) May I tell yon why? Place yourselves at the door of the Chicago Convention. Do you see Mr. Lincoln? He believes a negro may walk where he wishes, eat what he earns, read what he can, and associate with any other who is exactly of the same shade of black he is. That is all he can grant. Well, on the other side is Mr. Seward. He believes the negro should sit on juries, vote, be eligible to office that's all. So much he thinks he can grant without hurting the Union. 
Now raise your eyes up! In the blue sky above, you will see Mr. Garrison and John Brown! (Prolonged cheering.) They believe the negro has the same right to fight that a white man has the same claim on us to fight for him; and as for the consequences to the Union, who cares? Liberty first, and the Union afterwards, is their motto. (Cheers.) Liberty first, and, as the Scotch say, ' Let them care who come a hind.' 
That Convention selected Lincoln for their standard bearer. Enough gain for once. First the blade, then the ear, then the full corn in the ear.' (Loud cheers.) Dr. Win ship began with a dumb-bell of ten pounds; after four years, he raises two hundred and fifty in each hand. The elephants, when crossing a river, send the smallest first. Don't mount those Arab steeds yet, Mr. Seward Wait a little longer.” Who knows whether that Liberator, whose printing office Mayor Otis could not find in 1835, may not be issued from the eastern room of the White House, in 1873, and Mr. Seward himself, instead of saying that John Brown was’ justly hung,' may dare then to declaim, as Chas. O'Connor does now, in the Supreme Court at Albany,-
A man who knows that the law under which he lives violates the first principles of natural justice, is bound to strive, by all honorable means, to break down and defeat that law. Among these honorable means is the right of armed resistance the sacred right of revolution. This is the higher law which sanctified the revolt of George Washington against the constituted authorities then existing in this country. The laurel wreath of victory <illegible>rounds the name of Washington. Ill-success, defeat, overthrow, and death, in an ignominious form, might have been his fate. Such was the fate of many who, in this respect, perhaps, were as pure and virtuous as he. We revere the name of Emmet; we revere the name of Wallace, of every virtuous man who has perished in unsuccessful attempts to achieve the independence of his country. 
And, therefore, if negro slavery be a thing so unjust and so wicked as my friends and their associates esteem it, I must admit that we cannot consistently refuse the same tribute to the recent abolition Martyr, John Brown. He fell! So have many illustrious champions of justice. He failed So did Emmett, and so did Wallace. His means were inadequate! So were theirs: the event proved it. He struggled indeed for the liberty of a distant people, who were not his kinsmen, who were not of his color, who had few claims upon his sympathy, and none upon his affections. That may be an argument against him with those who think that heroism and virtue should never be disinterested; but it has no real weight. 
We have not been in the habit of withholding our med of praise from Kosciusko, Pulaski, De Kalb, or La Fayette, all of whom fought, and two of whom perished for us. We withheld not our tribute of admiration from La Fayette when, in his old age, he visited our country. No one asserted that he should have stayed at home, instead of coming in aid of a remote and distant people, and imperiling his life for their emancipation. No! we received him as the people's guest, and the whole American nation, from one end of our Republic to the other, bowed down in heartfelt homage to his virtue. 
How can my learned friends, with their avowed principles, withhold from John Brown the tribute of their admiration, or from his deeds the sanction of their approval?'
That is the opinion of Charles O'Connor, the head of the New York Bar, the new-fledged orator of Democracy, and the counsel for Virginia in the Lemmon case. 
I expect to live to hear that sentence quoted in 1872, under the very Dome of the Capitol, by some Senator anxious for a Presidential nomination (Applause.) Do you doubt it? Why, it is not impossible that Virginia herself, clothed and in her right mind, may yet beg of New York the dust of John Brown for some mausoleum at Richmond, as repentant Florence, robed in sackcloth, begged of Ravenna the dust of that outlawed Dante, whom a century before she ordered to be burned alive. (Great cheering.) You think me a fanatic, perhaps? Well, I have been thought so once or twice before. (Laughter.) May I tell you the reason of the faith that is in me? It does not hang on President Lincoln or any other President. Certainly not while he is checkmated by both House and Senate. I think little of the direct influence of Governments. I think, with Guizot, that it is a gross delusion to believe in the sovereign power of political machinery.' To hear some men talk of the Government, you would suppose that Congress was the law of gravitation, and kept the planets in their places. Mr. Webster sneered at the Anti-Slavery and kindred movements as-a-dub agitations.' Judge Story plumes himself on our Government abolishing the slave trade in 1808, as if in that it was not the servant of Clarkson and Wilberforce, Benezet and Woolman!
I never take up a paper full of Congress squabbles, reported as if sunrise depended upon them, without thinking of that idle English nobleman at Florence, whose brother, coming to him from London, happening to mention the House of Commons, he languidly asked, ’Ah! is that thing going still?' (Great merriment) Did you ever see on Broadway you may in Naples a black figure grinding chocolate in the windows? He seems to turn the wheel, but in truth, the wheel turns him. (Laughter.) Now, such is the President of the United States. He seems to govern, he only reigns. As Lord Brougham said in a similar case Lincoln is in place, Garrison in power. (Applause.)’ Rub-a-dub agitation,' forsooth! as if Mr. Webster could have a Whig party, or anything else, in these reading days, without that agitation which calls into being and sustains the press, which melts and moulds the popular will and heart. What would the Tribune be without the Anti-Slavery movement? Let progressive men be mum, and the Tribune would starve. We could better do without it, than it without us. This talk of politicians about quieting agitation, and yet expecting progress, or even life, is like the present Shah of Persia, (not one of whose subjects in fifty thousand can read, and not one in a hundred thousand can write,) exclaiming, when Sir Gore Ouray told him of the large revenue from the British post-office, ’I'll have a post-office to-morrow.' (Loud applause.) You might as well have jury trials in Timbuctoo. (Laughter.) It is worse than- making bricks without straw; it is making bricks without clay.
Observe, I do not depreciate statesmanship. It requires great ability to found States and Governments, but only common talent to carry them on. It took Fulton and Watt to create the steam engine; but a very ordinary man can engineer a train from Boston to Albany. 
Some critics sneer at old histories for recording only what Government did. They should remember how much, in old times, Governments covered the whole field of human life trade, letters, religion and industry. The annals of a dynasty were then, to a great extent, the history of the times. We call for different histories, because the times have so much changed. At present, it is not cabinets, but art, science, literature, opinion, fashion and trade, that mould national character and purpose. These, the London Times confessed, a dozen years ago, were infinitely more than statutes or parties. The late canvass was worth a dozen Lincolns. The agitation was, a yeomanly service to liberty. It educated the people. One such canvass makes amends for the cowardice of our scholars, and consoles us under the infliction of Harvard College. (Laughter and applause.) Indeed, Government is only a necessary evil, like other go carts and crutches. Our need of it shows exactly how far we are still children. All governing overmuch kills the self-help and energy of the governed. Compare the last century with this, or the European with the Yankee. Every narrowing of the sphere of 
<c04>
Government proves growth in the people, and is the seed of farther growth. 
Civilization dwarfs political machinery. Without doubt, the age of Fox and Pitt was one in which the prejudices of Courts and the machinery of Cabinet had large sway. But how absurd to say even of Pitt and Fox that they shaped the fate of England. The inventions of Watt and Ark Wright set free millions of men for the ranks of Wellington; the wealth they created clothed and fed those hosts; the trade they established necessitated the war, if it was at all or ever necessary. Berlin and Milan decrees would have smothered every man in England. The very goods they manufactured, shut out from the continent, would have crowded the inhabitants off their little island. It was land monopoly that declared war with France, and trade fought the battle. Napoleon was struck down by no eloquence of the House of Commons, by no sword of Wellington. He was crushed and ground to powder in the steam engines of James Watt.
Cobden and O'Connell, out of the House of Commons, were giants; in it, dwarfs. Sir Robert Peel, the cotton spinner, was as much a power as Sir Robert Peel, the Prime Minister. We went to stare at the Lord Chancellor, not for his seals and velvet bag, but because he was Harry Brougham of the Edinburgh Review. Rowland Hill and Adam Smith Granville Sharpe and Pilgrim's Progress the London Times and the Stock Exchange outweigh a century of Cunnings and Palmerstons, Gladstones, Liverpools, and Earls of Gray. 
By the side of the New England Primer, Lyman Beecher and Benjamin Franklin, the New York Tribune and Herald, all our thirteen Presidents kick the beam. The pulpit and the steamboat are of infinitely more moment than the Constitution. The South owes the existence of slavery to-day to the cunning of a Connecticut Yankee, Eli Whitney; and Fulton did more to perpetuate the Union than a Senate Chamber of Websters. I will not say that Mr. Banks, at the head of the Illinois Railway, (if he ever gets there,) will be a more influential man than while Governor of this State, but I will say that the founders and Presidents of our railways are a much more influential body than the Senate of the Union.
Still, though I think little of political machinery, I value the success of the Republican party; not so much as an instrument, but as a milestone. It shows how far we have got. Let me explain. (Laughter.) You know that geologists tell us that away back there, before Moses, (laughter,) the earth hung a lurid mass of granite, hot, floating in thick carbonic’ acid gas for an atmosphere poison thick gas. Gradually the granite and choke-damp, as miners call it, united and made limestone; then more choke-damp was absorbed, and sandstone came; more still, and coal appeared. By this time, the air had parted with all its poison, and was pure enough to breathe. Then came man Just such has been our progress. Our Government hung a lurid, floating mass in the poisonous atmosphere of New York Observers and Heralds, Tract Societies, pro-slavery pulpits, Union meetings, Calhoun's, Everett's, Websters and Halletts, slave hunters, Curtsies. The chemical process began. They were partially absorbed. We had Whig parties, anti-Texas meetings, and Free soil factions. The change went on, and finally we have a party that dares to say slavery is a sin in some places! The air begins to grow almost pure enough to breathe. (Applause.)
‘Scientific men think that electricity did much to hasten the coming of limestone and coal, and the disappearance of poison gas. In our case, too, electricity -by which I mean the Garrison party [loud laughter and [applause ] flashing through and through and all over the lazy heavens, quickened our change also. But the growth will be a great deal quicker in time to come. [Loud applause.] One great evil of politics, one that almost outweighs the help it indirectly gives to education, is the chains it puts on able men. Those chains are much loosened now. Listen to Mr. Seward on the prairies! Notice how free and also eloquent he has been since the Chicago Convention! And this change is not due to age. You know, I am apt to say, among other impertinent things, that you can always get the truth from an American statesman after he has turned seventy, or given up all hope of the Presidency. (Applause.) I should like a law that one-third of our able men should be ineligible to that office; then every third man would tell us the truth. The last ten years of John Quincy Adams were the frankest of his life. In them, he poured out before the people the treason and the indignation which formerly he had only written in his diary. And Josiah Quincy, the venerable, God bless him, has told us more truth since he was eighty, than he ever did before. [Applause.] They tell us that until this. year, they have not been able to survey Mt. Washington; its iron centre warped the compass. Just so with our statesmen before they reach seventy, their survey of State is ever false. That great central magnet at Washington deranges all their instruments.
Let me take the speeches of Mr. Seward as an illustration of American statesmen. I take him, because he is a live man, and a worthy sample. (Applause.) I agree with the doctors' rule-medicament a non agent in cadaver ( dead bodies are no test of drugs.') But he is a fair test a real live statesman; not one of those petty politicians who hang on Agitation for what they can pick up, as I have seen birds, in summer, watch round a horse's feet for the insects his tread disturbs. No, he is a statesman.
In 1848, at Cleveland, Mr. Seward said-‘We of New York are guilty of slavery still by withholding the right of suffrage from the race we have emancipated. You of Ohio are guilty in the same way by a system of black laws still more aristocratic and odious.
It is written in the Constitution of the United States, in violation of the Divine law, that we shall, surrender the fugitive slave who takes refuge at our fireside from his relentless pursuers.”
Mark the confession! the Constitution he stands sworn to support violates the Divine law Does he advise his hearers to obey it? Oh, no! He goes on 'Extend a cordial welcome to the fugitive who lays his weary limbs at your door, and defend him as you would your paternal gods.' This is one of his methods of an effective aggression on slavery.' That sounds well. No twaddle about non-extension. No wonder Senator Mason summoned such a bloody fanatic before the Harper's Ferry Committee!
Well, in the Senate, in 1850, he declares that ‘the law of nature, written on the hearts and consciences of freemen, repudiates the fugitive slave clause;' that' we cannot be either true Christians or true freemen, if we impose on another a chain that we defy all human power to fasten on ourselves;' and he thinks it wrong to hold men in bondage, at any time, and under any circumstances.' But yet, at the same time, having counselled Ohio to resist the slave clause, and denounced it as' a compact no Christian nation would ever make,' he goes on to pledge himself to use only’ constitutional and peaceful means' to resist slavery, all about the paternal gods to the contrary notwithstanding! You need not summon him, Mr. Mason He won't do any harm! In 1860, just after Harper's Ferry, he tells the South, that if their sovereignty is assailed, within or without, no matter on what pretext, or who the foe, he will defend it as he would his own! You see, peaceful measures against slavery: guns and bayonets for it!
Do these words mean that? Oh, no! Go with me to Madison, in September, and stand before that beautiful capitol between the three lakes, and you will hear these same lips saying:-
It has been by a simple rule of interpretation I have studied the Constitution of my country. That rule has been simply this: That by no word, no act, no combination into which I might enter, should any one human being of all the generations to which I belong, much less any class of human beings of any nation, race, or kindred, be oppressed and kept down in the least degree in their efforts to rise to a higher state of liberty and happiness. Amid all the glosses of the times, amid all the essays and discussions to 
<c05>
which the Constitution of the United States has been subjected, this has been the simple, plain, broad light in which I have read every article and every section of that great instrument. Whenever it requires of me that this hand shall keep down the humblest of the human race, then I will lay down power, place, position, fame, every thing, rather than adopt such a construction or such a rule. If, therefore, in this land there are any who would rise, I say to them, in God's name, good speed! If there are in foreign lands people who would improve their condition by emigration, or if there be any here who would go abroad in search of happiness, in the improvement of their condition, or in their elevation toward a higher state of dignity and happiness, they have always had, and they always shall have, a cheering word, and such efforts as I can consistently make in their behalf.' (Cheers.) 
That is good! It sounds like Kossuth! Now, then, we understand him fully. He will never help a slaveholder, and believes all races equal. Not quite. Is he in favor of complete equality, social and all? Is the country as open to the black man as the white? Oh, no In February last, he declared that the man who said so libelled the Republican party And at St. Paul, in September, he bade them, remember this was the country of the white man and lets them understand that the Republican party opposes extension of slavery only. In 1830, he declared' this violation of the Divine Law,' which he calls' the Constitution,' this compact which no Christian State would ever make,' and no Christian man could ever obey the only just and equal government that ever existed! no other government ever could be so wise, just, free and equal! And he affirms no time or change could ever produce one more beneficent! Last Friday, in New York, he said that whoever doubts that this Constitution (this violation of the Divine Law') will' last forever, has no faith in reason, no faith in justice, no faith in truth, no faith in virtue!' If this be so, then' violations of the Divine Law' seem about as eternal as the Divine Law itself; and the Italian who prayed' Good Lord, good Devil,' was a sensible man, and was only laying a very prudent and necessary anchor to the windward! (Laughter and applause.) 
At Washington, in February, he thought John Brown' was misguided and desperate,' and' justly hung.” He talks of' social horrors' and disunion,' and irons his face out to portentous length and sadness. [Laughter.] But at Chicago, in September, John Brown, he says, was the only one man [when the Missouri Compromise was repealed] who hoped against the prevailing demoralization, and cheered and sustained me [Mr. Seward] through it'! And at St. Paul, he snaps his fingers at disunion, and, amid shouts of derisive laughter, cries out, Who's afraid?' 
They exhibited at the Crystal Palace, in 1851, a Damascus blade, so flexible that it could be placed in a sheath, coiled like a snake. Something like it seems Mr. Seward's conscience, only the blade boasted it could bend Seward, after coiling in and out, insists on our believing he never bent a whit! 
But hear him now, since the nomination at Chicago! See the lion toss his free limbs on the prairie! Standing in Kansas, with the spirit of John Brown hovering over him, his name written on every hill-top, hear the old Governor proclaim, All men shall have the ballot or none; all men shall have the bullet or none.' Crossing into Missouri, he says, the principle that, every man should own the soil he tills, and the head and hands he works with, is going through; it is bound to go through;' when a bystander said, Not here,” he retorted, Yes, here. As it has gone through eighteen States of the Union, it is bound to go through the other fifteen. It is bound to go through all of the thirty-three States of the Union, for the simple reason that it is going through the world.' [Prolonged applause.] 
That smacks of good old-fashioned John Brown, and Garrison Abolition not non-extension I know Mr. Everett will deem, such words very indiscreet. [Laughter.] I knew an old lady to whom a friend had given a nice silk umbrella. She had kept it standing in a corner twenty years, when one day her grandson seized it to go out. ’You're not going to take that out in the wet!' she exclaimed. Never while I live!' This is just like Mr. Everett's free! speech, always laid up in cotton !! [Laughter and applause.] 
They say, if you stand on the prairie, of an August night at full moon, you can hear the corn grow, so quick are nature's processes out there. Had you been, by Governor Seward that day, you might have heard him grow. [Loud applause.] 
And as Seward grows, so grow millions of others, and so the world moves. ’The sword,' says Victor Hugo, is but a hideous flash in the darkness Right is an eternal ray.' Wait! Be patient! In 1760, what Boston rebel boys felt, .James Otis spoke, George Washington achieved, and Everett praises to-day. The same routine will go on. What fanatics feel, Garrison prints, some future Seward will achieve, and at the safe distance of half a century, some courtly Everett will embalm in matchless panegyrics. [Cheers.] 
You see exactly what my hopes rest upon. Growth The Republican party have undertaken a problem, the solution of which will force them on to our position. Not Mr. Seward's Union and Liberty,' which he stole and poisoned from Webster's Liberty and Union.' No; their motto will soon be 'Liberty first'-a long pause—then' Union afterwards.' [Applause and a solitary hiss.)
In 1842. Lindley had finished the railway at Hamburg, and was to open it, when the great fire broke out. The self-satisfied citizens called the Englishman to see how well their six-penny squirts and old pails could put out the fire. But it raged on, till one quarter of the city was in ruins. Mynherr Lindley, what shall we do? cried the frightened Senators of Hamburg.’ Let me blow up a couple of streets,' he answered.’ Never, never, never.' Another day. of flames. Mynherr Lindley, blow up the streets and welcome, only save us.' ’Too late,' replied the engineer. ’To do that, I must blow up the Senate House itself.' They debated an hour, and then said, Mynherr Lindley, save us in your own way.' In one hour, the Senate House was in ruins, and the fire ceased. ‘Be quiet, Mr. Garrison,' said 1830.' Don't you see our six-penny Colonization Society, and our old-fashioned pails of church resolves, nicely copied and laid away in vestries? See how we'll put out this fire of slavery.' But it burned on fiercer, fiercer. What shall we do now? asked startled Whiggery. Keep the new States free abolish slavery in the District shut the door against Texas.' Too much,' said Whiggery;' we are busy now making Webster President, and proving that Mr. Everett never had an anti-slavery idea.' But the flames roll on. Republicanism proposes to blow up a street or two. No, no; nothing but to blow up the Senate House will do; and soon frightened Hamburg will cry Mynherr Garrison, Mynherr Garrison, save us on! your own terms.![Loud applause.] 
You perceive my hope of freedom rests on these rocks: 1st, mechanical progress. First, man walked, dug the earth with his hands, are what he could pick up; then he subdues the horse, invents the plough, and makes the water float him down stream; next come sails, wind mills and water power; then sewing machines lift woman out of torture, steam marries the continents, and the telegraph flashes news like sunlight over the globe. Every step made hands worth less, and brains worth more; and that is the death of slavery. You can make apples grow one half pippin, and the other half russet. They say, that the Romans could roast one half of a boar, and boil the other side. (Laughter.) But I am sure you cannot make a nation with one half-steamboats, sawing machines and Bibles, and the other half slaves. Then another rock of my hope is these Presidential canvasses the saturnalia of American life when slaves like Seward are unchained from the Senate House, as of old in Rome, and let loose on the prairies, to fling all manner of insult on their masters; 
<c06>
He may veil it all hereafter in dignified explanations, but the prairies give back an hundred fold for all seed dropped there. (Applause.) Then the ghost, of John Brown makes Virginia quick to calculate the profit and loss of slavery. Beside this, honest men, few, but the salt of the times, and school-houses and pulpits, and now and then a stray Prince, who locking down South, decline, to venture among a hilarious people, lest, unlike St. Paul's case, they show him very little kindness. So, with trade, art, letters, conscience, fashion, now and then a College redeemed them from old fogies, now and then a Saint, and now and then a Hero lent us by Heaven. we may come at last to be as wise as Napoleon, and believe there is no power without justice; we may grow to be as good Christians as Cicero, and hold that ’business can never be expedient; we may be as good Protestants as DeTocqueville, and declare that' whoever loves freedom for any thing but freedom’s self, is made to be a slave.”
It is indeed cheering to notice the general tone of speaking in this canvass; the much nobler tone of Mr. Seward, for instance, in speaking of the Union on the prairies, than it used to be. I recollect a striking picture he drew in 1850 of the value of the Union, and every line was dollars! ’Amplitude of territory, increase of population, fields, workshops, ships, mines, the plow, loom, anvil, canals, railways, steamboats.’ And the navy’ all earthborn. Now he cries, Whoever says trade is the cement of the Union, libels the idea of American civilization. That is good! [Applause.]
The saddest thing in the Union meetings of last year was the constant presence, in all of them, of the clink of coin-the whirr of spindles the dust of trade. You would have imagined it was an insurrection of peddlers against honest men. [Laugher.] Mr. Everett at Faneuil Hall, when he sought for the value of the Union, could only bewail the loss of our' commercial intercourse, the certainty of ’hostile tariffs.’ ad of hostile <illegible> and danger to the navy'! And this is literally all the merits of the Union that he catalogues! No; I do him injustice. He does ask, in trepidation, in case of disunion, Where. O where, will be the flag of the United States? Well, I think the historical Society had better take it for their Museum. [Laugher and applause.]
Mr. O ’Connor, too, who gave the key-note to the New York meeting. The only argument he has for the Union is his assurance that if we dissolve, there’ be no more marble store fronts' on Broadway, and no brown-stone palaces in the Fifth Avenue! Believe me, this is literally all he named, except one which Mr. Everett must have been under the influence of an anodyne to have forgotten, but which, perhaps, it is better, on the whole, for Mr. O'Connor, seeing Irishman, to recollect -it is this: In ease of dissolving, we shall no longer own the grave of Washington, which, Mr. Everett having paid for, the New York peddling orator finds it hard to loss! And so it strikes me!
But I must confess, those pictures of the mere industrial value of the Union made me profoundly sad. I look, as beneath the skilful pencil trait after <illegible> leaps to glowing life, and ask at last, Is this all? Where are the nobler elements of national purpose and life? Is this the whole fruit of ages of toil, sacrifice and thought -those cunning fingers, the over flowing lap, labor vocal on every hillside, and commerce whitening every sea -all the dower of one haughty, overbearing race? The zeal of the Puritan, the faith of the Quaker, a century of Colonial health, and then this large civilization, does it result only in a workshop -fops melted in baths and perfumes, and men grim with toil? Raze out, then, the Eagle from our banner, and paint instead Niagara <illegible>used, as a cotton mill!
O no! not such the picture my glad heart sees when I look forward. Once plant deep in the nation’s heart the love of right, let there grow out of it the firm purpose of duty, and then from the higher plane of Christian manhood we can put aside on the right hand and the left these narrow, childish and mercenary considerations.
‘Leave to the soft Campanian
His baths and his perfumes;
Leave to the sordid race of Tyre
Their dyeing vats and looms; 
Leave to the sons of Carthage
The rudder and the oar;
Leave to the Greek his marble nymphs,
And scrolls of the wordy lore;
but for us, the children of a purer civilization, the pioneers of a Christian future, it is for us to found a capitol whose corner-stone is Justice, and whose top-stone is Liberty; within the sacred precincts of whose Holy of Holies dwelleth One who is no respecter of persons, but hath made of one blood all nations of the earth to serve him. Crowding to the shelter of its stately arches, I see old and young, learned and ignorant, rich and poor, native and foreign, Pagan, Christian and Jew, black and white, in one glad, harmonious, triumphant procession!
‘Blest and thrice blest the Roman
Who sees Rome's brightest day; 
Who sees that long victorious pomp 
Wind down the sacred way, 
And through the bellowing Forum, 
And ‘round the Suppliant’s Grove, 
Up to the everlasting gates
Of Capitolian Jove [Great applause.]
SPEECH OF JOHN A. ANDREW, ESQ. 
Mr. Andrew, being repeatedly called for, said:-
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS Three years ago, at the autumnal election of 1857, the Constitutional party of Liberty the Republicans Massachusetts-inaugurated Republicanism in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and in the person of NATHANIET <illegible> P. BANKS assumed the reins of power. (Loud Cheers.) The humble citizen whom your animated cheers have forced to the front of the platform so unwillingly to-night, will not be the first in the line of the Massachusetts Republican succession; he will only be the second in a dynasty of Massachusetts Governors which I trust will be as immortal as the Commonwealth (applause); and he will be only too happy if he shall at length leave the chair of State, having performed his public duties with a fidelity, a brilliancy, and a success equal to his immediate predecessor. [Applause.] But in the autumnal election of 1860, the Constitutional party of liberty in America has elected a President, in the person of ABRAHAM LINCOLN, [loud applause.] who will on his assumption of the reins of Federal power, inaugurate a new series of Republican Presidents, interrupted by a series of Presidents who have occupied the Capitol during the last twenty or thirty years, to whose name I will apply no adjective, to whose administrations I will add no epithet. His administration, I doubt not, will  I doubt not, will be successful, patriotic, brilliant, faithfull and true; and I doubt not, friends and fellow-citizens, that he will see to it that the Republic shall receive no detriment, during the years of his rule, and that the people of all the States will stand by him. [Applause.]
The American Union of States, which signifies the wisdom of peace against the folly of war, will last, I believe, as long as the continent shall endure. The confederation itself will one day extend from the torrid to the frigid zone, and be bounded only by the everlasting ice and the impenetrable heat on the north and the south, and be laved on either side by the waves of the ocean. [Applause.] It will be stronger than the rage of man, stronger than slavery, for all it will guarantee hereafter, as it now does, ’a form of republican government' to all the States of the confederacy. By that guarantee of a republican form of government and democratic institutions to all the States of the Confederacy, it enables the people at last, in every State, to abolish every injustice; for injustice, in every form, which, in all society, is the temporary exception, and not the eternal law, will disappear before the rising might of truth, and the growing intelligence of the people, in every State. That, sirs, is my prophecy; and, in the language of one of your own Boston poets, when I contemplate the happy future,- as I dream that it will be, and as I trust in God that it will be hereafter realized, I see our country.
'Like some tall tree, erect its lofty form, 
Green in the sun, and blossom in the storm;
Long in its shade may children's children come,
And welcome earth's poor wanderers to a home;
Long may it live, and every blast defy,
Till time's last whirlwind sweeps the vaulted sky.”
[Prolonged applause.]
