THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Prin
VOL. XXXII. NO. 11.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1629.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
DEFEAT OF THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Vehement language is always justifiable against this class of people, because they are persistent fanatical enemies to the fundamental law of the country. It can never be denied, that they have been active causes in the present rebellion; and it is as clear as a mathematical proposition, that the peace and prosperity of the Republic can never be completely restored until they are suppressed. There they are-a vast noisy body of the men, and women, daily Editors, Parsons, Quarterly Reviewers, and strong-minded females, in incessant, boisterous, turbulent activity, spreading political and religious principles that are most subversive of the pillars of the nation. Out upon them with every man's tongue in the sternest language' and against them be planted every man's foot and shoulder in absolute antagonism! They are pests who deserve no lenity of treatment. In their hands the Constitution of the land would not exist five minutes.
The victory at Fort Donelson is a great defeat to these howling fanatics. Their well-cherished, well-propagated theory, that the slave of the South should be emancipated and made soldiers of before the rebellion could be put down, was upset by the surrender of that fortification. The capture of the rebels at that point-the tremendous victory gained over them there-is ample proof that none of the features of the Constitution need be violate to carry on the war with complete success. This has always been the judgment of the sensible part of the people. The successes at Port Royal, at Spring Hill, at several other places, including Roanoke, strengthened this patriotic judgment: the surrender of the Tennessee Sevastopol has made it a conviction that cannot be removed.
The hoary jobber, Simon Cameron himself, the identical Ex-minister of war, who proposed to arm the slaves, sees now the folly and wickedness of his proposition. No doubt he regrets the non necessity of his own Abolition principles. But who cares? The back bone of the rebellion is now in two; it is in that desperate state by the force of Constitutional means, and all Abolitionism is quaking at the discomfiture of its treasonable plans. Verify, Abraham Lincoln is not so undemocratic, after all! It was a most democratic thing in him to cashier Fremont and Cameron. Stanton and Halleck have served the places of these men in an admirable manner. In Fort Donelson there was a double triumph, one over the rebels, and another over the Abolitionists. Of the two, the latter are the worst enemies to the Constitution. It is the duty of every man to be their antagonist.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
AN EXCELLENT DOCUMENT.
The following (says the Boston Courier) is the admirable proclamation of Commodore Goldsborough and General Burnside, in full. It is as good as "an army with banners." Its explicit disavowal of any purpose to liberate the slaves, or to commit any other outrage, is a sharp blow upon the "wicked and even diabolical" traitors among us, who would pervert the efforts to suppress a rebellion into an infamous outrage upon the rights of a people, a majority of whom are believed to have no heart in the rebellion:
TO THE PEOPLE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
ROANOKE ISLAND, N. C., Feb. 18, 1862.
The mission of our joint expedition is not to invade any of your rights, but to assert the authority of the United States, and to close with you the desolating war brought upon your State by comparatively a few bad men in your midst.
Influenced infinitely more by the worst passions of human nature than by any show of elevated reason, they are still urging you astray to gratify their unholy purposes.
They impose upon your credulity by telling you of wicked and even diabolical intentions on our part; of our desire to destroy your freedom, demolish your property, liberate your slaves, injure your women, and such like enormities-all of which, we assure you, is not only ridiculous, but utterly and wilfully false.
We are Christians as well as yourselves, and we profess to know full well, and to feel profoundly, the sacred obligations of the character.
No apprehensions need be entertained that the demands of humanity or justice will be disregarded. We shall inflict no injury, unless forced to do so by your own acts, and upon this you may confidently rely. 
Those men are your worst enemies. They, in truth, have drawn you into your present condition, and are the real disturbers of your peace and the happiness of your firesides.
We invite you, in the name of the Constitution, and in that of virtuous loyalty and civilization, to separate yourselves at once from these malign influences, to return to your allegiance, and not compel us to resort further to the force under our control.
The Government asks only that its authority may be recognized; and we repeat, in no manner or way does it desire to interfere with your laws, constitutionally established, your institutions of any kind whatever, your property of any sort, or your usages in any respect.
L. M. GOLDSBOROUGH,
Flag Officer Commanding North Carolina Blockading Squadron.
A. E. BURNSIDE,
Brig. Gen. Com'g Department North Carolina.
TREASON IN FULL VIEW.
Several weeks ago, a friend of ours met a strong-minded female acquaintance coming out of a meeting of the faithful in Music Hall, in this city, on the day that news was received here of some triumph of our arms. This woman was in doleful spirits about it, much to the surprise of the gentleman to whom she unreservedly communicated her grief. "Oh,"-she groaned out,-"if things are going on in this way. we shall have the old Government back again and all the slave States, just as they were before, and what will become of emancipation?" Our friend was surprised, as well as indignant, though the revelation gave us no new light. That all agitations, plans and projects, the tendency of which was to break up the Union, were intended to have the effect, however veiled by plausible pretences, we could never doubt; though not often heretofore so expressly developed as by this female secessionist.
Of late, however, it has been more distinctly brought forward, in various quarters. Sumner introduces his abominable resolutions to this end into the Senate; the Tribune and kindred prints advocate the scheme, in diversified shapes, yet with scarcely the pretext of a decent veil to their designs; and now we see that a meeting is to be held at the Cooper Institute, in New York, to-morrow evening, in correspondence with the tenor of summer's resolutions, which had been undoubtedly concocted in
<c02>
concert with the managers of the meeting in question. The call for it we find in the following language, the character and object of which cannot be mistaken:-
"All citizens of New York who rejoice in the downfall of treason, and are in favor of sustaining the national government in the most energetic exercise of all the rights and powers of war, in the prosecution of its purpose to destroy the cause of such treason, and to recover the territory heretofore occupied by certain States, recently overturned and wholly subverted, as members of the Federal Union, by a hostile and traitorous power, calling itself 'The Confederate States'; and all who concur in the conviction that said traitorous power, instead of achieving the destruction of the nation, has thereby only destroyed slavery, and that it is now the sacred duty of the National Government, as the only means of securing permanent peace, national unity and well-being, to provide against its restoration, and to establish in said territories democratic institutions, founded upon the principles of the Great Declaration, 'that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,' are requested to meet at the Cooper Institute, on the 6th day of March inst., at 8 o'clock, P. M., to express to the President and Congress their views as to the measures proper to be adopted in the existing emergency."
This is an acknowledgment of secession with a vengeance! And if of secession, then of all the rights consequent upon it. The syllogistic proposition stands thus-Either these States have effected secession, or they have not. If they have, then we have no more right to establish among them any institutions whatever, than we have to establish them in Peru or Canada. If they have not, then their institutions remain as they were. They are States of the Union still, with rights and privileges undiminished. In the latter case, all we have to do, or can do, is to put down the revolt of certain persons, more or less numerous, living in the South, not meddling with their political institutions, which are already theirs, as our own are ours, under the Constitution of the United States, and with which we have no legal right to interfere.
The shallow sophistry of the project is thus apparent; but the ulterior purpose is also clearly shown. The whole idea of the Cooper Institute meeting is based upon the assumptions of the absurd theory put forth in Sumner's resolutions-that the Confederate Slates are in the condition, as he calls it, of felo de se; and being civilly dead, therefore, the slavery which existed in them is dead also, and they are mere territories, to be occupied by the United States as it pleases, for the establishment of new States, upon the principles of the Declaration of Independence, and not on those of the Constitution,-which of course set aide that Declaration, so far as was inconsistent with it, or as was necessary, when that Constitution was subsequently agreed upon and accepted. This new theory entirely ignores the in-habitants of the Confederate States, to be sure-but what is such a trifle as that to accurate thinkers and accomplished statesmen as Mr. Sumner and his confederates of the Cooper Institute?
We need not say that all this is outright and downright secession; and that if the doctrine of these persons is entitled to prevail, instead of attempting to quell the revolt in the South, we preclude our selves from any interference with them, and in the exercise of reason and justice must "let them alone." If by their own act they can commit suicide as States, they are dead to us, to all intents and purposes. They are then no more our territories, than they are States of the Union. The whole theory is too childishly silly to gain any very extensive hold of the public mind. It is brought forward with a definite object, however,-that is, to promote the abolition cause; and, accordingly, the Cooper Institute wiseacres are proceeding exactly on the motives of the strong-minded woman, with whose distress at our military successes we began these remarks. All these persons are in mortal terror, lest the arms of the Union should be triumphant, the authority of the Constitution be vindicated, the Union be restored. When that takes place, all their anti-slavery agitation comes to an end. After our recent experience, nothing of the sort will be again submitted to, as it has been heretofore. In anticipation of the meeting for the 6th, we get in the New York Anti-Slavery Standard the full development of their motives and objects, as follows:-
"THE TIME IS SHORT. The recent great successes of the Federal arms, their victories at so many and such important points, and the rumors, intrinsically probable, not only of an out-speaking of Union men in various parts to the rebel territory, but of the disposition of a large party in New Orleans itself to capitulate-all these things show an imminent danger now threatening the North. As soon as the existing war ceases, the power (now providentially in the hands of the Government) of directly attacking and thoroughly eradicating slavery will cease, and we fall again within the limitations of a pro-slavery Constitution."
This it will be seen, is in full correspondence with the exposure of this class of agitators, made by us at times and in ways innumerable. They fear our national successes-they fear the rising of Union men at the South-they regard all things which patriots desire with dread and detestation. They look upon the prospect of the restoration of the Union as "an imminent danger now threatening the North." We trust there will be no disturbance of their meeting at the Cooper Institute; but that no person will attend it, except their own set, and an ample array of reporters. We want to see the names of those present in full. We know what they are after- the people should know who they are-and the doom of traitors will be duly theirs.
The whole scheme is as impracticable as it is hostile to every sentiment of humanity; and however the Cooper Institute enthusiasts and fanatics may indulge in such a futile dream, it is certain that their plans are as distasteful to two-thirds of the people of the North, as to the extremest South itself. For these two-thirds are capable of seeing that such a project means the misery and ruin of the country; and they, too, would resist it to the last extremity. But they will be put to no such fatal alternative. The Cooper Institute meeting may come together, and listen to the counsels of the runaway Shurz, or the renegade Boutwell, both of whom are promised by the Tribune among the speakers; but it has no means to carry its evil designs into effect. They constitute what Mr. Lincoln said the emancipation project was-"a John Brown raid on a gigantic scale"-and without the government, the army, or the prevailing popular sentiment, they show themselves only drivellers, to spend their breath for naught.
In fact, without wasting more time upon them, let us say that they cannot discern the signs of the times. They propose to substitute the "sounding generalities" of an instrument [the Declaration of Independence] which was well adapted to the time and the occasion, for the Constitution of the land, which, by its solemn adoption afterwards, abrogated in law whatever was inconsistent with itself. To this sound and sober doctrine, those of the people who had been for a time deluded now rapidly
<c03>
returning. The day is close at hand when the madness and folly of the last few years will be looked back upon by thousands upon thousands of such men as only a fevered dream. It will not need years nor months to make this plain. We do not know the names of many of those set to this notice. We recognize those of some old abolitionists, and some of more modern date. We pity their fatuity, and that of their confederates; and we believe they will have occasion to rue it in dust and ashes.-Boston Courier.
Selections.
"ABOLITION IS TREASON."
This is what the Chicago Times reiterates day after day. It means that slavery is as sacred as the cause of our country-that it is just as criminal to wish for its abolition as to plot against the government, give aid and comfort to its armed enemies, or enlist in the army of Jeff. Davis, The Times enforces its doctrine by "praying to God that it (abolition) may be treated like southern treason."
The Times is not ignorant, nor is it fanatical, for it has not the honesty of a fanatic. It is diabolically partizan. It has taken up the notion that the Democratic party will be destroyed if slavery is abolished by the rebellion. It, therefore, labors strenuously to save slavery from destruction. To do this it seeks to defame the enemies of slavery. Hence it assumes that the government cannot be saved without first saving slavery. Having taken this position, it condemns those who do not believe in its doctrines, as traitors. It then piously exclaims-"Let us pray."
When so many of the political faith of the Times have proved themselves traitors, it would become that paper to be more moderate in its judgment. The whole southern government, and nearly all of the officers of its army, were once laboring with the Times in the same political organization. For instance, Jeff. Davis, Stephens, Toombs, Beauregard, Mason, Slidell, Floyd, Wise, &c. &c. Bright, also, so recently expelled from the Senate for disloyalty, and Vallandigham, who ought to be expelled from the House, are yoke fellows with the Times.
It appears also from the speech of Mr. McDougal, democratic Senator from California, delivered when the case of Bright was considered, that there has been a continued organization, since 1832, to bring about secession; that it was well known to Democrats, known to him. McDougal, and therefore Bright, must have known it, when he wrote the letter to Davis; therefore Mr. McDougal considered him guilty, and voted for his expulsion.
Now, if this secret treasonable organization has existed so long, and was known the whole time to all leading democrats of the nation, does it become them at this time to taunt anti-slavery men with treason? They ought, long ago, to have denounced it, as did Thomas Benton, Silas Wright, and democrats of their school. It is this very organization, founded upon the idea of making slavery the basis of this republic, or of destroying it, that anti-slavery men, or abolitionists, as the Times calls them, have not ceased to warn the country. Because they have done so, they are now denounced as traitors by those who have for years associated with the members of this organization, and allowed them to control the party to which they belonged, when the highest duty of patriotism should have impelled them to expose these life-long traitors. Instead of this, they have concealed the treason, and now when this secret organization for the overthrow of the government, which was so long hidden in the bosom of the democratic party, has thrown off its disguise, such democrats as the Times exhibit more enmity towards a loyal class of men than they do abhorrence of Jeff. Davis and his confederates. Where the Times denounces traitors once, it denounces those who have never swerved in their loyalty a hundred times, and so with all its class. It must, therefore, have a brazen cheek when it accuses republicans of treason.
The anti-slavery men of the country are not traitors-they are intensely loyal-ready to give life and property, everything for the support of the government. They have manifested this in acts of which they do not boast, from the beginning of the rebellion. Not one of them is suspected of disloyalty. It is true, they wish the accursed institution of slavery "wiped out," because they believe and know that it is the cause of all our national troubles. They think it can be done, constitutionally, under the war power of the President and Congress. Since they believe this, and since they are a part of the people and of the government, they will endeavor to have the administration act up to their ideas, if possible; if they fail in this, their life-blood and their money will be just as freely offered to put down rebellion, trusting in God, and not in men, to work out the destruction of this great evil, and the salvation of the republic.-Janesville Gazette.
THE IMMINENT DANGER.
With every advance of our Union armies into the heart of Secessia-with every victory of the loyal forces over the rebel hordes who have raised their impious hands against the Republic-the cry of the Northern advocates of human slavery, that we must not push our advantages too far; that we must remember that the South has "constitutional rights," and that we must not humiliate secession by too great a victory; that this roust not be suffered to "degenerate" into an "Abolition war,"-this cry and more of the same sort grows more and more distinct. Even at a meeting called in this city to take measures for the relief of the wounded Illinois men at Fort Donelson. this was the sing-song of two of the speakers, who, in their incredible zeal for the safety of negro-breeding and amalgamation, forgot the wounded of their own State, torn by the bullets that these same nigger-drivers sent, and went off into deprecatory harangues, which, fortunately for these sympathizers, our soldiers were too far off to hear. From this spirit which is ever breaking out; from this craven fear that the business of man-selling and woman-whipping may receive a check by the onward progress of the Federal arms; from this mistaken mawkishness which turns pale at the thought of pushing the war to is only safe conclusion-the subjugation of the rebels, the abrogation of their State Governments, and the establishment of territorial rule on the ruins-the country has more to fear than from Jeff. Davis and all his tatterdemalions. Any treaty with the rebels in their organized "confederate" capacity, any diplomatic billing-and-cooing, no matter what the result, will be the disgrace of the Federal power, a quasi recognition of the bastard Government, a humiliation to all loyal men, and an ever-to-be-remembered incentive to future rebellion. The revolt must be put down by force of arms. The men whose bad ambition and infinite falsehood have incited and guided it must be hunted to their holes, and then be hung as malefactors, or consent to be forever banished from the country that their crimes nave impoverished and disgraced.
<c04>
The assertion of the Federal power must be co-extensive with the area of the Republic; and with-out terms, quibbles or concessions, it must be accepted as the supreme law. Unconditional submission is that for which true men will struggle. Without it, any peace is but a hollow truce-a breathing spell-to be followed by new outpourings of blood. Though it may cost half a million of lives, and though the Cotton States should smoke with fire from Texas to Charleston, and though every slave should be set free, it must be attained, or the battle is for nought.-Chicago Tribune.
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE?
A special law exists upon the Statute books of the United States, prescribing the condition and state of slaves of rebels serving in a military capacity against the Government. It is plain, clear, and explicit: all such negroes are free. The other day, after some sharp fighting, a large party of rebels were surprised on the Cumberland.
It cost us fifteen hundred loyal men to capture them. Many of those who were our neighbors, sons, brothers, are in the honored grave of the soldier; others are maimed for life. With such serious work, we won Donelson. Among the prisoners were certain and numerous black men. They had made themselves useful in the fort. They had served rebel officers, had brought and carried their masters weapons. When Donelson fell, these men were free. The law had said it. But, no-the chivalrous construction of their duties by our officers forbade their severing the sacred relations of master and slave. Sambo has since been especially guarded, and held up to the performance of his personal duties by Federal bayonets. Government has given the black man rations and transportation to Camp Douglas, has fed him here, and last night when the rebel officers were put on board the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad for Columbus, the black men were closely kept in place by Federal soldiers, and sent with their masters. Is not this an outrage upon decency and a violation of special law? Who will pretend that these blacks are prisoners? Let him stand in awe of the wrath of the secesh for daring to class them with niggers. Who will pretend that they are still slaves, in the face of the statute covering this exact case? Who then is responsible for thus chivalrously giving the rebel officers, our prisoners, each his own nigger, and asking loyal people to pay for the transportation of these blacks and for their support? The colored men should have been banished from Camp Douglas the first day of their arrival. They had no right there, and the commandant should have shown them the gate. In place of so doing, they have been shipped in good order to Columbus. It is a disgrace to Chicago, and to Illinois officers who had no discretion in the matter, who in this outrage have violated the plainest possible law, made expressly for their guidance in such cases. When is there to be an end of this poor truckling to the great evil of the age? Has it not cost our nation enough in respect, in blood, in treasure, already, but that the heavier the penalties we suffer, the deeper our darkness and the more abject our subserviency? What lower depth can we reach?-Chicago Tribune.
WHO ARE THE NEGR0-W0RSHIPPERS? 
Sambo, in certain conditions, is a very precious article of Democratic ornament and utility. North or South as a slave, he is always acceptable. "D-n the niggers," is a fine expletive; but in spite of its frequent use, a prime merchantable darkey is, or used to be, equivalent to a legal tender for fifteen hundred dollars-each dollar a reason why he should not be damned. Sambo drives carriage, acts as body servant, as barber, as carpenter, as table-waiter, as boot-black, or nurse in sickness, as farm hand, as hostler, as wagoner, as woodman, as everything else that will relieve his lazy owner of the mental exertion and physical effort implied in work. In none of these places is Sambo accounted a nuisance, when he is a slave, and works without pay! He all the while smells like a rose; the odor which is so insufferable in free blacks is not perceived in him. Thick lips, woolly heads, long heels, and crooked shins go for naught. In early youth he is the playmate of master's children. Shirtless and breechesless, without coat, hat, or fig-leaf, naked both, and therein on a footing of equality, Sambo and Clarence have common pursuits and many confidences; but to be tolerated in ordinary good families, the certainty that Sambo is to be a slave must be known.
Dinah, too, is a good sort of body as long as her body is owned by some white man, whatever the same Dinah may be when she owns herself. Dinah, in doors, is the complement of Sambo out of doors, with certain important functions added, valuable mainly to white men of polygamous tendencies. Dinah brews and bakes, washes and irons, makes clothes and does chamber work, combs mistress's hair, cares for her dresses, holds her head when it aches, bathes her limbs when she is tired, watches her when she is sick, attends her on journeys, and is her shadow when she is at home. Dinah, if the sign is right, nurses the white children, carries and pets them, submits to their caprices as a slave, should, and gladly permits them to call her "mammy." She can if necessary go to the field, handle the hoe, hold the plow, pick cotton or gather corn. We have never heard that Dinah, in doing any of these things for poor board only and a few cast-off duds was accused of being offensive to touch, sight, bearing or smell. We have known a great many gentlemen in our day, who made the fact that they were brought up at the bosom of Dinah a matter of boast; but we never knew one to make any wry faces at the remembrance of the fountain whence he drew. But then Dinah was all the while a slave. We have known a great many men more than suspected of bearing a very near relation each to some black Dinah's yellow children. Indeed, we think that sort of thing is in Dixie a feather of not inconsiderable length in a man's cap; but we have yet to learn that that sort of nigger-worship is the cause, in any Southern community, of particular disgust. But then to mix the races-the mixee being a slave -is all right! The nigger in bonds is a very lovable animal. He may live in a white man's house, wait on him at table, sit by him in the carriage, go with him to church, work with him in the field, and as long as he is, cash in hand, a thousand dollars more or less, he is a blessing not to be undervalued. He don't smell a bit, no matter how hot the day nor which way the wind. Put shackles on his limbs, and all his fine points come out He is the great Dagon of Southern idolatry-everywhere worshipped, everywhere sought after. A handsome mulatto girl-is she not worth three thousand clean cash?
Our Democratic friends here at the North blow on the toot horn that has been lent them by the South. Damning the niggers with collateral curses for the nigger worshippers, meaning thereby the "Black Republicans," is about their only method of arguing political questions. But we know of few Democrats who object to slaves, who reproach the
<c05>
men of the South with their intimate relations with the blacks, who quarrel with the practice of mixing the races when done according to orthodox Democratic formulas, or who would not at any time enter into patriarchal partnership with a gang of niggers, no matter how large, and according to the custom of the South, eat, drink, and sleep with them all their lives. Their objection to negroes is not, then, on account of their color, or their smell, or their physical conformation; but on account of their condition. While they reproach Republicans, who have antipathies to the African race, with the crime of negro worship, they bare not a word of fault to find with those to whom that worship is incessant and sincere. Hence we have the right to assume and declare that it is Slavery-the principle-with which they are enamored; and that the outcry against those of a different faith is because Freedom is their rule.
As a slave, the negro is well. To eat with him is no disgrace; to be the father of his wife's children is evidence of Southern industry in manufactures; to spend the money that he has earned is a Southern and Democratic right; to be willing to plunge the country into war, that there may be no objection to the full of enjoyment of negroes, is patriotism which the Democracy of the North imperfectly condemn. But let the proposition be made to pay the negro fair wages for a day's work, to let him have his wife to himself, to allow him to spend the money that he earns, to make freedom the rule in a free country, and to suffer Sambo and Dinah to work out their own salvation in their own way, and the cry of "Negro Worshipper." "Abolitionist," comes up loud and strong. We thank Heaven that we have outgrown the fear of that taunt.-Chicago Tribune.
MASS MEETING IN COOPER INSTITUTE.
NEW YORK FOR A FREE REPUBLIC.
Speeches by James A. Hamilton, Carl Schurz, M. F. Conway, and others-Letters from Preston King, Henry Wilson, David Wilmot, George W. Julian, Charles Sumner, and Montgomery Blair.
From the New York Tribune, March 7.
The large Hall of the Cooper Institute was last night the scene of a large and enthusiastic demonstration of the popular sentiment in favor of emancipation as a war measure to secure an early peace, and, through Freedom once secured, to perpetuate our institutions free from internal convulsion in the future.
At an early hour, the crowd began to pour into the Hall, and for a quarter of an hour before the time for the organization of the meeting, all the available space for sitting or standing was occupied. The platform was occupied by leading citizens, many of whom have for years been known for the conservative positions they have occupied in national politics, but there were also those present, in large numbers, who, for long years, have foreseen the inevitable necessity of making Freedom universal in our land, if free institutions are to be perpetuated among us. Among those present were Gerrit Smith, Peter Cooper, Thomas B. Stillman, President Charles King, the Rev. Dr. Hague, John W. Edmonds, and the Rev. Dr. Thompson.
Throughout the meeting, the most enthusiastic responses were given to the utterances demanding the crushing out of the source of treason in our country.
At 8, P. M., Mr. J. MCKAYE called the meeting to order, and said: We have here to-night the son of one of the most distinguished founders of our Government and free institutions-a man who loves liberty and the rights of human nature, as earnestly as his father. I propose for our President the Hon. JAMES A. HAMILTON.
The nomination was acceded to with applause.
Mr. J. B. RICHARDS read the following list of Vice Presidents and Secretaries. They were unanimously elected:-
The Hon. George Bancroft, Frederick Kapp, the Rev. S. H. Tyng, D. D., Isaac Sherman, George Reininger, the Rev. Wm. Hague, D. D., Prof. Francis Lieber, David Dudley Field, Dr. J. A. Forsch, Lewis Tappan, Dr. Henry A. Hartt, Erastus C. Benedict, Andreas Willman, Wm. Cullen Bryant, Prosper M. Wetmore. Adon Smith, A. Walthur, the Rev. E. K. Chapin, D. D., the Hon. George Folsom, the Rev. Peter Stryker, Rufus F. Andreas, Sigismond Kaufman, the Rev. O. B. Frothingham, Dr. Rudolph Dulon, Wm. Curtis Noyes, George P. Putnam, Edgar Ketchum, the Rev. Duncan Dunbar, Horace Webster, L. D., Dr. Charles Kessman, Charles King, LL.D., Theodore Bracklow, the Rev. George B. Cheever, D. D., Dr. Henry Burgman, John W. Edmonds, the Rev. Joseph P. Thompson, D. D., the Rev. A. Cookman.
Secretaries-Charles A. Dana, T. G. Glaubensklee, Samuel B. Barlow, Dr. James B. Richards. Ethan Allen, Hon. Henry B. Stanton, Edward Vorster, A. J. H. Duganne, Dr. W. M. Wermershirsh, George Kupper.
SPEECH OF THE PRESIDENT.
The PRESIDENT then said:
FELLOW-CITIZENS-The honor of presiding at this thronged meeting of those who represent the intelligence, the wealth, the enterprise, the mechanical skill and labor of this great city, excites my sensibility, from the conviction that your choice has been induced not by considerations personal to myself, but from respect to the memory of him whose name I bear. (Cheers.) We are assembled here to express to the President and the Congress of the United States our views of Slavery, its influence upon our national character and the destiny of our country, and to advise the adoption of such measures as will give us permanent peace, and thus secure the future from the dangers and calamities of the present. Let the voice of the loyal men of this great metropolis be given out in no ambiguous terms; let it be the utterance of earnest men, impressed with the magnitude of the consequences involved. Let us, under the hallowed influence of patriotism-of a sense of our duty to the oppressed of this nation-treat this great subject so decisively as that the echo of your voice may come op from the loyal people in all parts of the nation, in tones which cannot be mistaken or disregarded by their Representatives. (Cheers.) With your permission, I will briefly express my opinions of the duties of the people, the powers and duties of the Government, in regard to slavery. The great principle on which our "Representative Democracy" is founded is, "The Freedom of Man." (Applause.) In obedience to this great principle, it is your duty to express your earnest conviction that slavery is not only a great crime, but also a great social and political evil; (cheers)-that it is the direct and immediate cause of the calamities which so sorely afflict the whole country; and, above all, to express your fixed determination that the course and policy of your government shall hereafter be to develop the great principle of human freedom, and not, as it has hitherto been, to extend and fortify slavery. (Applause.) We are told the Government has no power to destroy slavery, because the right of one man
<c06>
to hold his fellow-man in perpetual and degrading bondage is established by State laws. I answer, such laws cannot rightfully exist, either under the Government of the United States, or of the States-Man was created in the express image of his Maker-a responsible being, having an immortal soul. No power less than that which created him, less than omnipotent, can reduce him from his condition of a man to that of a brute-a chattel. (Cheers.)
Has the Government the power to destroy slavery? We are engaged in a war which involves the life or death of the nation. A blow is behalf of slavery has been struck at the national existence. Every Government, whatever may be its Constitution, is necessarily armed with all the powers required to preserve its life. In the exercise of those powers it has the right, and it is its duty, to destroy property, institutions, laws of State, and the lives of those who are, or may be, employed for its destruction, or which may expose the nation to a death-struggle at a future period. (Applause.)
These are rights and duties not to be sought for in Constitutions or laws. They are given and imposed on all governments by that great law of nature, the law of self-preservation.
The President, by his oath of office, is bound, "to the best of his ability, to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution." You will observe, he is required to devote to this first great duty all his ability. He is not limited in doing so to the means committed to him by the Constitution or the laws. From these considerations, it is indisputable that slavery, whether sanctioned or not by State laws, now eminently endangers the national life, or threatens to do so, and therefore may be destroyed by the Government of the United States. As to the question whether, in the exercise of this power, can the Government disregard its own obligations, or the rights of persons? (applause,) I answer, I will refer to an authority which is well entitled to your respect. One of "The Fathers," in discussing the question whether a nation may, in certain extraordinary cases, be excusable for not observing a right in the performance of a duty, says:-
"A nation is excusable in certain extraordinary cases for not observing a right in performing a duty, if the one or the other would involve a manifest and grave national calamity. But here also an extreme case is intended. The calamity to be averted must not only be evident and considerable, it must be such as is likely to prove fatal to the nation, as threatens its existence, or at least its permanent welfare."
Of the second class of exceptions (those which threaten the permanent welfare of the nation)-
"The case of certain feudal rights which once oppressed all Europe, and still oppresses too great a portion of it, may serve as an example; rights which made absolute slaves of a part of the community, and rendered the condition of the remainder not much more eligible.
"These rights, though involving that of property, being contrary to the social order, and to the permanent welfare of society, were justiflably abolished in the instances in which abolitions have taken place, and may be abolished in all the remaining vestiges. (Cheering.)
"Whenever, indeed, a right of property is infringed for the general good, if the nature of the case admits of compensation, it ought to be made, but if compensation be impracticable, that impracticability ought not to be an obstacle to a clearly essential reform." (Applause.)
Fellow-citizens: The people of the loyal States have, with unequalled patriotism, devoted their lives to the service of the country. The Government, through its various departments, has formed an army and a navy of vast proportions and the most efficient character, with a promptitude and skill most honorable to them. Now, let the people require that this accumulated power shall be used not only to crush out armed rebellion, but its malignant cause. (Tremendous and long-continued cheering.) Your military and naval forces with rapid blows are destroying the military power of your enemy; but unless the last blow which is struck strikes off the fetters of the slaves, the work of restoring the Constitution and the Union will be a mockery. (Great applause.)
EDGAR KETCHUM, Esq., read from the following letters. They were received with hearty applause, every allusion to the extinction of slavery being vociferously cheered. The letter of Charles Sumner evoked a magnificent demonstration of enthusiasm:-
LETTER FROM THE HON. PRESTON KING.
WASHINGTON, March 5, 1862.
DEAR SIR,-Your invitation to attend a meeting of citizens of New York who rejoice in the downfall of treason, and who are in favor of sustaining the National Government in the most energetic exercise of all the rights and powers of war in the prosecution of its purpose to destroy the cause of treason, and to express their views as to the measures proper to be adopted in the existing exigencies, to be held at the Cooper Institute on the evening of March 6th, is received.
Slavery and the influence it has exerted over the minds of so many of the people among whom it has existed is the fountain of the treason against our republican institutions, and the cause of the extended insurrection that has subverted the constitutional Governments of so many States, and that is now waging war against the existence and unity of the Government of the United States.
Permanent security to the existence of Republican Government and to the peace of the country requires that the cause of the treason, as well as the treason itself, shall be overcome and extinguished, or placed at once under such control of law as will produce its extinction, and thus make certain that its power and influence to disturb the public peace can never be renewed. The whole power of the Government should be put forth, with prompt and persistent energy, to overcome by military force, and capture or disperse, the armed organizations of the insurgents, and to seize the persons of the ringleaders, that the penalty for treason may be inflicted upon them.
Every citizen who desires the perpetuity of republican government should give his hearty support to the Government in accomplishing these objects. I should be glad to be present at the meeting as the Cooper Institute, but public engagements here prevent me. Please to accept my thanks for your invitation.
Very respectfully,
PRESTON KING.
Mr. JAMES MCKAYE, Chairman Committee, &c.
LETTER FROM THE HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
SENATE CHAMBER, March 5, 1862.
DEAR SIR,-Never, except when disabled by ill-health, have I allowed myself to be absent from my seat in the Senate for a single day, and now, amid the extraordinary duties of the present session, I am more than ever disposed to adhere to this inflexible rule. lf anything could tempt me to depart from it, I should find an apology in the invitation with which yon have honored me.
The meeting which has been called under such
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
distinguished auspices, is needed at this moment to tally the country to those true principles by which alone this great rebellion can be permanently suppressed. I should be truly happy to take part in it, and try to impart to others something of the strength of my own convictions. 
It is only necessary that people should see things as they are, and they will easily see how to deal with them. This is the obvious condition of practical action. Now, beyond all question, slavery is the great transcendant malefactor and omnipresent traitor— more deadly to the Union than all the leaders, civil or military of the rebellion. Of course, therefore, if you are in earnest against the rebellion, you will not spare slavery. And happily the way is plain— so that it cannot be mistaken.
Look now throughout the whole rebel territory, and you will not find a single officer legally qualified, to discharge any of the functions of Government, By the Constitution of the United States, "members of the several State Legislatures and all executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and the several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation
to support this Constitution." But these functionaries have all renounced their allegiance to the United States, and taken a new oath to support the Rebel Government, so that at this moment they cannot be recognized as constitutionally empowered to act. But a State is known only through its functionaries, constitutionally empowered to act; and since these have ceased to exist, the State, with its unnatural institutions has ceased to exist, or it exists only in the dead parchments by which its Government was originally established. The action of these functionaries was impotent to transfer its territory to a pretended confederation. To destroy the States was all that they could do.
In the absence of any constitutional authority in this territory, Congress must assume all necessary jurisdiction. Not to do so will be an abandonment of urgent duty. There are some who propose a temporary military government; others propose; a temporary provisional government, with limited powers. "All these concede to Congress jurisdiction over the territory; nor can this jurisdiction be justly questioned, But it seems to me clearly best that, on this important occasion, we shall follow the authoritative precedents of our history, and proceed as Congress has been accustomed to proceed in the organization and government of other territories. This will be simple. And, as to slavery, it there be any doubt that it died constitutionally and legally with the State from which it drew its wicked breath, it might be prohibited by the enactment of that same Jeffersonian ordinance, which originally established Freedom throughout the great North-West,
Accept my thanks for the honor you have done me, and believe me, dear sir.
Faithfully yours, CHARLES SUMNER
JAMES MCKAYE, Esq., Chairman, &c.
LETTER FROM THE HON. HENRY WILSON.
WASHINGTON, MARCH 4, 1862.
DEAR SIR: Your note requesting my attendance at a meeting to be held on the evening of March 6, of the citizens of New York "who rejoice in the downfall of treason," and ready "to destroy the cause of such treason," has been received. I regret that my duties here will not permit me to meet with the citizens of the commercial metropolis of our country, who will on that occasion respond to the summons of the eminent gentlemen who compose your committee.
I am sure your meeting will fully comprehend the duties of the hour, and utter the accents of patriotism and humanity.
Slavery, not content with stifling for years the Voice of conscience and of reason, diminishing the spirit of Liberty, scoffing at the faith and creed of the Republican Fathers, debauching political organizations, and dishonoring the public men of our age, has extinguished the patriotism of large masses in one section of our country, and impelled its supporters to raise the banners of a bloody insurrection.
To-day Slavery "has lifted up," in the words of Bancroft, "its hand to strike a death-blow at our existence as a people— it has avowed itself a desperate and determined enemy of our national life, of our unity as a Republic." Shall we confront this "desperate and determined enemy of our national life," with uplifted "hand to strike a death-blow at our existence," with soft words and whispering humbleness, or shall we not rather, in the name of a periled
country, by the strong hand of an outraged people, smite it down forever?
Humanity, justice, and patriotism all demand that the American people should never pardon the GREAT CRIMINAL that has raised the banner of revolt against the unity and authority of the Republic. The blood of our fallen sons demands that the Government for which they gave their lives should walk up to the verge of Constitutional power in inflicting condign punishment on their murderer. The nation, imperiled by slavery, should use every legal and constitutional power to put it in process of ultimate extinction. To that end I would at once abolish
slavery in the District of Columbia, repeal the BLACK CODE that dishonors the National Capital, tender to the loyal slaveholding States the treasures of the Federal Government to aid them in the work of Emancipation, deal justly and liberally with the loyal men of the rebel States, but free the bondmen of rebels.
With much respect, I am your obedient servant,
HENRY WILSON.
To J. McKAYE, Esq., Chairman of Com. of Arrangements.
LETTER FROM THE HON. DAVID WILMOT.
WASHINGTON, March 5, 1862.
DEAR SIR: Your letter of invitation to attend a meeting to be held at the Cooper Institute, in the City of New-York, on Thursday evening, the 6th inst., has been received.
I am honored by your invitation, and would be pleased, if it were convenient, to be present and participate in the proposed meeting. My public duties will hold me here; and I can only respond briefly by letter to your kind invitation.
I heartily approve of the objects of the meeting as set forth in the call. The honor and safety of the nation demand that the cause of this gigantic rebellion should be forever removed. This alone will give us peace and safety, honor and national respect. Slavery is the one exclusive, and only cause of the rebellion and the war, through which we are struggling for national existence. It is now made clear to all, that slavery is the deadly foe of the Union—the implacable and eternal foe of free Government. A truly free Government, founded upon justice and right, and appealing to reason and beneficent laws for support, never did and never can long exist in the midst of slavery. God, in his providence, has placed slavery within the rightful power of the nation. We must not tremble and hesitate, because of the magnitude of the labors and duties east upon us: we must meet and discharge our duties, as men in whose hands is placed the ark of human happiness and hopes. We must and will, if true to God, our country, and the race of mankind, now and forever destroy and wipe out from this nation the accursed institution of human slavery.
The slaveholder, by his treason and rebellion against the Constitution, and by the war he has forced upon the Government for self-preservation, has wholly absolved us from all constitutional and political obligations to treat his unnatural claim of property in man with any toleration whatever. When the traitor is forced by arms from his purpose to destroy the Constitution and Government, he cannot, the moment be is defeated in his wicked purpose, plead the Constitution he made war to overthrow as the shield and protection for his forfeited rights of slavery. It is the right and duty of the nation to protect itself now and in the future. We most make sure against another rebellion greater than that now upon us. The national life must be preserved by applying the knife to the cancer that is eating the very substance and life of the nation. The nation most make a proclamation of freedom to the slaves of every traitor; and as a matter of policy, not of strict right, provide for making compensation to loyal slaveholders, for the temporary loss incident to the speedy emancipation of their slaves. Less than this we cannot do with honor or safety. We have a right to do more. We have a right, instantly and at once, to uproot and eradicate forever any local institution, law, custom, usage, that puts in imminent peril the national life. We have a right to kill slavery that the nation may live.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D. WILMOT.
JAMES MCKAYE, Chairman of Committee.
LETTER FORM THE HON. GEORGE W. JULIAN.
WASHINGTON, D. C., March 4, 1862.
DEAR SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 1st inst, inviting me to be present at your proposed meeting at the Cooper In
<c02>
stitute on Thursday next, and I regret that my public duties here forbid my attendance. I could not hope, however, if present, to say anything new respecting our national troubles, or their cause and cure. Upon these topics I have already avowed my opinions, quite explicitly and at some length, in a speech in the House of Representatives, on the 14th of January: and every passing day deepens my conviction of the truth of my positions. This rebellion is the child of slavery. It admits of no other possible solution. The fact is as palpable as the existence of the rebellion itself, and requires as little proof. If there are persons who deny it, the attempt to convince them of their error would be like "administering medicine to the dead."
We are thus prepared to demand the only true and saving policy for our country, namely, the total extirpation of slavery, as the righteous purpose of the war and the sole means of a lasting peace. As an argument against slavery and a reason for its overthrow, this rebellion is overwhelming. All the evils of slavery, social, moral, political and economical, are eclipsed by this final tragedy. We have patiently borne with these evils for more than 70 years, striving to live with the monster in peace, and to placate its spirit by every form of concession and compromise, only to be rewarded by this stupendous scheme of treason, piracy, and murder. Having run through the whole gamut of ordinary villanies, slavery has at last turned National assassin. It has inundated the land with the hoarded atrocities of two hundred years, and painted its own character with a pencil dipped in hell. Every dollar expended in this war is expended because of slavery. Every soldier perishing in battle or by disease is the murdered victim of slavery. And every wail of sorrow ascending from broken and bleeding hearts is a "Thus saith the Lord" for scourging it from the land. These facts, instead of being ignored, should be kept in perpetual remembrance: for we can only hope for the favor of God in this terrible struggle by keeping steadily in view the cause of our quarrel.
If it be said that the Constitution stands in the way of this policy, I reply, that the Constitution was made for the people, not the people for the Constitution. The Nation is greater than the Constitution, because it made the Constitution. The present Administration has taught us, by some striking examples, that the country is paramount to the Constitution, and no one could complain should this principle be adopted in dealing with slavery, the source of our disasters. But I reply, further, that this is unnecessary. The Constitution recognizes the war power of the Government, which the rebels have compelled us to employ against them, and that power is, of course, commensurate with the demand for its employment. As a "military necessity," in strict accordance with the laws of war, and without any violation of the Constitution, we can now destroy the institution of slavery utterly, if we will. The rebels having taken their stand outside of the Constitution, and defied its power, have no rights under it which loyal men are bound to respect. They have forfeited their property of every description, and the right to their own godless lives. The rebel States, by their act of rebellion, have committed suicide, and Congress ought to say so, and eondemn them as traitors, preparatory to their reorganization and admission as states. Nothing short of this sweeping policy will save the country. We must cease to regard rebels and outlaws as "our misguided Southern brethren," and deal with them as rebels and outlaws. We must cease to deal with slavery as our pet and favorite, as the spared object of our love, and give it our quickest and hardest blows. Instead of giving the world to understand that this is a mere contest for power between contending States, we must write Freedom on our banner, and thus elevate our cause to the dignity of a grand battle for Republicanism. Nor should the Administration hesitate a moment to reconsider its avowed policy of reconstruction on the basis of slavery, which would leave the cause of all our troubles to canker the heart of the nation anew, and repeat its diabolical deeds.
I agree that this is not a struggle for the emancipation of black men, but for the life of a nation of thirty millions of people; but since it is slavery that has the nation by the throat, and thus thrusts upon us the issues of its life or death, we should destroy absolutely and forever. Not to do so would be the most Heaven-daring recreancy to the grand trust which the circumstances of the hour have committed to our hands. The mere suppression of the rebellion will be a horrid mockery of our sufferings and sacrifices, if we do not see to it that a permanent peace shall follow; while the millions in chains, now legally free by the act of their rebel masters, would certify before Heaven against us as the authors of their cruel destiny.
Heartily desiring that your meeting may be decided success, and a help in this time of need to the cause of Liberty, Union, and Peace,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
GEO. W. JULIAN.
JAMES McKAYE, Esq.
LETTER FROM THE REV..JOHN PIERPONT.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) March 3, 1862.
My DEAR SIR: Thanks for your invitation, this moment received. Would God that I could be with you on the 6th; but I cannot, without more expense of money and muscle than I can afford.
So, then, since I cannot spirit my body so far, I embody my spirit "in these few lines," which pray read to the meeting, instead of a longer, but not a stronger, speech from
Your obedient servant,
JOHN PIERPONT.
To J. McKAYE, Esq.
This fratricidal war
Grows on the poisonous tree,
That God and men abhor-
Accursed Slavery.
And God ordains that we
Shall eat this deadly fruit,
Till we dig up the tree,
And burn its every root.
Eloquent speeches-such as the times demand- were made by Rev. M. D. Conway and Hon. Carl Shurz, and the following Resolutions adopted:-
Resolved, That inasmuch as our nationality and democratic institutions are founded upon the idea that "all men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," whatever tends to weaken and destroy the vital force of this idea in the popular heart constitutes the most dangerous and fatal enmity to the real unity, true peace and glory of the nation,
Resolved, That national unity does by no means consist alone in the conservation of territorial domain, but in identity of idea and affection. In the heart of no people can a genuine love of liberty and the rights of human nature coexist with a toleration of slavery.
Slavery is treason to the fundamental idea of our national existence, and the war but its necessary and legitimate effect. In the present imminent crisis, he who seeks to maintain slavery becomes there by the abettor of the great treason.
Resolved, That in the present extreme exigency brought upon the country by slavery, we hold the right of the National Government to destroy that sole cause of all our disasters, not only to be clearly within the Constitution, but to be imperatively demanded by it;
First, upon the ground that its existence is wholly incompatible with national self-preservation. Either the nation must die or slavery must;
Second-Because the rights and powers conferred by the laws of war upon all sovereignties, and under our system of delegated power, primarily upon the President and Congress, constitutionally require its destruction as the only effectual means of ending the conflict, and reestablishing permanent national peace and prosperity;
And lastly and preeminently, because the supreme jurisdiction of the National Constitution over all the territories now occupied by the rebel States must be held to be exclusive of the traitorous rebel authorities therein established, by virtue of which alone slavery now therein exists, and that wherever the Constitution has exclusive jurisdiction, it ordains liberty and not slavery. This is the very ground upon which the people placed the present Administration in power, and in derogation of which the rebels wage their war.
Resolved, That while slavery remained upon its own ground, good citizens might deem themselves bound by a just respect for the National Constitution to refrain from dealing with it as in its own nature it deserved. But since its masters have begun a war for its triumph and the subjugation of our National Government and free institutions, we deem it our supremest duty never to make peace with or cease our conflict with it until it shall be extirpated from the whole land.
Resolved, That we entertain no jot of hatred or hostility towards the great body of the people of the rebel States; and, therefore, while we stand ever ready to welcome them to a loyal reunion under our glorious National Constitution, in the words of the Farewell Address of the Father of his Country, we desire that "the happiness of the people of these States may be made complete under the AUSPICES OF
<c03>
LIBERTY," and not utterly and forever rendered impossible by the re-institution of slavery.
We repudiate, therefore, and utterly repel the idea that the property and blood of the loyal people of the free States are to be wasted without result, in the suppression of the military power of the rebels, in order that the Capital may in the end be surrendered into the hands of the conquered traitors, and the National Government be again put under the heel of the slave barons.
Resolved, therefore, That amid the varied events which are occurring during the momentous struggle in which we are engaged, it is the duty and interest of the Government and the people to adopt and to advocate such measures as will ensure universal emancipation, and thus complete the work which the revolution began.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1862.
THE PRESIDENTS MESSAGE.
The message that was transmitted to Congress by President Lincoln, on the 6th instant, recommending the passage by that body of a resolution, proffering the pecuniary cooperation of the United States in case any Slave State shall adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, has excited deep interest and universal discussion. We will very briefly say what we think of it.
First-as to its style. It is very evident that the President writes all his own messages; for they are al. alike bunglingly expressed, and quite discreditable in that particular as official documents. Take, for example, the paragraph in which "the initiation of emancipation" is reiterated in such a jumbling manner in the course of half a dozen lines. But this is a trifling matter, though deserving of criticism. The Cabinet should help the President to mend his phraseology.
Second-The resolution proposed for adoption by the President gives no reason for such an anomalous overture to the Slave States; it says nothing about any national or governmental exigency rendering the measure necessary or expedient; upon the face of it, it has no relation to the war, in which alone, even as a suggestion, it can find any constitutional warrant; and it is without limitation as to the period in which the offer may be accepted. In all these particulars it is radically defective.
Third-It offers a bounty to all the States that are in confederate rebellion against the government, as much as to any so-called loyal Slave States; and this it cannot do with any sort of propriety, justice, or consistency. Treason is not a purchasable or negotiable article; and traitors are not to be allowed to make terms with a profit to themselves, by the government they are seeking to overturn.
Fourth-It not only perversely recommends "a gradual abolishment of slavery," but by its very terms holds out no inducement for any State to immediately emancipate its slaves; whereas, slavery ought not to exist for one moment, and special inducements ought to be held out for its instant abolition as against a lingering process.
Fifth-The President is at war with common sense, sound reason, the teachings of history, the instincts and aspirations of human nature, the laws of political economy, and the uniform results of emancipation, when he says-" In my judgment, gradual and not sudden emancipation is better for all, in the mere financial or pecuniary view"-because no such paltry consideration is allowable, even if it were (as it surely is not) well founded. Ethically and pecuniarily, immediate emancipation is best for all parties; and the President is culpable for keeping up the old delusion of "gradualism." Away with it!
Sixth-The President, as well as Congress, in consequence of this slaveholding rebellion, and the dire extremity into which it has brought the nation, has now THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT, POWER AND OPPORTUNITY to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof"; and neither the President nor Congress must be allowed to evade this solemn duty by any dodge of this kind. "Now is the accepted time," and now let it be "the day of salvation." Multitudes of petitions from all the free State signed by tens of thousands of estimable citizens, are before Congress, asking for the immediate abolition of slavery under the war power; and are these to be satisfied by proposing such a will-o'-th'-wisp as a substitute? Why wait for the dealers in human flesh to determine when they will deem it advisable to cease from their villany as a matter of pecuniary advantage and cunning speculation with the Government, when the Government is clothed with constitutional power to dispose of the whole matter, at once, without any huckstering or delay? "Let justice be done, though the heavens fall." President Lincoln, delay not a your peril! "Execute judgment in the morning- break every yoke-let the oppressed go free.
WITHERED BE THEIR LAURELS.
By turning to the "Refuge of Oppression," on the first page, our readers will find what the profligate and brazen-faced Boston Courier characteristically styles" an admirable proclamation" by L. M. Goldsborough, Flag Officer Commanding North Carolina Blockading Squadron, and A. E. Burnside, Brig. Gen. Commanding Department North Carolina. No matter what "laurels" those officers have won, or may win, by their successes, one such proclamation should blast them forever. Mark what is said in the following extract:-
"They impose upon your credulity by telling you of wicked and even diabolical intentions on our part; of our desire to destroy your freedom, demolish your property, liberate your slaves, injure your women, and such like enormities-all of which, we assure you, is not only ridiculous, but utterly and wilfully false We are Christians as well an yourselves, and we profess to know full well, and to feel profoundly, the sacred obligation of the character." There's a specimen of moral discrimination and "Christian" principle for you!-placing the liberation of the slaves in the category with the destruction of liberty, the demolition of property, the perpetration of rape, "and such like enormities"! But these gentlemanly officers very significantly remark- addressing the rebel slave-mongers of North Carolina -"We are Christians as well as yourselves"! Precisely of the same stamp, beyond all cavil! And they all "feel profoundly the sacred obligations of the character," precisely in the same manner and the same extent. Such officers deserve to be cashiered without delay. They are a disgrace to civilization, to say nothing of Christianity.
GREAT MEETING AT COOPER INSTITUTE.
The meeting held at Cooper Institute, in New York, on Thursday evening of last week, (it will be seen by the account given in preceding columns from the Tribune,) with reference to the abolition of slavery as essential to the peace and unity of the republic, was great success, not only on the score of numbers, but in view of its commanding intelligence, talent and moral weight of character. In addition to the letters received, that we have printed, was a long one from the Postmaster General, Hon. Montgomery Blair, which being exactly adapted to the "Refuge of Oppression," we shall place in that infamous department in next week's Liberator. It is reeking with the venom of malignant colorphobia, and impudently asserts that "this jealousy of caste is the instinct of the highest wisdom, and is fraught with the highest good"!! Of course it is in favor of expatriating the whole colored population to some foreign territory! To the colonization of Montgomery Blair, there can be no objection whatever.
A racy and spirited speech was made by Rev. Moncure D. Conway, a native of Virginia, followed by an exceedingly able and eloquent one by Hon. Carl Shurz, which occupies nearly one closely printed page of the Tribune, and was warmly applauded throughout
<c04>
THE BIRTHDAY OF WASHINGTON-SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
The anniversary of the birthday of Washington was celebrated on the 22d ultimo, by a dejeuner, at the Freemasons' Tavern, London, at which some two hundred ladies and gentlemen (mostly Americans) participated. A portrait of Washington was suspended behind the Chairman's seat, flanked on either side by the "Star-spangled Banner" and the "Union Jack." The Rt. Rev. Dr. McIlvaine, Bishop of Ohio, presided; and among those who supported him were Mr. Adams, the American Minister; Messrs. Wilson and Moran, Secretaries of the United States Legation; Mr. Morse, United States Consul in London; Cyrus W. Field, Dr. Margown and others. Letters of apology for non-attendance were read from Earl Spencer, Messrs. Bright, Scholefield and Gibson, members of Parliament; Mr. Dayton, United States Minister to Paris; M. Kossuth, and others.
The proceedings were highly patriotic, and occupy, with the letters received, no less than sixteen and a half columns of the London American, of the 26th ult. Speeches were made by Hon. Charles Francis Adams, U. S. Minister to the Court of St. James; Rev. J. Simkinson, Rev. Dr. Ferguson, Dr. MacGowan, Geo. Thompson, Esq., Hon. F. H. Morse, (U. S. Consul,) Cyrus W. Field, Esq., Washington Wilks, Esq., Geo. W. Train, and others. Below is Mr. Thompson's eloquent and magnanimous tribute.
SPEECH OF MR. THOMPSON.
Gentlemen, I cannot say that I am wholly unaccustomed to public speaking; but this I can say, that addressing meetings like the present is by no means my hobby, and I have frequently rather shunned gatherings of this kind than sought attendance at them; and still less have I ever felt inclined to make meetings like this an opportunity of stating my private sentiments. I cheerfully consented, however, to respond to the toast of "The President of the United States," because I thought, in doing so, I could discharge an individual feeling, and that I could, at the same time, speak with some authority with regard to the feelings of my countrymen at large. There has not been before the world, for the last fifteen or sixteen years, a man for whose situation I have so deeply sympathized as the President of the United States of America. I have bitterly mourned over the course taken by many of my countrymen, who, ignorant of the circumstances in which the President is placed, have censured his measures, brought unfounded charges against him, and rebuked him for weakness and hesitancy, when I had reason to believe that he was not justly liable to any of those imputations. (Hear, hear.) Were this a mere formal toast, I should have declined to have any connection with it, in the way of recommending it to an audience like the present, because it is not my wont to discharge these mere formal duties; but I am here to declare my own conviction, that Mr. Lincoln is peculiarly entitled to our sympathies, our respect, and our admiration, whether he be regarded simply in his own private character, or as the elect of a great nation of free and united citizens, or in his peculiar situation as Chief Magistrate of the United States at this moment. (Cheers.) On behalf of the people of this country, I may take it upon myself to say that-whenever they are fairly and fully informed with regard to the circumstances in which Mr. Lincoln, as well as every subordinate office bearer in the United States, is placed, by his obligations to observe the Constitution of that country, and by the very oath which he takes when he undertakes to serve that country-whenever the truth has been fairly and fully spoken, there has been at once a withdrawal of those imputations that have been thrown upon the President. I believe that this country never fairly considered the circumstances under which Mr. Lincoln was elected, nor are they aware, as they should be, of the nature of the obligations he has assumed.
The people of this country are but imperfectly acquainted with the Constitution of the country to which the majority of this assembly belong. Many have the impression that the Chief Magistrate is individually empowered to do whatever he pleases with regard to that great question which lies at the root of the present unhappy conflict, and that he may be censured if he does not exert that power. If they do not ascribe to the President that power, they at least believe that the Congress possesses it. Whenever they are told that neither the President nor the Congress has the power to do what it was always competent for our Parliament to do, seeing that they could determine whatever measure they pleased- whenever they are informed of the real state of the case, they can understand more clearly the circumstances in which the Government of the United States is placed.
With regard to the sympathy of the people of this country with the North, I assert that, so far as the industrious classes are concerned, in all the meetings I have held among them, and in private intercourse with them, I have scarcely ever discovered, when the truth has been fairly placed before them, any difference with the people of the North now engaged in this fierce conflict. (Hear, hear.) If anything would have tried the loyalty of the people to their principles in regard to freedom, it is the recent adversity that has come upon our manufacturing districts, through the suspension, and, in fact, the entire stop page of one of the greatest branches of manufacture in this country. Yet, from the various meetings which I have attended in Manchester and its neighborhood, I am able here to declare that there is the greatest and most noble spirit of self-denial amongst the working classes of this country. (Loud cheers.)-Again and again I have put the question pointedly, and in the plainest and directest terms,-"Will you hamper the Government of the United States, and paralyze the people of the North, or at least distract their attention and engage them in two wars at the same time, by a precipitate recognition of these seceded States, or by attempting to break the blockade of the Southern ports?" The reply has always been the same-"No!" (Loud cheers.) There is not a sentiment in the English mind at this time more powerful and more universal than the sentiment of entire non-interference in the present state of affairs. (Hear, hear.)
I said that Mr. Lincoln was entitled peculiarly to our sympathy. No other President of the United States-though each in his turn has bad difficulties to contend with-was placed in circumstances so embarrassing as those in which Mr. Lincoln is placed. The Northern States have been accused of rashness; the war has been imputed to them; the vices, the want of integrity, and the treachery, which are ascribable solely to the South, have been almost invariably as­cribed to the North-or it has been attempted to be shown that they were equally conspicuous for those evils with the South. But when we look at Mr. Lincoln, called to Washington at a time when secession was already resolved upon, and all the means for rendering it an accomplished fact taken; when the act of secession had actually been made by some of the Southern States, finding himself in the Presidential chair, at the head of a corrupted and in great part a treasonable army, with men around him in every department
who were, many of them, declared enemies to the Constitution which he had sworn to preserve- we behold a man entitled, under these circumstances, to our collective and national sympathy. (Cheers.)
Whenever I have endeavored to judge the conduct of Mr. Lincoln, or of his Government, I have felt it my duty to realize the circumstances in which they are placed-to ascertain carefully what are their true Constitutional powers, and what are the limitations of those powers-to place myself in their circumstances, and to judge what I would do if I were so placed, not with reference to my hopes and wishes and inspirations, but with reference to my ability on the one hand, and my obligations on the other. When I have judged Mr. Lincoln by such a standard as this, be may not have done in every case that which I may have desired him to do, yet l am here prepared to say that I congratulate my American brethren that they have in the
<c05>
person of Mr. Lincoln a person pre-eminently entitled to their warm attachment and most cordial support. (Load cheers.) No one can trace his history without speaking of him in terms of admiration. He was first of all dependent upon his own industry as a field laborer, I believe-a rail splitter-he successively became a soldier, a lawyer, a representative in Congress, and then President of the United States. Without abating one jot of my fervent loyalty to my own sovereign, I congratulate you that you live under institutions in America which enable every fond mother, when she gazes on the face of her darling child, to see in him a possible heir apparent to the throne-(laughter)-for I see it so in the case of Mr. Lincoln; and what has happened to that orphan child, will, I hope, often happen to distinguished statesmen in those successive generations in which the Union will last. (Hear, hear.)
We are constantly told that what is going on in America is the result of democracy running to seed, and that all the excesses of democracy are proving its absolute failure. If we are to judge of democracy by the fact that, at the end of seventy-three years from the time the Constitution was adopted, a rebellion has arisen, what shall we say of monarchy on the continent of Europe? (Cheers.) I maintain that your glorious Union is disrupted, not because of the failure of democracy, but because of a defection from the principles of democracy. (Cheers.) Why, sir, in one of the Richmond papers some months ago, we had a programme of their new Government-a very great Government army, a privileged class, a high qualification for voters, and in fine nothing was wanting but a crown or a coronet to make a monarchical government altogether. I maintain, sir, that these principles are not the principles of the great North, and that whatever disfigures the South, and disgraces the South, and brings upon it the just condemnation of mankind, is ascribable not to democracy, but to the seed which was sown before the Revolution itself, and which has grown into a monstrous and contemptible oligarchy. (Cheers.)
I will not touch upon the question to which Dr. Ferguson has so beautifully referred, nor will I again sound the praises of my own countrymen; but this I will say, sir, that I am from my own knowledge cognizant that there is at this time a larger number of persons interested in the cause of humanity and freedom in the North-men and women who have made greater sacrifices, and run more risks, than ever existed in this country at any period of our anti-slavery existence. (Hear, hear.) We are too much misled by individuals and the statements of persons in authority. This is not the best mode of ascertaining the true state of the public mind in the Northern States. It is not from newspapers published in Philadelphia, or Boston, or New York, that you can ascertain the true feeling that prevails in the New England States. You can only get this information, as I have done, by travelling through those States, and ascertaining from the people, and judging from their own actions, what their real opinions are.
I venture to express a hope that, as events are now shaping themselves, and compelling statesmen to attend to them rather than control them, not only that your Union may be restored, and certain of your stars which are now eclipsed may appear in the field more resplendent than ever, but that when that happy day arrives, you may not only rejoice in the re-establishment of the Union at present severed by traitorous hands, and of your unrivalled Constitution, but that you may find that you have not only restored the Union, and recovered your status as a great nation, but in the progress and issue of this great war, you may secure also impartial and universal liberty. (Loud is cheers.) Of the success of the North I have no fear; I never had any fear. (Hear, hear.) I could have had none, unless I had lost all faith in human progress, and all belief in an overruling Providence. I know that the city of Boston alone could buy up North Carolina and all her slaves, and that New York could buy to up Virginia, and have thirty millions sterling to spare, I know the blighting influence of slavery in the South; but I see in the North a display of virtue and a determination that their country shall be regenerated, and I cannot doubt the issue of this contest. (Hear, hear.) You may have to struggle for a while, but the time is coming when, in the language of one of our poets:-
Like some tall cliff that rears its awful form,
Swells from the vale and midway meets the storm;
Though round its breast the gathering clouds are spread,
Eternal sunshine settles on its head.
The speaker resumed his seat amidst loud applause.
LECTURE BY WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
The sixth lecture before the Emancipation League was delivered in the Music Hall on Monday evening by Wendell Phillips, to a large audience. The lecturer commenced by saying that the friends of the Emancipation League meet now under the happiest auspices. All the news that comes to us is good, and favorable to their cause. All the signs of the times are on their side. The only danger is, lest the Northern people should take too much courage and relax
their zeal, trust in the logic of events which they may think could only result in the emancipation of the blacks. This continent must be, at no distant day, under one government and one race, but it will take more than a quarter of a century to perfect the work. This is a war between the slaveholders and the influence which their system has persistently exerted upon ten millions of people for the last thirty years. And it never will cease until the people are abolished, or slaveholders are. The only end to this war is in the total annihilation of one or the other. There is no probable ground for believing that the slaveholders can be converted; they must be expelled, or we must wait until they die out.
The contest between Kansas and Missouri was an epitome of that now raging between the North and South. Missouri invaded Kansas, and taught her to fight, so that five years of experience turned Kansas from an army of farmers to an army of Jayhawkers, which means Abolitionists with guns in their hands. And he would that all the 700,000 men of the North now in arms were Jayhawkers.
Another cause for congratulation is, that now, for the first time in the struggle, the President pronounces for us. From the holy of holies at Washington, we hear at last a voice. And I, for one, welcome that voice with my whole heart. It is one more sign of promise. (Applause.) It the President has not entered Canaan, he has turned his face Zionward. (Great applause.) In England, years ago, the government spoke just such quiet words, and later came
the struggle of eleven hot years before which slavery went down. So do we believe our President's words are the handwriting on the wall. (Applause.)
The lecturer further commented on the proclamation, saying that by it the President says in effect: "Gentlemen of the border States, now is your time. If you want your money, take it, and if hereafter I should take your slaves without paying, don't say I did not offer to do it."
Another bow of promise. This proclamation comes unexpected, unannounced, like a thunderbolt in the clear sky, and from the entire Northern press goes up the voice of approval. This shows that the North is ready to follow where the President leads; and who can tell whither the next step will fall?
The President's proclamation is wonderfully suggestive, immensely pregnant with ideas. We have it been told for the last fifty years that we must deal with slavery according to the strict letter of the Constitution; but where does the President find any authority for paying the slaveholders of Kentucky and Tennessee for their slaves, or for aiding people to get rid of a nuisance? The first line of the message re cognizes the existence of a necessity which gives us we powers utterly beyond the Constitution.
The Southern strength and purpose have not been aroused in vain. The root of the lack of appreciation is a lurking belief is the idea that the South is not united. Now, for all practical purposes, she is as be much a unit as we were in the Revolution. During
<c06>
thirty years the most bitter discussions have been carried on there, and the Southern people were educated to the height of hatred on this subject. And what do the so-called Unionists of Tennessee say! "We thought yon were an army of Abolitionists-we find you are not, and we are Unionists." An admission that they fought for slavery. Conquer South Carolina, and she will send the same men to Congress that she did before. Let peace come and slavery remain, and what is the result? Five or six years hence, after intriguing with foreign nations, these Southern Senators will rise again with more success than now. And, leaving that aside, a long we is full of danger for republican institutions.
We are told by some that the South does not mean anything, is not in earnest. It is like the old hulk that we were told was so useless, and which came out at last, and sank two frigates. The South is united and in earnest, and it is to the death. The slaves will be liberated by them before they give up the struggle. It is to-day a race between Abe <illegible> and Jeff. Davis which will arrive at emancipations first-and which does will succeed in the end.
Mr. Phillips occupied an hour and forty minutes is the delivery of his speech: it was a very able effort.
LETTER FROM MRS. FRANCES D.GAGE 
FRIEND GARRISON:
Having been absent from home for three weeks lecturing in the southern part of the State, I have lost the weekly reading of the Liberator, and now have the good things in the three last numbers to refresh me at once. I am glad that you are not as <illegible> as some of our Eastern friends over the war. What if the Government is standing still, the minds of the people are not. I sometimes feel that now, as in the olden time, "the Lord is hardening the hearts of the Pharaohs" of this nation, that they shall not the bondmen go free, that the people may have time to become converted to the great idea that underline the whole of this turmoil-"Salvation to the slave."
The feeling of the people in the towns and villages on the farms and in the shops, is intense against the "masterly inactivity" that prevails at Washington; and the gingerly manner in which our white-gloved military aristocracy handle the secession gentry is growing daily more offensive to those whose some and brothers are spilling their blood to subdue this rebellion. The women seem thoroughly aroused, and the chat around the fireside shows the progress of such slavery feeling in the few months past. Slavery and its consequences is the talk, and it is rarely that, you hear any one of the non-voting halt of humanity <illegible> the perpetuity of the peculiar institution- now and then one; but she is the minority, not the majority, in these regions. True, all have not given up to the full stature of immediate emancipation, but most are ready to declare that freedom most come in some shape, and to acknowledge that slavery is the corner-stone, of rebellion, and must be torn up ere the monstrous fabric can be utterly demolished In parlors and kitchens, at soirees and soldiers <illegible> socials, at mite societies and church festivals, this talk comes in to fill all the gaps in conversation. Rather let me say it is the conversation, and other things fill the gaps.
The remark often falls upon my ears, when some spirited woman has given utterance to her convictions on this all-absorbing subject-"Why, you are as rank as Garrison in your abolition," or "you are as fanatical as Wendell Phillips." Possibly she will repel, with indignation, the terrible impeachment and declare she is not an Abolitionist-not she, but she never did believe slavery was right, and she wishes that every slave in the United States was free this very minute, and if she was Abraham Lincoln it should be done double quick! Not an Abolitions The rank old pro-slavery men, who hated the slavery advocates a few months ago as a mad <illegible> hates the running stream, now declare that sometime must be done, and frankly admit that Emancipation but a question of time and of fact now.
A few days since, I listened to a speech from Southern Ohio Colonel, right from Gouley, Va. He had left his regiment, and was home recruiting. He had been an old "stump speaker," as we call the of the West. "Two years ago," said he you all remember, I used to make speeches, and other in this hall, too, for Stephen A. Douglas; and I took great pains to make you believe, for I believed it myself, that the negro was not a man, only a sort of superior beast, or ourang outang, or something that. But I tell you, boys, I have changed my mind. If you had been with me in Virginia, you would are been taught better, as I have been, and learned to know he was a man, and his freedom as well word fighting for as yours or mine. Yes, Sir, we were at mistaken. It's not the negro that can't take of himself, it's the master that can't live without him (Cheers.) Cheer away! I am telling you facts, and I ask you to join our company and march with us to the battle-field, and when we have conquered these hard-hearted rebels, and unchained every slave us shall only have atoned for the wrong we did as politicians in the days gone by." And this man was born in Kentucky, (though brought up in Ohio by pro-slavery parents,) and was making this speech to an as <illegible> sadly pro-slavery in sentiment and feeling before the war. Let us take heart! This war acts like a long and well kept up Protracted Meeting, and is daily bringing the hardened sinners to the anxious seat; the conviction is deep, and if the meeting is <illegible> kept up long enough, we may hope for thorough, conversions.
Columbus, O., March 4th. 1862.
LECTURES BY AARON M. POWELL 
NEW ROCHELLR, (N. Y.) 2d mo. 7th, 1862
DEAR GARRISON-Believing that a brief account of a few Anti-Slavery meetings, recently held West Chester county by Aaron M. Powell, accompanied by his wife, would be interesting to some <illegible> therefore endeavor to do it in as few words as possible. 
On the evenings of the 27th and 28th of month, two meetings were held in town of <illegible> Rochelle. In consequence of the inclemency of weather, these meetings were very small; were, however, a few intensely earnest listeners amongst the number was a score of fugitives. It was indeed a luxurious feast to them. But the community generally are in a very lukewarm state, sadly <illegible> with colorphobia. Very few are willing to sign an Anti-Slavery petition. It would seem as almost as if the stones were crying out against them, for the monument in this town, erected to the memories of Thomas Paine, has been covered all over with <illegible>sentences, selected from his political writings, and made to speak in favor of freedom and humanity. 
The following are extracts taken from the monument:-
"These are the times that try men's souls."
"The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot <illegible> in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country but he who stands it now deserves the thanks of man and woman." "Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheaply, we esteem too lightly: it is dearness only that gives everything its value. Heaven knows how to set a proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed, if so celestial an <illegible> as freedom should not be highly rated."
On the 1st and 2d of this month, two very good meetings were held at Chapaqua; in which the gospel of liberty and humanity was earnestly and eloquently preached to very attentive audiences make up mostly, I think, of liberals and non-professors The slave finds but few friends connected with the churches; their doors, with few exceptions, enclosed against him, and he and his friends knock vain far admission. I think I shall not be charged with a lack of charity if I pronounce such Christianity one of the greatest humbugs in the world.
Very cordially and truly thy friend.
JOSEPH CARPENTER.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GEN. FREMONT'S DEFENCE.
The New York Tribune March 2d publishers General Fremont's statement, presented to the Committee on the conduct of the war, in defence of his course while administering the military affairs of the Western Department. It, with documents, occupies five closely-printed pages of that journal, and of course we can only make a brief synopsis of so voluminous a document:-
"Gen Fremont was assigned to the command in July last. The Department then comprised, with Illinois, all the States and territories west of the Mississippi river to the Rocky Mountains, including New Mexico. He was furnished with no plan of a campaign. Full discretionary powers were given him. 'Of the Illinois contingent of troops, seven thousand were unarmed. Their cavalry was without horses or sabres, their artillery companies had hardly any guns, and were wholly without equipments.' He procured an order for seven thousand stand of arms. The order was countermanded on his arrival at New York. On his representation, Major Hagner was sent to New York to aid him in procuring what he deemed necessary. With this aid, Gen. Fremont arranged for arms and equipments to be sent to St. Louis sufficient for the complete equipment of an army corps of twenty-three thousand men.
"He received permission from Gen. Scott to take the field immediately, and reached his command at St. Louis on the 25th of July. Missouri throughout was then a rebellious State. Of the Federal troops, few were then in the field, the term of the three months,' men was then expiring, and the rebels had fifty thousand men on the southern frontier of the State. Gen. Pope was in northern Missouri, with nearly all the disposable Federal troops. Gen. Lyon was at Springfield with seven thousand eight hundred: Gen. Prentiss at Cairo with seven regiments, Lyon's and Prentiss' men were nearly all three months' men, whose term of enlistment was about expiring. Arms and money were wanted, but men offered in abundance. The three months' men had not been paid. The Home Guards were willing to remain in the service, but their families were destitute. Gen. Fremont wrote to the President, stating his difficulties, and informing him that he should peremptorily order the United States Treasurer there to pay over to his Paymaster General the money in his possession, sending a force at the same time to take the money. He received no reply, and assumed that his purpose was approved.
"Five days after he arrived at St. Louis, he went to Cairo, taking three thousand eight hundred men for its reinforcement. He says that Springfield was a week's march, and before he could have reached it, Cairo would have been taken by the rebels, and perhaps St. Louis. He returned to St. Louis on the 4th of August, having in the meantime ordered two regiments to the relief of Gen. Lyon, and set himself to work at St. Louis, to provide further reinforcements for him; but he claims that Lyon's defeat cannot be charged to his administration, and quotes from a letter from Gen. Lyon, dated on the 9th of August, expressing the belief that he would be compelled to retire. Also, from a letter written by Lyon's adjutant-general, in which he says, 'Gen. Fremont was not inattentive to the situation of Gen. Lyon's column.'
He shows that the purchase of the Austrian guns was a necessity. After the battle of Wilson's Creek, expecting the enemy would immediately advance, he fortified Girardeau, Ironton, Rolla and Jefferson City, making St. Louis his base, and leaving the army free for operations in the field, and claims that the necessity of these fortifications had been concurred in by officers of unimpeachable loyalty and capacity. With respect to the allegation that the work on the fortifications of St. Louis was done under his own personal direction, and the payments made on his personal order, he quotes from a letter of we believe a subsequent date(Sept.3) from Mr. Blair, telling him that Gen. Meigs wishes him to contract for certain guns personally, telling the contractor that his ordnance officer would pay for them, as showing that his power so to act was recognized.
"The cost of the works was about $300,000, and considering the time and manner in which they were built, General Fremont thinks the money was well applied. He explains his purchase of arms that had been sold by the Government, and which was one of the principal charges against him, we think satisfactorily.
"The turbulent condition of the State at the end of August induced him to proclaim martial law. Up to the 10th of September, he felt no alarm about the safety of Jefferson City or St. Louis. General Price was still upon the Upper Osage, and General Fremont was organizing a force to march against him to force him to retreat, or to cut off his communications with Arkansas. Want of transportation, arms and money delayed the movement. Paducah, Fort Holt, and Western Kentucky, where lodgment had been effected, and Northern Missouri, tasked his resources to the utmost. On the 11th of September, he heard that Price had arrived at Clinton; on the 12th, that Col. Mulligan had reached Lexington, and that Price was near Warrensburg, with a force of from five thousand to fifteen thousand men. On the 13th, two regiments were ordered to the relief of Lexington.
"On the 14th, General Sturgis was ordered to move with all speed upon Lexington; and on the same day, 'in the midst of all this demand for troops, he (I) was ordered by the Secretary of War and General Scott to send five thousand well-armed infantry to Washington without a moment's delay.' He sent them. He had at that time a total force of nearly sixty thousand men. Here follows a remonstrance against expecting any General to be always successful, and an averment that General and great success had resulted from his administration, and that he was on the eve of yet greater things when he was relieved of his command.
"The documents that accompany General Fremont's defence are very numerous. They throw considerable light upon the internal working of the administration of the department. On the 13th of June, General McClellan telegraphed General Lyon as follows: "If you wish more troops from Illinois, inform me at Cincinnati. Don't telegraph direct to any of my subordinates, unless danger is imminent.' Then follow a number of dispatches between various officers detailing their wants, movements and intentions. All General McClellan's dispatches are fine specimens of compression and decision. In a dispatch from Booneville, dated July 2, Gen. Lyon urges the suppression of the State Journal, and says that the Union cause is suffering from too much indulgence.
"On the 6th of July, Gen. Harding telegraphs to the Secretary of War, urging the necessity of cavalry regiments for prairie service, and saying that much has been lost for want of them. About the 15th of July, the various Generals inquire of each other about the truth of the report that Gen. Fremont had been appointed to command them. They all appear to be working together harmoniously, cheerfully and vigorously. On the 26th of July, Mr. Blair telegraphs Fremont from Washington that he can get no attention to Missouri or Western matters from the authorities, and adding: "You will have to do the best you can, and take all needful responsibility to defend and protect the people over whom you are specially set."
"Gen. Lyon complains frequently that his men have not been paid, that their clothes are worn out, and that they are becoming dispirited on account of the neglect. On the 6th August, the President's private secretary telegraphs to Gen. Fremont, "The President desires to know briefly the situation of affairs in the region of Cairo; please answer." We do not find that this inquiry was answered by the General.
"Some remarkable communications from the Hon. Montgomery Blair to Gen. Fremont appear in this publication. It is very clear that at the dates of these communications, Mr. Blair was Fremont's warm friend, and he indulges in comments upon 'the authorities' at Washington that we feel sure are unfair, and certainly are not creditable to the writer. In a letter dated August 2d, Mr. Blair says:
'Chase has more horror of seeing Treasury notes below par than of seeing soldiers killed, and there fore has held back too much, I think. I don't believe at all in that style of managing the Treasury. It depends on the war, and it is better to get ready and beat the enemy by selling stocks at fifty per cent, discount than wait and negotiate and lose a battle. I have got you a splendid officer for your Navy Department, and guns. He will be en route for you in a day or two, when he will be posted up and call for what you want. You will have credit at the Navy Department when you get him under you.
'You must not expect too much of me in the Cabinet. I have, as you know, very little influence, and even now, when the policy I have advocated from the first is being inaugurated, it does not seem to bring me any great power over the Administration. This, I can see, is partly my own fault. I have been too obstreperous, perhaps, in my opposition, and men do not like those who have exposed their mistakes beforehand, and taunt them with them afterward. The main difficulty, however, is with Lincoln himself. He is of the Whig school, and that brings him naturally not only to incline to the feeble policy of Whigs, but to give his confidence to such advisers. It costs me a great deal of labor to get anything done, because of the inclination of mind on the part of the President or leading members of the Cabinet, including Chase, who never voted a Democratic ticket in his life. But you have the people at your back, and I am doing all I can to cut red tape, and get things done. I will be more civil and patient than heretofore, and see if that won't work.'"
In conclusion, Gen. Fremont says-"I do not feel that in any case I overstepped the authority intended to be confided to me. Myself, and the officers and men acting with me, were actuated solely by a desire to serve the country and I feel assured that this is realized by the people of the West, among whom we were acting." His defence is triumphant.
<c02>
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT.
PROPOSAL TO AID THE STATES IN THE ABOLISHMENT OF SLAVERY.
WASHINGTON, March 6th. The President to-day transmitted to Congress the following message:-
Fellow-citizens of the Senate and House of representatives:
I recommend the adoption of a joint resolution by your honorable bodies, which shall be substantially as follows:-
Resolved, That the United States ought to co-operate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State pecuniary aid to be used by such State in its discretion to compensate for the inconveniences, public and private, produced by such change of system.
If the proposition contained in the resolution does not meet the approval of Congress and the country, there is the end; but if it does command such approval, I deem it of importance that the States and people immediately interested should be at once distinctly notified of the fact, so that they may begin to consider whether to accept or reject it. The Federal Government would find its highest interest in such a measure, as one of the most efficient means of self-preservation. The leaders of the existing insurrection entertain the hope that the Government will ultimately be forced to acknowledge the independence of some part of the disaffected region, and that all the slave States north of such parts will then say, "The Union for which we have struggled being already gone, we now choose to go with the Southern section." To deprive them of this hope substantially ends the rebellion, and the initiation of emancipation completely deprives them of it, as to all the States initiating it. The point is, not that all the States tolerating slavery would very soon, if at all, initiate emancipation, but that while the offer is equally made to all, the more northern shall, by such initiation, make it certain to the more southern, that in no event will the former ever join the latter in their proposed Confederacy, because, in my judgment, gradual and not sudden emancipation is better for all. In the mere financial or pecuniary view, any member of Congress, with the census tables and the Treasury reports before him, can readily see for himself how very soon the current expenditures of this war would purchase, at a fair valuation, all the slaves in any named State. Such a proposition on the part of the General Government sets up no claim of a right by Federal authority to interfere with slavery within State limits, referring as it does the absolute control of the subject in each ease to the State and its people immediately interested. It is proposed as a matter of perfectly free choice with them. In the annual message of last December, I thought fit to say, "The Union must be preserved, and hence all indispensable means must be employed." I said this not hastily, but deliberately. War has been and continues to be an indispensable means to this end. A practical re acknowledgment of the National authority would render the war unnecessary, and it would at once cease. If, however, resistance continues, the war must also continue, and it is impossible to foresee all the incidents which may attend and all the ruin which may follow it. Such as may seem indispensable, or may obviously promise great efficiency towards ending the struggle, must and will come. The proposition now made, though an offer only, I hope it may be esteemed no offence to ask whether the pecuniary consideration tendered would not be of more value to the States and private persons concerned than are the institution and property in it in the present aspect of affairs. While it is true that the adoption of the proposed resolution would be merely initiatory, and not within itself a practical measure, it is recommended in the hope that it would soon lead to important results.
In full view of my great responsibility to my God and my country, I earnestly beg the attention of Congress and the people to the subject.
(Signed)
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
In the House, on Friday, Mr. Roscoe Conkling, of New York, asked leave to offer the following:-
Resolved, That the United States ought to cooperate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State pecuniary aid to be used by such State in its discretion to compensate for the inconveniences, public and private, produced by such change of system.
The rules were suspended for that purpose, 86 against 35.
The motion to postpone the consideration of the resolution was spiritedly discussed, but without coming to a decision, the House adjourned.
The next day, the House refused to postpone until Monday, and, after further debate, the resolution was passed-88 against 31.
The Emancipation Message of the President is regarded among the Foreign Ministers as an epoch, and calculated to produce a profound impression in Europe. It was made the subject of dispatches from all the Legations by the last steamer.
A LETTER FROM SENATOR SUMNER.
WM. M. WERMERSKIRCH, Esq., Corresponding Secretary of the German Republican Central Committee, New York.
SIR,-I have had the honor to receive the resolution unanimously passed by the German Republican Central Committee of New York, declaring their adhesion to certain principles presented by me to the Senate on the relation between the United States and the Territory once occupied by certain States, and now usurped by pretended Governments, without constitutional or legal right.
I pray you to let the Committee know my gratitude for the prompt and generous support which they have given to these principles. The Germans, throughout our long contest with slavery, have been not only earnest and true, but they have always seen the great question in its true character and importance. Without them our cause would not have triumphed at the last Presidential election. It is only natural, therefore, that they should continue to guard and advance this cause. But where so many persons fail and hesitate, it is most gratifying to find a Committee so distinguished as yours ready again to enter into the contest for Human Rights.
Accept the assurance of the respect with which I have the honor to be, sir, faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
Senate Chamber, Feb. 25, 1862.
GERRIT SMITH AT WASHINGTON. The Washington correspondent of the Dover Morning Star says:-
"We have had a lecture from Gerrit Smith, the philanthropist. He maintains that the war, as now conducted, is a war against the Constitution, the negro, freedom, and God-that, if we wish to succeed, we must make it a war against the rebels alone. We must stop taking counsel of Kentucky. This is a war for slavery; and slavery had blinded the eyes of Kentucky. If it were a whiskey insurrection, we would not go to distillers for counsel. If it were a war for polygamy, it would not do to trust too much to the advice of Brigham Young. If it were an anti-slavery insurrection, Kentucky would be qualified to judge. But as it was a pro-slavery insurrection, the Government should ask counsel of such clear eyed Abolitionists as William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and Frederick Douglass. In conclusion, he exhorted the Government to take counsel of the whole nation and of God." 
THE PRINCIPIA. This able abolition journal, edited by Rev. William Goodell, has been suspended for a few weeks, in order to start anew on a permanent basis, and in an enlarged form. The next number is to appear the first week in April. The death of Mr. Samuel Wilde, the former proprietor, who always stood ready to meet deficiencies, has rendered it necessary to make the paper self-supporting, and for this in addition of two thousand subscribers is indispensable. Mr. J. W. Alden, formerly publisher of the Emancipator, has now become proprietor of the Principia, and will publish it at the cost to subscribers of $2 in advance. It is a good family paper of large size, and will contain the usual variety of miscellaneous reading for the household, in addition to the antislavery articles and the news. Dr. Cheever will be a contributor. We wish our contemporary the fullest success. Published at 339 Pearl street, New York.- State League.
THE INDEPENDENT SHUT OUT OF CAMP. We have received a copy of the Daily Eagle, published at Grand Rapids, Mich., containing a statement by a committee of the Sabbath-school of the Congregational church of that place, of which the following is the substance:-
"That in June last, this school contributed $22.20, and forwarded it to the publisher of the New York Independent, with directions to furnish as many copies of that paper for four months as the money would pay for; that the papers were sent and regularly received at the headquarters of the 3d Michigan Regiment on the Potomac; that Col. Daniel McConnell, then commanding, declared the independent an 'abolition paper,' and ordered the copies received to be withheld from the men; that the soldiers did not, therefore, receive them, as you designed they should."
REFUGEES FROM NORTH CAROLINA. The Petersburg (Va.) Express says:- "Refugees from North Carolina, and even from Norfolk, have been arriving in this city for several days past in considerable numbers. On Sunday some six or eight wagons, filled with negroes and their effects, belonging to citizens of Edenton, who have been compelled to flee for safety from that place, reached Bland ford. We presume there must have been at least fifty negroes with these wagons. We have also seen and conversed with several refugees from Elizabeth City and other points on the coast of North Carolina."
<c03>
DESPERATE NAVAL FIGHT IN HAMPTON ROADS.
The U. S. Frigate Congress Captured and Burned, and the Cumberland Sunk, with 200 of her Crew Drowned, by the Iron-Clad Rebel Steamer Merrimac-Opportune Arrival of the Ericsson Marine Battery "Monitor," and her Victorious Engagement.
FORTRESS MONROE, March 8. The dullness of Old Point was startled at 10 o'clock to-day by the announcement that a mysterious vessel, supposed to be the Merrimac, looking like a submerged house, with the roof only above water, was moving down from Norfolk by the channel in front of Sewell's Point batteries. Signal guns were also fired by the Cumberland and Congress to notify the Minnesota, St. Lawrence and Roanoke of approaching danger, and all was excitement in and about Fortress Monroe.
There was nothing protruding above the water but a flagstaff flying the rebel flag, and a short smokestack. She moved along slowly, and turning into the channel leading to Newport News, steamed directly for the frigates Cumberland and Congress, which were lying at the mouth of James river. As soon as she came within range of the Cumberland, the latter opened on her with her heavy guns, but the balls struck and glanced off, having no more effect on her than peas from a popgun. Her ports were all closed, and she moved on in silence, but with a full bead of steam.
In the meantime, as the Merrimac was approaching our two frigates on one side, the iron-clad steamers Yorktown and Jamestown came down James river, and engaged our frigates on the other side. The batteries at Newport News also opened on the Jamestown and Yorktown, and did all in their power to assist the Cumberland and Congress, which, being sailing vessels, were at the mercy of the approaching steamers.
The Merrimac in the meantime kept steadily on her course, and slowly approached the Cumberland, when she and the Congress, at the distance of 100 yards, rained full broadsides on the iron-clad monster. The shot took no effect, glancing upward and flying off, having only the effect to check her progress for the moment. After receiving the first broadside of the two frigates, she ran into the Cumberland, striking her about midships, and literally laying open her sides. She then drew off, tired a broadside into the disabled ship, and again dashed against her with her iron-clad prow, and, knocking in her side, left her to sink, while she engaged the Congress, which lay about a quarter of a mile distant.
The Congress in the meantime kept up a sharp engagement with the Yorktown and Jamestown, and having no regular crew on board of her, and seeing the hopelessness of resisting the iron-clad steamer, at once struck her colors. Her crew had been discharged several days before, and three companies of the Naval Brigade had been put on board temporarily, until she could be relieved by the St. Lawrence, which was to have gone up on Monday to take her position as one of the blockading vessels of James river. On the Congress striking her colors, the Jamestown approached, and took from on board her all her officers as prisoners, but allowed the crew to escape in boats. The vessel being thus cleared was fired by the rebels.
The Merrimac and her two iron-clad companions then opened with shot and shell on Newport News batteries, which briskly returned the fire.
In the meantime, the steam frigate Minnesota having partly got up steam, was being towed to the relief of the two frigates, but did not get up until too late to assist them. She was also followed up by the frigate St. Lawrence, which was taken in tow by several of the small harbor steamers.
In the meantime, night approached, though the moon shone brightly, and nothing but the occasional flashing of the guns could be seen. The Merrimac was believed to be aground, as she remained stationary at the distance of a mile from the Minnesota, making no attempt to attack or molest her. The Minnesota and St. Lawrence were both aground, at the same time, on Sewell's Point.
It was the intention of the Minnesota, with her picked and gallant crew, to run into close quarters with the Merrimac, avoid her iron prow, and board her. This the Merrimac seemed not inclined to give her an opportunity to do, being afraid to have the Minnesota crew approach her at close quarters when aground.
The rebel battery at Pig Point was enabled to join in the combined attack on the Minnesota, and several guns were fired at her from Sewell's Point, as she went up. None of them, however, struck her, but one or two of them passed over her.
BALTIMORE, March 9. The boat left Old Point at 8 o'clock last night. About half an hour after she left the wharf, the iron-clad Ericsson steamer Monitor passed her going in, towed by a large steamer. The Monitor undoubtedly reached Fortress Monroe by 9 o'clock, and immediately went into service.
ANOTHER DISPATCH. The Monitor arrived at 10 last night, and went immediately to the protection of the Minnesota, lying aground just below Newport News.
At 7 A. M. to-day, the Merrimac, accompanied by two wooden steamers, the Yorktown and Jamestown, and several tugs, stood out toward the Minnesota, and opened fire. The Monitor met them at once and returned the fire, when the enemy's vessel retired, except the Merrimac. The two iron-clad vessels fought, part of the time touching each other, from 8 A. M. until noon, when the Merrimac retreated. Whether she is injured or not, it is impossible to say. One account, however, says she was in a sinking condition.
Lieut. J. M. Worden, who commanded the Monitor, handled her with great skill, assisted by Chief Engineer Stoners.
The Monitor is uninjured, and ready at any moment to repel another attack.
The Norfolk Day Book contains a highly colored account of Saturday's fight, and pays a great compliment to the bravery of the crew of the Cumberland, and admits that some of the shot from her entered the Merrimac. One shell killed 17 men, and wounded Capt. Buchanan, who subsequently died.
WASHINGTON, March 10.-THE CAPTURE OF THE GEORGIA FORTS. An official despatch from Commodore Dupont, dated Flag Ship Mohican, harbor Fernandina, Florida, March 4, 1862, says-
"I had the honor to inform you, in my last despatch, that the expedition for Fernandina was equipped, and waiting only for suitable weather to sail from Port Royal. I have now the pleasure to inform you that I am in full possession of Cumberland Island and the Sound of Fernandina and Amelia Island, and the river and town of St. Mary's.
We came to anchor in Cumberland Sound at half-past 10, on the morning of the 2d, to make an examination of the channel and wait for the tide. Here I learned from a " contraband," who had been picked up at sea by Commander Lanier, and from the neighboring residents on Cumberland Island, that the rebels had abandoned in haste the whole of the defences of Fernandina, retreating from Amelia Island, carrying with them such of their munitions as their precipitate flight would allow."
The Evacuation of Manassas - Rebel Army in Full Retreat for Richmond. The following special despatch, dated Washington, March 11th, appears in the New York. Herald:-
"Great excitement exists here over the news of the evacuation of Manassas. No details of the occupation of the place by the Federal troops has as yet been received. The rebels had all precipitately fled before our forces took possession. All their fortifications were abandoned, as were those at Centreville and on the Lower Potomac. The rebel army is in full retreat toward Richmond."
Gen. McClellan has taken up his headquarters at Fairfax Court House.
Col. Averill, with a large body of cavalry, entered the rebel works at Manassas Junction, and bivouacked for the night amidst the ruins of the rebel stronghold.
Log huts ample to accommodate 30,000 troops remain. Heaps of dead horses cover the fields in the vicinity. Log huts are strewn all along between Centreville and Manassas. The railroad track is undisturbed, except the bridges. The stone bridge across Bull Run, on the Warrenton turnpike, is blown up, as also the bridge across Cog Run between Centreville and Manassas.
Everything at Manassas indicates a precipitate retreat of the rebels. All the log huts are standing and an immense number of canvass tents. Some caissons were found, but no guns. Piles of bullets and cartridges were left in the tents, and immense quantities of quartermasters' stores. In one place were discovered about 30,000 bushels of corn which had been set fire to, and which was still shouldering. The troops found abundant rebel trophies, pack-saddles army orders, muskets, revolvers, bowie-knives, letters &c. Over 1000 pack-saddles were found, all new, and marked C. S. A.
The people of the vicinity state, that prior to the evacuation, there were 100,000 rebel troops at Manassas and Centreville.
Severe Battle in Arkansas-The Rebel Army of the Southwest Defeated. ST. LOUIS, March 10.-The following is an official despatch to Major General McClellan:-
"The army of the Southwest, under Gen. Curtis after three days' hard fighting, has gained a most glorious victory over the combined forces of Van Dorn, McCulloch, Price and McIntosh. Our loss in killed and wounded is estimated at 1000. That of the enemy is still larger. Guns, flags, provisions, &c., were captured in large quantities.
Our cavalry are in pursuit of the flying enemy.
(Signed)
H. W. HALLECK, Major General."
<c04>
SPRINGFIELD, (Mo.) March 10.
A messenger, who arrived at three o'clock this morning, reports that the battle at Pea Ridge lasted from Thursday night or Friday morning to Saturday evening, and that our loss was about 450 killed and wounded. The rebel loss was about 1000 killed and wounded, and 1000 taken prisoners. Among them was Charles McBae, of an Arkansas regiment.
The attack was made from the north and west, our army being completely surrounded. Generals Van Dorn, Price, McCulloch and McIntosh are reported mortally wounded. The attack from the rear was made by Gen. McCulloch, and was met by Gen. Sigel, who routed him completely. His corps scattered in wild confusion. We hare also captured a large amount of stores, cannon, teams and ammunition.
This is the bloodiest conflict that has taken place since the war commenced.
The Thirteenth Massachusetts Regiment have captured Martinsburg, Va., which is a large place with some good houses, fire or six hotels, and a very large court house and jail. The rebels have destroyed an immense amount of property in this region, have torn up the railroad track, destroyed machine shops, &c., &c.
Col. Geary left Lovettsville on Friday night, and marching through Wheatland and Waterford, put the rebel forces to flight. Early the next morning he took unresisted possession of Leesburg, which they considered one of their greatest strongholds, and the Stars and Stripes now wave over the town and the surrounding forts. The rebel army, under Gen. Hill, fell back towards Middleburg.
Brunswick (Georgia) has been evacuated by the rebels. They are known to have had at least 20 heavy guns there, which, it is believed, have been sent to strengthen Savannah.
A despatch from Atlanta, Ga., says that the Federal troops have possession of Murfreesboro, and that Gen. A. Sydney Johnston has retreated to Decatur, Ala.
New Madrid, Mo., has been completely invested by our forces. The rebels hare between 5,000 and 10,000 men, and four gunboats. Several of our men have been killed by shells from the gunboats.
On the line of the Potomac, our gunboats on Sunday captured the battery on Cockpit point. The rebels burnt their tents, the steamer Page and all the other craft in the creek.
Gen. Hooker reports, from Budd's ferry, that all the enemy's batteries in front of his lines are abandoned, and their guns spiked. This raises the so-called blockade of the Potomac.
At the recent engagement between the U.S. gunboats and a rebel battery on the Tennessee river, it is reported that the Confederates lost about twenty killed, and two hundred wounded. The enemy have fallen back three miles from the river. The rebel force engaged in the fight was 1,000 infantry, 500 cavalry, and six pieces of artillery.
The Memphis Appeal advocates the burning of the city as the last resort, but the Mayor has issued a proclamation tat any person detected in setting fire to houses should be immediately hung.
Gen. Beauregard had left Jackson to take command at Island No. 10. A large number of transports were lying at the foot of the island to take off the troops in case of defeat.
Thirty cannon have already been found at Columbus, which had been thrown away by the rebels in evacuating the place.
Among the rebel prisoners captured at Fort Donelson, and now at Evansville, Ind., is Col. J. B. Clay, grandson of the great Henry Clay. He is said to have been one of the staff of Gen. Buckner.
On Thursday of last week, an attempt was discovered to blow up the Chain Bridge at Washington. Eighty pounds of powder were found, with fuses, placed under the span of the bridge, so that the explosion would destroy the fabric.
The village of Harper's Ferry is half burned, scorched and blackened by the hand of secession, and is almost deserted by its inhabitants. Before General Banks came, it was said there were but six families in the town. Even our men, who spent some time here last year, could hardly recognize it as the same place.
Brig. Gen. Jones has been placed in command of the rebel force at Pensacola, Gen. Bragg having taken charge of the defence of Mobile.
FEARFUL LOSS IN ONE REGIMENT. The 11th Illinois (in McClernand's division) went into battle only 450 strong-the regiment being weak, and many being absent on detached duty. They came out with 120 fit for service-330 being killed or wounded.
TEXAS JOURNALS. A year ago there were sixty papers published in Texas. There are now only ten.
REBEL INDIGNATION AT NEW ORLEANS. The New Orleans papers are full of fight and defiance under the late adverse news:
The Delta has a leader headed "The Only Issue," which talks very plainly to men who feel shaky about their property. They must defend it with the sword, and drive back the foe who is now waging war for gain, or they will be reduced to a condition tenfold worse than slavery. The Crescent concludes an article on the state of affairs with these words:-
"We are glad to note that the disasters, instead of dispiriting our people, have aroused them to the highest pitch of warlike excitement. Our whole population are eager for the fray, and all they want is a leader and arms. They are resolved to defend their gloriously beautiful land to the last, and will do so. The same spirit, we are sure, animates the entire people of the Confederate States, and when they torn out en masse, as they shortly will, the enemy will find an unconquerable foe to encounter. The possession of the leading points will not give them the country. The occupation of the principal cities of the South will eventuate in no lasting advantage to them.
Our people will retire into the interior, and in their mountains and swamps they will maintain a warfare which must ultimately prove successful."
SUBJUGATION.-[From the Richmond Dispatch.]-We again reiterate what we have a hundred times said, that the subjugation of the South is impossible, and we would hold to the some conviction if every Southern city in the Mississippi Valley and on the Atlantic seaboard, were in Yankee hands. The South is an agricultural people, not dependent upon its cities, and its vitality and strength would be untouched, if each of them should fall at once into Yankee hands, or be swallowed up by an earthquake. We are not quite sure but that if the government should take the proper precaution to remove the munitions of war from its cities, and to keep the public stores from falling into the enemy's hands, it would even so much as weaken, in any considerable degree, its military operations, if the enemy should be permitted to seize and occupy a dozen of these imaginary centres of trade and power, the cities of the South, not one of which, happily, has any more influence on the power, prosperity, and the morals of the country, than a wart on the face of a giant.
REBEL BRUTALITY. The returned prisoners from Richmond report that eight or ten of their fellow-sufferers were shot for the offence of trying to get a little fresh air by going to the windows. What but slavery could inspire such infernal cruelty? Can an instance be named where any thing like it has been perpetrated at the North on a Southern prisoner? The most active of the rebel Thugs, in instigating barbarities against the prisoners, appears to hare been Col. Todd, brother of Mrs. President Lincoln. Let not this drunken and cowardly rascal be forgotten in the day of reckoning. His severities called forth the indignant remonstrances even of his own superiors, and he was finally removed from his post.-Roxbury Journal.
BARBARITY OF THE REBELS TO THEIR WOUNDED. An officer of a Massachusetts Regiment writes from Camp Foster, Roanoke Island, Feb. 15th, that the rebels dug holes into which they threw their dead. In one hole, "forty-five bodies were found, some of whom had wounds that could not have proved mortal, and it is the opinion of our surgeons that they were thrown in alive, and perished from the barbarity of their friends.
Jeff. Davis, in his last message, talks of the "malignity and barbarity of the Northern States in the prosecution of the war." A singular commentary on this brazen declaration is supplied by the dispatch of Gen. Halleck, announcing that forty-two of our men have been poisoned by eating food which had been drugged and left in their way by the rebels of Arkansas. The Thugs of India could not conduct & war in a more brutal and cowardly manner than this. There is nothing like it on record in the modern warfare of civilized nations.
The Richmond Dispatch calls attention to mysterious writings on the wall, indicating that Union conspirators are at work. Among these writings are the following: "Attention, Union men!" "Watch and wait!" "The Union forever!" "The day is dawning-the hour of deliverance approaches!"
It was these significant announcements that caused the arrest of John Minor Botts and twenty other respected citizens of wealth, character and position, and the proclamation of martial law.
The Richmond Dispatch urges summary measures for checking the progress of treason, and advocates, the arrest and execution of the conspirators.
Col. Corcoran and Col. Wilcox and other Federal prisoners hare reached Richmond. There was a great panic at Richmond, which was caused by the recent defeats of the rebels. The leading traitors exhibited the greatest trepidation.
<c05>
MORE SLAVE-CATCHING BY THE SECOND OHIO CAVALRY- How a Slave was Delivered to his Secession Master, and How he Didn't Keep Him. The following spirited sketch (says the Cleveland Leader) is form a private in the Second Ohio Cavalry to his mother. It is dated Platte City, Missouri, February 17th. It proves the truth of the charges that have been made of fugitives being returned by the commanding officers, and then-to the honor of the Reserve, and of the brave boys who accomplished the feat-tells how a slave was rescued from his inhuman master, and sent to a land of freedom. We omit names and some other details that might get the writer into trouble with his officers if published:-
"We had a big time the other night. A darkey ran away from his master, and came to Company-. He was a good fellow, and we were fellow, and we were going to take him with us to Fort Scott; but along came his old master with and order from the Colonel to hunt for his nigger. The Colonel was not to blame; he had to obey his General. The old sinner had three men with him. We knew he was secesh, and we were awful mad. The darkey said; 'Don't let him take me; he will kill me.' Our officers were mad too. When night came, one of our best boys came to me and said; 'Yankee, that slave must set Leavenworth to-night.' I was in for it After roll, at 9 o'clock, we started. There were three of us. The boys' names were-,and-,and myself.
The boys were just the right kind for such a thing-big, strong, and good pluck. I am not very large or very stout, but I like that kind of work. It was four miles to the old sinner's house; we went across lots to avoid the patrol. We got there about 11 o'clock. There was a light in the house; we went up and looked through the window. What a sight! three men, beside the master, has the slave stripped and tied, and one of the men whipping him with a cowhide!
Mother, I has read of such things, but never saw them before. It does not come home to read of them as it does to see them. There stood the slave, with his bare back bleeding-an awful sight!
We rain in and C. told him to stop that. The master said that it was his nigger, and the would lick him when he wanted to, and he hit the slave again. We had our revolvers out and ready. C. Knocked the old fellow down with the butt of his revolver. The other men never said a word.
We took the slave down, and had him put his clothes on. The boys stayed and watched, and as I knew the road to Leavenworth, I went part of the way with him, and showed him the way to go. The boys waited till I came back."
GEN. MANSFIELD AND FUGITIVE SLAVES. General Mansfield, who, in June last, forbade negroes to come within his lines, has entirely changed his opinions concerning the slaves, as appears from a letter of his which we published the other day, and to which we now again refer, recapitulating the chief facts. It seems that the General in command of the Department of Virginia sent down to Newport News, Where Gen. Manfield was stationed, for the purpose of collecting the money the contrabands had earned since they had come under the protection of the Union soldiers. Gen. Mansfield resisted the payment of this money, and, in reply to a Commissioner sent down to make inquiries, sent the letter to which reference is made. He says that the negroes can be divided into four classes: Those who are abandoned by their masters; those who have abandoned their masters; those who have been set at work for the Rebels against the United States Government; and free negroes. The question arising what to do with them, Gen. Mansfield distinctly lays it down as his opinion that these negroes are not property, but persons held to labor in certain States, nowhere else; they are not bound to labor to the United States; consequently are not slaves to the United States; consequently the United States Government is not compelled to hold them as slaves, nor has it the right to take their wages, or prevent them from going whither they will. It is clear, also, says Gen. Manfield, that these negroes are not prisoners of war, for they have not been taken in arms; on the contrary, they have run away to escape the necessity of bearing arms against the United States. Therefore he thinks and declares that all the earnings of the slaves should be paid to them, or taken care of for their use, and that they should be allowed to go about unrestrained of their freedom.-New York Tribune.
MCCLELLAN ON SLAVERY. The Washington correspondent of the New York Post makes the following interesting statement:-
"I was yesterday informed by one of General McClellan's most intimate friends, that he approves I most heartily the President's emancipation proclamation, and that he has been very much misunderstood by the country generally as to his views on the slavery question, as it connects itself with the war.
This friend asserts that General McClellan believes that the country will see no lasting peace until slavery is destroyed, and that he is not a pro-slavery man, as some persons have stated. It is further said of him, that as a soldier he has been careful of his words on all such matters, but that he has intended that no officer of the Potomac army shall ever return a fugitive slave, and that the few isolated cases which have occurred have not met with his approbation.
That he ordered the arrest of Gen. Stone is a well known fact, and it is further known that when his attention has been repeatedly called to the fact that fugitive slaves were in the camps of the government troops across the river, he has replied that the commander of the army could not recognize any person as a slave."
THE CASE OF GEN. STONE. The Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, under date of Feb. 27, says:-
"The Committee on the Conduct of the War have bad before them Messrs. Paul Revere, Raymond, Col. Lee, and others of the returned prisoners from Richmond, who were taken at Ball's Bluff. Their testimony as to the position of the enemy, their numbers, and the locality of the ground, is highly important.
"Their conviction is unanimous, that had Gen. Stone moved up the men he had crossed at Edward's Ferry and attacked the rebels in the rear, he could have whipped them and drove them beyond Leesburg in less than an hour from the time the men left Edward's Ferry, only distant some three miles, and over a good ground unobstructed.
"Col. Lee says they were taunted by the rebels with having been 'sold,' but he never knew that any men had crossed at Edward's Ferry until be had returned here from Richmond."
FREMONT'S RE-APPOINTMENT! President Lincoln has issued a War Order, dated March 11, in which it is
"Ordered, That the country west of the Department of the Potomac, and east of the Department of the Mississippi, be a military department to be called a Mountain Department, and that the same be commanded by Major General Fremont."
MEMORIALS OF JOHN BROWN OF CHARLESTOWN, VIRGINIA. The troops are distributed through the town in halls and empty houses. A part of the Massachusetts Second occupy the court house where John Brown was tried. On the walls where secession has drawn an eagle only to deface it and inscribe " death before dishonor," are written the names of the present occupants from Lynn and Salem and Boston.
A Lynn shoemaker sits in the seat of the judge. The jury-box is filled with Salem sailors, and men from all Massachusetts form the audience. We have men on guard who will not alarm the country if a cow approaches. What citizen of Virginia would ever have imagined this two years ago; and who shall say that this is not a righteous retribution upon the rebels for their treatment of John Brown?
SECESH IN NEW JERSEY. The Bridgeton {N. J.) Pioneer learns that, at a meeting about four miles from that place, the following question was debated: "Have the Southern States a reasonable right to secede?" It was voted upon by the audience, and decided in the affirmative-forty-two to six. The meeting was largely attended, many not voting on either side. After voting in favor of secession, they retired from the building, and gave cheers for the rebel Jeff. Davis.
WHY THE REBELS APPOINTED A FAST DAY. In Jeff. Davis's proclamation appointing a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer, he assigns this curious reason, among others:-
"The termination of the provisional government offers a fitting occasion again to present ourselves in humiliation."
Once in a while even a rebel can speak the truth. Davis was quite right in asserting that the South had reason to humiliate itself over the deeds of its so-called "provisional government."-N. Y. Post.
The steamship Mississippi, while on her way to Ship Island, with Gen. Butler and staff on board, ran into Frying Pan Shoals, in Wilmington harbor, staving a large hole in her bow. She was hauled off by the Mount Vernon, and has proceeded to Port Royal, where she will probably be repaired.
The army of the Potomac, by order at the President, has been divided into five army corps, the first commanded by Major General McDowell, and the others by Brigadiers General Sumner, Heintzelman, Keyes and Major General Banks.
A brief despatch from Denver City states that a desperate battle, lasting all day, took place on the 21st ult., at Valverde, ten miles south of Fort Craig, New Mexico. Both parties claim the victory. The loss is great on both sides. Capt. McRea, of the U. S. artillery, and every man of his command, were killed at their post, and their cannon taken by the rebels.
<c06>
VALLANDIGHAM. The rebel newspapers down in Secessia are warmly complimenting Vallandigham for his speeches is Congress, and his opposition to the Lincoln administration, The Breckinridge organs, North have the same opinion of the man, and the votes of their representatives in Congress are always found to coincide with his. The race of doughfaces is not yet extinct.
"HIS MARK." A correspondent of the New Haven Journal, in a letter from Roanoke Island to that paper, says that "in one company of the Wise Leglon, out of sixty-four men but seven could sign their names, and in another of the same legion, out of fifty-eight men but five were able to accomplish it." Yet these are the men who scorn our free, educated Northern mechanics.
A SLAVE YOKE. A slave yoke, whit two <illegible> like prongs to hinder runaways from getting through the bushes, the whole contrivance weighing five pounds, is now on exhibition at the Boston Union Mission Fair. It was taken from the neck of fugitive last September, on the Maryland side of the Upper Potomac, by a member of the First Massachusetts regiment, after two hours hard filling of the iron collar.
The Philadelphia Saturday Post Thinks the General were have to thank for the recent victories is General Activity.
Old Toucey, that Yankee tool of the South, had the impudence to make a speech at a celebration of the 221 of February, at Hartford. He would have been better placed with Floyd or Cobb, his associates in the Buchanan Cabinet for the destruction of the Union.
The rebel accounts of the fight at Roanoke Island told in glowing language that the celebrated Richmond Blues stood to their post till alt were cut down but seven; but we now know that they all ran away but seven, who were killed wounded. A fair specimen of Southern exaggeration.
With most impious thought and feeling, the President of the Southern Confederacy appeals to the Supreme Providence for His support. A government founded upon fraud, falsehood and robbery appeals to God for his protection! The Inaugural is a piece of brazen and foolish temerity. What be says, he does not believe in, and what he believes in, he does not say.
Some editors seem still to entertain and try to spread the delusion, that the Union can be reorganized on a firm basis, and yet retain the disorganizing element slavery. It can't be done. As well expect fire and gunpowder to come together without an explosion.-Northampton Free Press.
John Stuart Mills, the able English writer political economy, characterizes the rebellion of the South as "treason of the worst sort-a revolt against the highest form of collective authority-an attempt to tear up the very basis of legitimate power." He also gives the English sympathizers with secession a good thrashing.
N. T. Gray, of Washburn, has recently lost, by diptheria, five children out of a family of six.
Two were buried in one grave the same day.
James Redpath announces that the Haytian Government have concluded an arrangement with an, English company, by which a line of steamers is to be at once established between New York and Port-au-Prince for the conveyance of our emigrants. These steamers will start once a month. The first will leave New York on the twentieth of March. A colony of 100 will be ready for her.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE. The closing exercises of the fourteenth annual term took place at the College, Springfield street, in this city, last week. The exercises were opened with prayer by Rev. Dr. Barrows. The President, Micah Dyer, Jr., conferred the degree of M. D. upon the following named graduates:-Alida Cornelia Avery, Lebanon N. Y.; Mary Green Baker Middle borough; Helen Morton, Plymouth; Lucy Ellen Sewall, Melrose; Helen Baker Worthing, New Bedford. Miss Avery and Worthing read their medical theses, and the valedictory address was given by Prof. Zakrzewska, on "Woman and her Position."
LADIES MEDICAL ACADEMY. The third annual Levee of the Ladies' Medical Academy was held in Mercantile Hall, Boston, on Wednesday of last week. Dr. William Symington Brown, the Principal, was presented with a valuable microscope, and Dr. Salisbury with a silver goblet The graduating exercises took place the next day in the same hall, when the following ladies received the Degree of M. D.;-Mary M. Rideout, Charlestown; Annie A. Crazier, Roxbury; Anna M. Poole, Newburyport; Margaret B. Brown, Greenwood, Mass.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for March, is published with the following table of contents: I. Lord Bacon; II. The Wesleyan Doctrine of Christian Perfection; III. Can we have an Art-Gallery; IV. Dr. Stanley and Arius; V. Schlosser and his Histories; VI. The Reformation and its Results; VII. The American Board; VIII. Review of Current Literature. The publishers offer new inducements to subscribers by proposing to furnish the Examiner in connection with the Atlantic Monthly and North American Review at reduced rates.
THE STUDENT AND SCHOOLMATE is the title of a neat little work for young persons, published monthly, at one dollar per annum, by Galen James & Co., 15 Cornhill, Boston. It is among the best magazines for children now issued from the press.
ADDITIONAL SUMS,
Received for Twenty-Eighth Subscription-Anniversary.
PRESTON Anti-Slavery Society, by Jane Clemishaw, £8 0 0
LEIGH Ladies' Anti-slavery Society, by Elizabeth Fletcher, 5 0 0 
Ullverston Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society, by Ann Fletcher Jackson, 5 0 0
Sarah Elizabeth Palmer, Reading, 2 0 0
Mary Palmer, 1 0 0
Elizabeth P. Nichol Edinburgh, 2 0 0
Other friends, by Jane Wigham, Edinburgh, 12 0 0
Joel Smith, Leominster, Mass., $2.00
George W. Stacy, Milford, Mass., 2.00
A CARD.-By way of redeeming the failures attendant upon the Tableaux Exhibition of March 5th, at the Attacks Commemoration, arrangements are being made for an early repetition, and under circumstances insuring success. Due notice will be given of time and place.
Boston March 12, 1862.
WILLIAM C. NELL.
"THE GOLDEN HOUR," AND "THE BLACK MANS FUTURE IN THE SOUTHERN STATES."
M.D. CONWAY of Cincinnati, will lecture on the former subject and FREDERICK DOUGLASS on the last in this State, wherever wanted during the next two weeks.
Arrangements for their Lectures May be made on application to JAMES M. STONE, 22 Bromfield street.
March 4.
ANTI-SLAVERY C0NVENTION AT HYANNIS.-There will be an Anti-Slavery Convention at Hyannis on Saturday and Sunday, the 15th and 16th of March. Cape Cod, hitherto, has never needed arguments or even appeals, to crowd its largest halls, where the cause of Humanity and the Slave was theme PARKER PILLSBURY and E. H. HEYWOOD will be present.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in 
Foxboro', Sunday, March 16.
West Gloucester, Sunday, March 23.
Hopedale and Milford, Sunday, March 30.
Essex, Sunday, March 6.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE-The closing lecture will be given at Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, March 19, by Rev. MONCURE D. CONWAY. Subject-"The Golden Hour." A ticket, Admitting a gentleman and lady, 25 cents.
REV. CHARLES SPEAR will deliver an address in the Congregational Church at East Cambridge, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock. Subject-Criminal Reform.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D. office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
INDUCEMENTS TO SUBSCRIBE.
To New Subscribers the present year, the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER & ATLANTIC MONTHLY will be furnished for $5.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER AND NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW will be furnished for $7.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, and ATLANTIC MONTHLY, will be furnished for $9.00 a year.
Payment in advance to accompany the order in all cases.
A few subscriptions can be received on the above terms, beginning with THE EXAMINER for January, 1862, the first number of the current volume.
March 1, 1862.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the liberator.
MY CHILDHOOD HOME.
BY R. BURGESS.
I love the scenes of childhood,
And childhood's happy home, 
The streamlet and the wildwood,
Where oft we lov'd to roam.
No tree in all the forest
But seems a chosen friend;
No frail and fragile flow'rot
But seems to comprehend.
The bank so steep and mossy,
where oft we played of yore,
Or lay from morn till gloaming,
Absorb'd in Grecian love.
You stream, so bright and many,
Where angling long and late,
We stroll'd in childish prattle,
Nor dream'd of after fate.
The mansion old and shady;
The pines we planted, dead;
Within, the same old chambers,
Whence sainted spirits fed.
There, long their voices sounded
Like music in our ears,
A sister's and a mother's,-
I cannot hold my tears!
They drop upon the threshold,
Where oft we sat in love;
Upon the shrubs they planted,
Before they went above.
O, blessed ones in glory!
The angels must be glad,
Ye led as unto Jesus
By gentle ways ye had!
I miss upon the playground
The old accustom’d shade;
The cool and viny arbor
Has long ago desary'd.
I miss the gorgeous maples
Is autumn hues so bright;
But still our Edem valley
Is full of golden light!
How all has chang'd, dear brother,
Since you and I were have!
Gone are the springtime blossoms,
And all is brown and sere.
Gone are the merry voices,
And gone the merry heart;
For all our present laughter
Is fore'd by sickly art.
Then, let us seek, dear brother,
A rest beyond the tomb,
Where sainted ones are waiting
To shout a "Welcome Home!"
Boston, Feb. 13, 1862.
For the Liberator.
TO THE THIRTEENTH MAINE REGIMENT.
On whose banner is inscribed, "We strike for the Union and man's birthright, Freedom."
Aye, noble sons of the Pine Tree State,
Press forward with vigor, nor longer wait;
But dash at the foe with a freeman's zest,
And release the bondmen at god's behest!
The scroll on your banner is helmet strong
To confront the rebels, and conquer wrong;
Press on with vigor, and hold it high—
The rebels shall see it, and quickly fly.
The slave shall see it, and, hurrying fast,
Will smile at its promise, nor heed the past;
Bat his soul, elate with Liberty's breath,
Will rush on to join you in life or death.
Strike for the standard on whose silken fold
Blazons man's birthright in letters of gold!
Strike for the Union, and LIBERTY too-
Then will your prowess the rebels subdue.
The Union yon fight for is one without slaves—
Then rush to the battle, and conquer, ye braves!
The sword of the Lord shall victory win,
For hit battle is waged when ye fight against sin.
Boston, March 6, 1862. MERCY B. JACKSON.
Paterson, (N. J) Guardian.
WAITING FOR DAY.
BY A. GIBBS CAMPEELL.
I looked from the mountain height, and saw
Rapine assume the robes of law!
Justice I saw driven out apace,
While Robbery climbed to the highest place.
Humanity, trampled down in the street,
Lay bleeding beneath unholy feet.
And rulers, and priests, and people, all
Quickly responded to Rapine's call,
And shouted aloud, "Henceforth art thou
The only God to whom we will bow."
a chosen few there were, indeed,
Who would not swear to the robber-creed;
But disturbed the nation's wicked rest,
Pleading the cause of the poor oppressed;
And they were hissed, and hooted, and curst,
As though of all men they were the worst.
But they still kept faith in God, and some
Attested that faith by martyrdom.
Fair freedom, wounded, hid away,
And dared not walk in the light of day;
But Rapine, bolder and bolder grown,
Swore that the nation was all his own:
And over it now his black flag waves,
A nation once free,—now a nation of slaves!
Its sun has set, and a starless night
Drops, like a curtain, before my sight!
I look again from the Mountain height,
To catch the first gleam of morning light.
I hear the first shot of a distant gun,
Which speaks of a battle just begun—
The hurried tramp of armed hosts I hear, 
Whose martial tread shakes a hemisphere.
By the cannon's fitful glare, I behold
Two banners over the field unrolled;
On one shine the stars with waving light, 
The other is black as Slavery's night;
Two hostile armies, in battle array,
Each eager to enter the terrible fray;
One eager to fight for Rapine's throne,
The other willing to let him alone;
But no sure gleam of coming morn
Through the gloom of this rayless night is borne.
Yet I know that a brighter day shall rise
To cheer our hearts, and gladden our eyes.
Justice and Law shall resume their sway,
While Rapine and Robbery slink away.
Humanity, lifted up from the dust,
No More by violence shall be crushed—
For Christ our Lord shall come and reign—
His glance shall shatter each poor slave's chain;
And whatever shall dare obstruct his path
Shall be swept away by Johovah's wrath.
And that day, by prophets long foretold, 
Shall its brightest glories, all unfold!
For its speedy coming let at pray:
Oh! haston, dear Lord, the perfect day!
MARCH.
A nation waits, oh earth, (like thee,)
With bleeding heart, and anxious gaze;
Till war's wild winter to be,
And peace shall bring her summer days.
<c02>
The Liberator.
MISSIONARY DISHONESTY.
Rev. Samuel M. Worcester, of Salem, Recording Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, has a long article in the January number of the American Theological Review, the purpose of which is to correct certain erroneous statements in the "Memorial Volume "lately published by Dr. Anderson, purporting to give a true account of "the first fifty years" of the operations of the Board.
The following paragraph from that article will show the writer's conviction, not only of the importance of truthfulness and accuracy in a work purporting to be historical, (like the Memorial Volume,) but of the imperative duty of correcting errors in such a work, even though the correction involve labor and expense:-
"It has long been our conviction, therefore, that those who have the opportunity and the power of attempting the correction of such errors as, uncorrected, will inevitably become a part of accredited history, should not shrink from the duty which, according to the GOLDEN RULE, they imperatively owe to the generations of the future. And such is the design of this Memorial Volume, such the acknowledged importance of accuracy in every statement, such will be the estimation in which it will be held, as an authority for citation or reference, that it would be incomparably better to expunge, or rewrite, whole pages and whole chapters, than that any material misconception and misrepresentation of a single fact, in the history of the American Board, should be circulated through the world, and transmitted to posterity, under the full sanction, seemingly, of its own consecrated seal."-p. 95.
The errors which Dr. Worcester has thus seriously set himself to correct are certain statements made in the "Memorial Volume" respecting "the founders" of the Board, and the true period when its first half century commenced. Controverting Dr. Anderson's statement that the Board assumed its national character in 1813, and that "twenty-six corporate members" were "its founders," its "originators," Dr. Worcester claims the high credit of originating and founding the Board for his father and one other person; and further claims that these two gentlemen, assisted by three others, framed the Constitution of the Board, substantially the same as its present one, in 1810. It is to be hoped that, if these alterations are needed, to bring the "Memorial Volume" into conformity with fact, they may be made, and we counsel the critic to persevere in his efforts until they shall be made, even though some valuable time "at the meetings of the Board" be spent in an effort to convince the members of that body of the superiority of truth over error, and of the expediency of adhering to truth in their statements.
It appears, however, that when the subject of slavery is in question, Dr. Worcester does not find truth and accuracy so very important. Speaking further of the contents of the "Memorial Volume," he says- 
"On the relations of the Board to slavery, there is but little said. We may presume, from the experience of the past, that the volume, in this respect, will be unsatisfactory to many; and we should have been pleased if there had been more fullness and explicitness on this subject. But we do hope that we have heard the last of it at the meetings of the Board."- p. 92.
During the controversies respecting slavery which have agitated the Board more or less during the last twenty years. Dr. Worcester has invariably acted with the pro-slavery majority in that body, has upheld the Prudential Committee in its maintenance of slavery in the Cherokee and Choctaw churches, and has thrown the whole weight of his influence against the small remonstrating minority. Moreover, his attention has been called to detailed and well-authenticated statements proving the following things;- systematic unfairness and disingenuousness practised by the Prudential Committee against these remonstrants, through this whole period of twenty years; gross evasions, sophistries and deceptions in their documents attempting to justify this policy; the allowance, in their Indian churches, not only of the ordinary wickedness necessarily inherent in slavery, but of the open burning alive of one church-member by another, without either process of law or church-discipline against the murderess, and without the slightest action by the Prudential Committee against their missionary, who was an "accomplice after the fact" in this horrible murder.
Further, the attention of Dr. Worcester has been called to the fact that in this "Memorial Volume," purporting to be historical, a large class of facts, conspicuous in the Board's past history, and essential to a correct understanding of its character, has been carefully suppressed; that in the same volume other things have been grossly misstated; and that, after the exposure of those omissions and misstatements, alterations were made in the fourth edition of the same work, which seeming, and only seeming, to give admission to this part of the Board's history, continue and aggravate the original dishonesty, instead of atoning for it.
These facts, with details of evidence demonstrating their truth, have been laid before Dr. Worcester. What impression do they make upon him? How much does he care that the Secretaries and the Prudential Committee have not only upheld slavery, but upheld it by a long course of dishonest manoeuvring, including many instances of direct deception, and ended with the attempt to conceal their guilt by falsifying the history of their first half century?
He coolly admits that the Memorial Volume, "in this respect, will be unsatisfactory to many;" he gently intimates that he himself would have been "pleased if there had been more fullness and explicitness on this subject"; but he concludes, with a fervor evidently coming straight from the heart-"But we do hope that we have heard the last of it at the meetings of the Board."
The contrast (both of feeling expressed and of action proposed) between these two cases is noteworthy and instructive.
When it is merely the maintenance, by his pious and reverend associates, of a system of caste in America like that which they oppose in India, (including, like that, occasional burnings alive of the inferior class,) he earnestly deprecates, not this state of things, but all complaint respecting it, and all further attempts to call to account those who have established and upheld it.
When, on the other hand, the question is whether his venerable father had more or fewer associates in the original formation of the "American Board," and whether that institution was founded in one year or another, then truth, accuracy and justice are seen to be of the very highest importance; then no labor, no expense, and no interference with the repose of the Board will be misplaced (he thinks) in the attempt to rectify its errors.
This position of Dr. Worcester naturally brings to mind, not only the difference it makes to a man whether it be his ox, or merely his neighbor's, that is gored, but that narrative, handed down to us from ancient times, of a great conference-meeting, where various animals assembled for penitential exhortation and confession. The lion, the tiger, the wolf and the bear confessed the destruction of numerous lives for the gratification of their appetites, and their offences were passed by as venial. The ass acknowledged having once, under the pressure of hunger, nibbled without leave some of the parson's grass. He was immediately condemned, as a wretch unworthy to live.-c.k.w.	
CASH BETTER THAN THE LASH. The New York Times says the contrabands at Fortress Monroe, under Gen. Wool's system of cash vs. lash as a motive, "have paid for their own support, saved very large sums to the Government, and accumulated a fund of over three thousand dollars in the Quartermaster's hands." Does not this fact furnish a satisfactory and conclusive answer to the question so often asked-"What would you do with the slaves?"
<c03>
METAYERS.
Civilization in Europe has advanced the slave to the Metayer. This, it seems to me, is the normal progress commended by history as the true policy to be pursued with respect to the slaves of this country. I take leave to ask the attention of the friends of the colored race to this suggestion, which seems not to have occurred to any of them in this anxious inquiry-"What is to be done with the emancipated slaves of the South?"
Adam Smith says:-
"The pride of man makes him love to domineer, and nothing mortifies him so much as to be obliged to condescend to persuade his inferiors. Wherever the law allows it, and the nature of the work can afford it, therefore, he will generally prefer the service of slaves to that of freemen. The planting of sugar and tobacco can afford the expense of slave cultivation. The raising of corn, it seems, in the present time cannot."
This was written in 1775, before the culture of cotton had scarcely been thought of in this country. He continues:-
"To the slave cultivators of ancient times gradually succeeded a species of farmers, known at present in France by the name of metayers. They are called in Latin Coloni Partiarii. They have been so long in disuse in England, that at present I know no English name for them. The proprietor furnished them with the seed, cattle, and instruments of husbandry, the whole stock, in short, necessary for cultivating the farm. The produce was divided equally between the proprietor and the farmer, after setting aside what was necessary for keeping up the stock, which was restored to the proprietor when the farmer either quitted or was turned out of the farm."   
"Such tenants, being freemen, are capable of acquiring property; and having a certain proportion of the produce of the land, they have a plain interest that the whole produce should be as great as possible, in order that their own proportion may be so A slave, on the contrary, who can acquire nothing but his maintenance, consults his own ease by making the land produce as little as possible over and above that maintenance. It is probable that it was partly on account of this advantage, and partly on account of the encroachments which the sovereigns, always jealous of the great lords, gradually encouraged their villains to make upon their authority, and which seems, at least, to have been such as rendered this species of servitude altogether inconvenient, that tenure in villanage gradually wore out through the greater part of Europe. The time and manner, however, in which so important a revolution was brought about, is one of the most obscure points in modern history."
According to Dr. Smith, then, the parallel appears to be about perfect between the condition of society in Europe in ancient times, which brought about the extinction of slavery there, and its condition in this country now, which is bringing about the same thing here. The self-interest of every man, he scarce knows how- the religion of commerce, is spreading its influence to encourage and stimulate a more profitable system than the slave culture of the South. We want a better and safer market there; an augmented production to create an augmented consumption of values. We want to accommodate the South with greater supplies, and we want the South to accommodate us by paying for them, which it appears to be unable or unwilling to do under slave culture. The spirit of Commerce speaks inarticulately, but forcibly, to the South- "Get more capital; get more intelligence; I will send you schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, because I must have more traffic; and neither your interest nor my desire can be accommodated under your system of slave culture." It is the old teaching in a new country-more labor and better-more profit and more wealth.
And the sovereigns of this country are with reason enough jealous of the great lords of the cotton fields, and very properly and inevitably encourage their villains to make encroachments upon their authority. These rattlesnake lords have been threatening noisily the sovereigns of this country with their venom for thirty years or more. They grovel in the dirt, and shake their noisy appendages-"Don't tread upon me!"-while commerce, and science, and religion, and philanthropy, with war in harness, are driving the car of progress through their fields and over their bodies with no more regard to their "Don't tread upon me!" than to the hissing of the reptiles who lie in the path of human advancement, without sense enough to see that, if they do not get out of the way, they must be crushed to death. Again, it is the old teaching in a new country-"No resistance to the legitimate sovereignty of freedom and truth and right in human society."
The Metayer culture does not differ essentially from the custom of taking a farm upon shares in this country. The chief distinction appears to be, that custom governs wholly in the Metayer system, while the joint account system with us is governed by special contract. Sismondi, however, speaking chiefly of Tuscany, says:-"This connection is often the subject of a contract to define certain services and certain payments to which the metayer binds himself; nevertheless, the differences in the obligations of one such contract and another are inconsiderable; usage governs alike all these engagements, and supplies the stipulations which have not been expressed; and the landlord who attempted to depart from usage, who exacted more than his neighbor, who took for the basis of the agreement anything but the equal division of the crops, would render himself so odious, be would be so sure of not obtaining a metayer who was an honest man, that the contract of all the metayers may be considered as identical, at least in each province, and never gives rise to any competition among peasants in search of employment, or any offer to cultivate the soil on cheaper terms than one another." To the same effect Chateauvieux, speaking of the metayers of Piedmont: "They consider it (the farm) as a patrimony, and never think of renewing the lease, but go on from generation to generation, on the same terms, without writings or registries."
I find these extracts from Sismondi and Chateauvieux in John Stuart Mill's "Principles of Political Economy," to which I refer the reader for an approving and most interesting chapter on the Metayers, which it appears to me shows very clearly that the system is peculiarly adapted to the condition of the negroes of the South in their incipient political freedom, and to the culture of the Southern staples of cotton, rice and tobacco.
Obviously, these laborers must work with or upon somebody's capital beside their own, for they have none. To turn them adrift in freedom, with uncertainty of employment, and dependent upon wages, without any organization of capital or labor to provide them; with no self-reliance, and no power of self-seeking or self-assertion, would be, it appears to me, rather cruel than kind. Freedom upon such terms would be a doubtful boon. I propose, therefore, that the national government shall assume the position of landlord of the abandoned or confiscated estates, and inaugurate the Metayer system at once upon the plantations at Port Royal, under the supervision and management of competent commissioners selected from the fast friends of the colored race. It could not fail of success, in elevating that race, by proper incentives to ambition in the acquisition of property and of self reliance, and in revenue to the government
beside. C.
SAFETY OF EMANCIPATION.
In a letter from Mr. Webb of Dublin, in a late Anti-Slavery Standard, he says-
"Not only in America, but in England, the greatest horror is expressed of the consequences of a servile insurrection. Contrasting the relative area and population of the slave States and of those islands and other colonies in which the act of British emancipation took effect, this dread appears both cowardly and puerile. Omitting Texas, the area of the present slave States is about 600,000 square miles; whites 10,000,000: slaves 4,000,000. This gives about 16 whites and 61-2 blacks to the square mile. The area of the British slave territory was probably not more than 50,000 square miles, although that of the West India islands which contained the great majority of the slaves was only 16,000 square miles. But I allow 50,000 for the whole, and allow to them 800,000 slaves and 50,000 whites, which was I believe, the full proportion of colonists, and we have 16 black and I white inhabitant to the square
<c04>
mile. Now, it would be strange indeed, if an experiment of freedom in the United States, under prudent precautions, should produce more dangerous results with such a preponderance of the armed and organized whites than resulted in the British possessions where the whites were so enormously outnumbered."
This is an important view to those who need to have it proved that it is safer to hold men as slaves than as freemen. But the case may be put in a much stronger light.
The area of the slave States-all of them, for I see no propriety in omitting Texas-is 927,000 square miles. The entire white population of those States, in 1860, was 8,275,000, not 10,000,000, as Mr. Webb states it; slaves 4,000,000. These figures give 8 9-10 whites to the square mile, and 4 3-10 slaves. Here is the comparison:-In the British slave territory, 16 blacks and 1 white to the square mile, and sixteen times as many black inhabitants as white; and accomplished emancipation peaceful. In the American slave territory, 8 9-10 whites and 4 3-10 blacks to the square mile, and more than twice as many whites as blacks; and anticipated emancipation involves the "horrors of St. Domingo"! Add to these contrasts another consideration:- The British slave territory, composed of islands, was cut off from help from the outside in the event of disturbances; our slave territory is watched by twenty millions of freemen ready to control any disorders, if any were possible, resulting from emancipation as an act of justice and humanity. Is it ignorance, cowardice, stupidity or depravity, or all combined, that conjures up this bugbear of the dangers of emancipation? B.
WAR AND PUBLIC MORALS AND HONOR.
Extract from "A Discourse delivered before the Executive and Legislative Departments of the Government of Massachusetts, at the Annual Election. Wednesday, Jan. 1, 1862, by Rev. WILLIAM ROUNSEVILLE ALGER":-
The connection of WAR with public morals and national honor is so close and broad, and so prominent at this moment, that I must ask your attention to some thoughts on it. A subtle fallacy underlies the popular admiration for war, and hardly any other error has been so injurious as the popular misestimate of military glory. The only ultimate good of human nature is the fruition of its functions. The greater the power and freedom for this, the greater the good. Energy is the agent by which all fruition is secured. Energy, therefore, is the chiefest desideratum, the greatest virtue; energy, to repel death and disease, to preserve life and health, to sustain activity. Of course this is as true of a nation as it is of an individual. Now in war is summoned up and put forth incomparably more energy than in any other exigency. At no other time does a people so keenly feel its life in all its limbs, thrilling with electric pulsations; is its conscious supply of will and purpose so exuberant, its imagination so dilated, its total experience so variously heightened. A colossal army, at the waving of the emblem of native land, precipitating themselves into the deadly hell of battle, to conquer or die in a good cause, is the most dazzling embodiment of valor and self-sacrifice ever seen below the heavens. It is but natural that the spectacle should captivate and set men wild with admiration. Yet in giving way to the impulse to glorify war, and to laurel and deify its champions, their minds are blurred by pernicious sophistries. In the first place, war does not create- it only directs and expends-the energy so vehemently sympathized with. Faith, love, harmonious exertion, nutrition,-the normal accompaniments of peace,-are the generators and storers up of power. Hate, strife, terror, ravaging spasms,-the normal accompaniments of war,-only evoke that power from its treasuries in the souls of a loyal people, and conduct it along discordant ways to purposes of defence or destruction. War is a wasteful exhibition rather than a beneficent creation of energy. If we accept and wonder at, let us not covet and praise, the dire phenomenon, whose sorcerous beauty in one particular has so long caused mankind to overlook its demoniacal hideousness in general.
Again, we ought to understand that it is not the mere quantity of energy displayed by a being, and the recklessness of its expenditure, but its quality also, together with the method and aim of its expenditure, that mark the rank of his life and the desirableness of his condition. Here is an error constantly committed. People mistake excitement for fulfilment. A man in the convulsions of an intermittent fever may make a prodigious exhibition of energy; but the occasion is lamentable. Does it make no difference, if we but show a given amount of energy, whether we expend it in stamping a rattlesnake, or in embracing a truth? in beating off a murderer, or in devising a new benefaction? in thwarting the plans of a rival, or in consummating an act of saintly goodness? In that torrent of devotion to the cause of our embattled and imperilled country now surging through the souls of the people, many needful discriminations of morality are frequently swept away; utterances abound on every side which flatly contradict the holiest oracles of religion. Hundreds of speeches and sermons have been delivered affirming, almost in so many words, that peace is naturally a great breeder of selfishness and corruption, a nest of degrading tameness and vice; that war is naturally a purifying leaven, a begetter of every high excellence, the sole condition for realizing the choicest blessings; that a little while ago life was a dull business, hardly worth carrying on, a puling period of habit and tedium; but now it is indeed a privilege to be alive; this arbitrament by slaughter, with its concomitants, is the acme of glory; now the night is full of hope and the day is full of splendor. In a word, we are to thank God for permitting our eyes to see this magnificent, kindling, blessed, religious war! This is the popular tone in many quarters. But what a perversion it is of truth! and propriety; what a reversal of the sanctities of right and humanity; what a piteous parody of that gospel whose beginning, middle and close are, "Peace on earth, good-will towards men," "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," "Father, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven!" The persons who talk so seem actually to interpret this fever of the country, raging at its climax, her agonized struggle of life and death, as a wholesome and delightful exaltation of her proper life, instead of seeing that it is a horrible wrench of her structure which sets all her organs griding in their sockets, with appalling waste of power, and with many dangers.
War is the constrained expenditure of the energies of a people, not in the happy play or natural work of their faculties, but in bursting their chains or repulsing their assailants. Primarily it is an insurgent outbreak of evil; secondarily, to put down that insurrection is rather a woeful task of necessity, to be religiously regretted while accepted, than a heavenly opportunity for glory, to offer holocausts for. The joy and dignity of a people reside in the varied spontaneity and concord of their action. But there is immeasurably less of this in war than in peace. Nowhere are men so compressed and hardened into machine-like masses as in armies. Every other form of rule allows more freedom and diversity than military discipline, which, whenever it prevails, increases the severity and enlarges the province of government, sternly curbing; the free functions of the people in accordance with the martial exigencies of the hour. Government is a check on the evil propensities of men. War is a demonstration that those propensities have been aggravated into insurgency, and have made a corresponding intensification of the functions of government necessary. A conspicuous and chronic element in barbarism, it is a monstrous exception in civilization, every recurrence of it showing that the barbaric stage is not yet wholly outgrown. The dissentient energies of society on encountering may crash in war, recoil and proceed in the separate but parallel paths of jealous rivalry, or with mutual modifications blend in cooperative union. Which of these results will be experienced depends on the degree of moral refinement reached. With reckless savages it will be the first; with shrewd, selfish competitors it will be the second; but with thoughtful Christians it will be the last. People are very apt to overlook the infernal and even disgusting character of the detailed components of battle in its collective sublimity: to allow their fancies to be deluded by the imposing grandeur of a nation's wrath and vengeance, disguising the mean and odious features of individual fury, cruelty, mutilation and terror, in the aggregate aspects of awe and beauty. Is not the fallacy obvious? So stupendous and impressive in total bulk and show was the pyramid of human skulls reared by Timonr, that undoubtedly many a spectator forgot that its components were but death, horror, sacrilege and decay. The true glory of a state cannot be that which exempli
<c05>
fies its evil, but must be that which prophecies its perfection. Therefore it shrinks from the passions of war to live with the principles of virtue.
He that in fight diminishes mankind,
Does no addition to his stature find;
But he that does a noble nature show,
Obliging others, still does higher grow.
No one can compute the details of anguish, wide-spread poverty and woe, to result from this present war of ours. It will all be due virtually to the unhallowed wilfulness of a party of slave-masters who forced the issue on us, and would not suffer it to be prevented. In its origin, then, there was no glory, but boundless disgrace. It was an eruption of evil actions from a pit of evil passions. And in the war itself, so far, I can see only incidental cause for exultation, much greater cause for sorrow. Were it a war prosecuted by the aroused spirit of freedom and justice to vindicate the rights of all, rescue the down-trodden victims of wrong, cleanse our national banner, adjust our constitution to the principles of true democracy and religion, there would be a redeeming glory in its cause and motive which might call on our pulses to dance for joy. But it does not seem to be such a conflict. It appears much more like the pride of the country leaping up to avenge an insult, the interest of the country rallying to support its authority and immunities. This is an imperative duty, whose determined performance is infinitely better than submission to the encroachments of wrong. But the opportunity is not a boon to sing paeans over. The Christian patriot who sees this war aiming simply to place things as they were before, returning fugitive slaves to their masters, decreeing no act for the enlargement of the freedom of the people, must feel oppressed with grief rather than electrified with gratitude. He can only cling to the hope that, as the panorama rolls on, to the lurid accompaniments of battle, by and by the dismal scenes will burst asunder and suddenly reveal an act of compensating good, an act of sublime splendor-millions of men going free, with broken fetters, tears of joy, and hymns to God. Nor let any over-nice constructionist deem it treason to the organic law of the land to wish such a result. The Constitution is mighty and venerable; but the convulsions of a crisis like this snap many ties; and new legislation can modify and mend.
As veers the wind so shifts the pilot's art;
Who saves the ship may well reset the chart.
Yet in immediate connection with this overshadowing calamity of civil war, the discriminating moralist, as well as another, perceives that there has actually been an outbreak of glory illuminating the whole land. But he, unlike the superficial observer, recognizes the genuine origin and purport of that glory, and ascribes it to its substantial cause, not to its mere occasion; to the virtues of the people, not to the war. The sublime enthusiasm with which, at the call of their country, half a million gallant men extricated themselves from the ties of home and business, and sprang into the mortal field; the heroic elevation of sentiment with which the women yielded up their beloved ones to the hazards of the conflict, and resolved themselves into a committee of the whole for supplying the wants of the camp and the hospital; the voluntary assumption of sacrifices, hardships and perils, by all classes, in response to the exigency of the public weal-this, however alloyed by the intermixture of baser matter, this is the dazzling glory of the hour. Let it not be blasphemed by a profane identification of it with feats of brute strength, butchery and devastation, or with the brilliant antics of ambition and the rampant egotism of victory. Rather let the wrecks of fortunes, the fumes of carnage, the smoke of conflagrations, the groans of the wounded, the heaps of the dead, the tears of widows and orphans, cause these latter to bide themselves in silence, behind the stern garb of duty.
War is properly the carnival of hatred and injury. Its essence is destructive animosity. Intrinsically, therefore, it is wicked and infamous. But in, accompaniment with it there may be an unparalleled exhibition of the noblest virtues of man, energy, bravery, disinterestedness. Through it also may sometimes be achieved the most priceless advantages of society, justice, freedom, and assured security. Obviously the glory won in such cases does not belong to war, but to the commanding virtues exemplified, and the costly ends obtained in connection with it. War by itself, destroying wrath let loose, can be nothing but repulsive and damnable. But through one of those sensational fallacies so common, and so pregnant of mischief to mankind, the glory thus visibly associated with war is often morally identified with it. The people come to admire and applaud the scenic display of virtues on exciting occasions. but to pass carelessly over the beneficent fulfilment of their normal functions in the blessed routine of privacy and peace. Then the votaries of ambition learn to love war as a thrilling field of adventure, to covet it as the speediest path to notoriety, to improve every opportunity of rushing into it as the most brilliant and feasible arena for drawing the eyes of the populace and plucking the wreath of adulation. And so war becomes an idol daubed with praise and tricked out with gewgaws.
The test of universality will make it start up in its frightful truth. Imagine every man on earth to be a military hero flaunting the incarnadine trophies of a conqueror: and imagine war to prevail steadily everywhere. A seething chaos of strife, vengeance and murder, closing in the silence of exhaustion and ruin, would be the sequel. But suppose, on the other hand, peace to be everywhere and perpetual; suppose every man on earth to be a victorious embodiment of truth and love, incarnating all the virtues in his character, and unobtrusively enjoying their prerogatives in the spontaneous performance of the functions of a man. What would result then? Why, the absolute perfection of the individual and the whole, full of bliss and covered with glory, each man a finite representative of God, and the entire earth a mirror of heaven. Let us therefore ever deprecate the need of war while we glorify the virtues it elicits, remembering that the radiant worth of the soldier springs not from the dread business he is about, but from the high spirit in which he executes it. Nor let us forget that if he goes to war, simply from hatred of the foe, or from a regard for the emoluments, or from a selfish hankering for display and reputation, however valiant and successful he prove, not the faintest attribute of true glory belongs to him. Glorious Bayard was not the strongest man in the army, nor the handsomest, but the best.
THE BLIND CHILDREN.
BY JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
Nearly twenty years ago. Aunt Ruth and I made a visit to the institution for the blind in Columbus, Ohio. The edifice was then new, and seemed to us quite tastefully constructed. We were delighted to find a happy family of thirty or forty dear children.
The boys were engaged in making shoes and brushes; the girls in knitting, sewing, and constructing little baskets, cradles and chairs, by stringing various colored beads on thread and wire. As we looked upon their sightless eyes, forever shut from the glorious light and beauty of the world, our bosoms heaved a sigh, and our cheeks were moistened with tears.
Will yon not be very much surprised, my little readers, when I tell you that many of these blind children could spell, read and write?
You wonder how this can be true. Well, the letters are made by impression on paper, and are raised above the surface, so that by the touch of their fingers they soon learn to distinguish one letter from another.
It is said that when one of our faculties becomes I impaired or destroyed, others will increase in power. Just as if five good little girls and boys were to go a nutting in the autumn, and one should get a fall, and grow faint and sick, the balance of the party would sly, "We will search the more diligently, and work the harder, and share our gains with our unfortunate comrade." So, when t he sense of bearing becomes impaired, the eye says to the ear, "Never mind, I will help thee"-or when the eye grows dim, feeling comes to the rescue, and does all it can.
I guess von would hare thought this true if you had seen these children in their round of labor and amusement. They would run through the great house and paw from one apartment to another with surprising facility. Their little hands would be stretched out ready to touch any object that came in the way.
They played hide and seek, jump the rope, and were as merry a group as I ever saw. I was invited to speak to the whole school, which I did briefly.
I sometimes say, "I love God and little children." I well remember how I felt drawn in with near and affectionate feeling to utter words of kindness to those little ones, a number of whom were orphans.
<c06>
and all separated from "home, sweet home," where so many of you are blessed with a father's counsel and a mother's love.
Little Lucinda was not more than five years old; she seemed an angel child. She was beautiful in her from, and possessed a rare wealth of affection. Well do I remember how she climbed upon my knees, passing her tiny fingers over my face, and then my hair, at the same time her sweet little lips finding mine. Aaron was manly boy, prepossessing in a remarkable degree. Anna Maria was very interesting and attractive,-remarkably talented in musical acquirements. But lest I make the story too long, I will come right to the point, and tell you that in the spring of 1860, Aunt Ruth and Uncle Joseph made a tour from their home, in Chester county, Pa., to several points in the grand West, where we held some delightful conventions for the little folks, and we had grand times with them. It happened that we made the city of Columbus one of our points, and again visited the Blind Asylum.
Twenty years had made many changes; the former principals and teachers were gone. The children of 1840 had grown to be men and women, and were not there, with one exception.
Dr. Lord and his excellent wife, the present incumbents, gave us a kind reception. Before being seated in the school-room, I inquired for the three whom I have named. The doctor replied, "Aaron is now a teacher in another institution, Lucinda is in heaven, Anna Maria is yonder," pointing to a fine-looking woman at the farther end of the spacious room. I inquired, "May I go and speak to and introduce you." "Please not," I replied, "I want to see if she will remember me." So I went to her, presented my hand, and taking hers in mine, asked if she knew me. Very soon I discovered a slight tremor upon her lips, as she exclaimed with emotion, "Oh, can it be friend Dugdale? Why, I heard you were dead! I am very glad to see you."
The blind always talk as if they could see. Here was a wonderful illustration of the power of other faculties having been brought into play, so that, after twenty years, this blind woman recognized by the voice and touch of the hand a friend upon whose countenance she had never looked.
The chapel was lighted in the evening, and an hour or more spent in the narration of instructive stories, when one by one the dear children came forward, and gave us the parting hand.-Educator and Museum.
$40 PARKER $40
SEWING MACHINES,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS,
This is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheelers & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachutts Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is so wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that so count."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tennis easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair. for its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and Is of the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market-South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it can not be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders the these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than thing we can mention; for were it not for its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome ask.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last tow or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
