THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters re-lasting to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. No. 7. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1574.
<c01>
Selections.
AN ABOLITION MEETING BROKEN UP BY A MOB.
The radical Abolitionists of this place attempted to hold a meeting at the Free Church, on Saturday and Saturday evening last, but were prevented by a mob. Parker Pillsbury, of Boston, was relied upon as the principal speaker, though there were others who were expected to participate in the discussion.
For days prior to the day appointed for the Convention, we had noticed signs portentous of an outbreak at the approaching meeting, and we feared just such a result as has disgraced the city, and all the persons engaged in it. We have no more sympathy with Pillsbury and his co-laborers, than we have with Wigfall, Toombs, Garrison, or the Democratic party, for they are all of a piece, disunionists of the blackest character. The Democratic party have well nigh ruined the nation, and Wigfall, Toombs, Garrison, Pillsbury, Douglas, Buchanan, and the Free Press, with the smaller fry of the party, all are now seeking to put the finishing touch upon their work of destruction. Such sentiments as Pillsbury and his school advocate are subversive of all order and law, and such sentiments and acts as the Democratic party have put forth are subversive of the real principles upon which our government is based. But we hold that when mobs are allowed wantonly to destroy the lives or property of any class of men, and when the law is set at defiance, it is time for every man to fill his pockets with six shooters, and become a law to himself. We hold that no man has a moral right to utter treasonable sentiments against his country. Though he may not thus subject himself to the penalty due to traitors, yet he does subject himself to the ridicule and contempt of his countrymen; and as there is no law to punish such men for their disunion sentiments thus uttered, we believe in minding our own business, and severely letting them alone. The occurrence in our city has disgraced us beyond measure. We were not present at the place of meeting, but we learn that some bones as well as windows, doors, seats, &c., were broken.
We saw one little chap very much excited; we judged that the little fellow had been bitten by a rat, or some other small animal. He hopped and chalked about as though he thought that if the Almighty had only given our country a few more such specimens of Lilliputian dimensions, intellectually and physically, the country would never need another Washington.
The whole thing was wrong. We advised Mr. Stebbins, Glazier and others not to attempt to hold the meeting; and if the authorities had interfered and prevented the holding a meeting for the promulgation of disunion sentiments, the result would have been far less disgraceful, and there would be now no sore heads, broken bones, and shattered buildings. The holding of such a meeting, we urged upon these gentlemen, could do no good, though there should be no demonstrations of hostility, and it was impossible for us to see any good reason why those gentlemen, intelligent as they are, moral and quiet citizens as all know them to be, should persist in holding such a meeting, in view of the fact that no good could possibly arise from it. But mob violence is always to be condemned, even when the law is violated. What words, then, should be employed to express the profound contempt in which the community should hold the aiders and abettors of the mob of Saturday night?
Pillsbury violated no law; and though we look upon him as a traitor to his country in spirit, yet he does not stand before the country as a criminal; and if he did, no man or men would have a right to lay violent hands on him.
May or Barry was called upon to quell the riot, but when proceeding to the scene of bloodshed for that purpose, he was informed that the crowd had dispersed.
We learn that Mr. Pillsbury had a respectable bearing on Sunday, and that the meeting was well attended, and no violence attempted-Michigan State News, Ann Arbor, Jan. 29th.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The following correspondence, in relation to the Anti-Slavery Convention in Syracuse, passed between the Mayor and Rev. Mr. May, previous to the holding of their Convention:-
LETTER FROM MAYOR WESTCOTT TO REV. MR. MAY. 
MAYOR'S OFFICE, SYRACUSE, (N. Y.) Jan. 26, 1861. 
REV. SAMUEL J. MAY: Dear Sir,-I herewith transmit to you, and through you to others taking an active part in the contemplated Anti-Slavery Convention about to be held in this city, a request or petition from many of our citizens, that you will at least postpone said Convention, for reasons stated in said petition.
Although I have not signed this document, yet I fully concur in the sentiments and arguments therein set forth. That there is an intention, if not a settled determination, on the part of sundry reckless and irresponsible persons, to interfere with the proceedings of this Convention, there is in my mind no longer any doubt, and with, what result it is difficult to say. If in your judgment, and in the judgment of your coadjutors, these reasons are such as to determine you to comply with the prayer of the petitioners, I have no hesitation in saying, that such a decision would not only be judicious, but would meet the approbation of our citizens almost universally.
Yet I wish both you, and all the other parties concerned, to understand most distinctly, that I believe it your undoubted right to hold such Convention. Not only so, but in case you do decide to go on with your meetings, I shall fearlessly use every means at my command to secure order, and to prevent any interference with your proceedings.
Very respectfully,
A WESTCOTT, Mayor.
A COMMUNICATION TO REV. MR. MAY FROM SUNDRY CITIZENS.
To REV. SAMUEL J. MAY:
Sir,-The undersigned, your fellow-citizens of the city of Syracuse, are advised that an Abolition Convention is to be convened here on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week.
It may safely be assumed that you take a prominent position in this movement.
In the present excited condition of the public mind, on the great question of Union or disunion, we beg leave to suggest to you, and to your associates, the propriety of avoiding any new cause of agitation or complaint.
We affirm now and ever, under the guarantees of the Constitution, the entire liberty of speech to every American citizen. We affirm, moreover, that our duties as citizens would require us to aid in ex-
<c02>
tending protection to your Convention, in the exercise of the rights which all deliberative bodies may claim; but we still believe that public peace and the good of the whole country demand of us at this time forbearance and moderation.
We are no disunionists. On the other hand, we cheerfully recognize the superior blessings which the American Union has secured to our country, and the important influence which it has exerted upon the civilized world. 
With you, we regard the existence of slavery among us as a great moral, political and social evil, the extension of which, beyond the limits where it is recognized by the Constitution, is to be resisted by every means consistent with the integrity of the States, and the maintenance of public liberty; but we can see no promise of good in the measures of the Convention you propose to hold. 
You cannot expect to change the sentiment of the North upon the subject of slavery, for that is almost unanimous; and if your object be to convince the public that our Southern friends are entitled to no constitutional protection, we cannot but regard it as giving just cause of offence, as tending to excite a disturbance of the public peace, and to forward the efforts of the Southern States to dismember the Confederacy. 
We sincerely trust you will deem it proper to exert your influence to prevent the assembling of a Convention, which can now be productive only of evil. 
In conclusion we may add, that we are credibly informed that an organized and forcible effort will be made to prevent the holding of your Convention, and we fear a collision between the police force of the city and a lawless mob. 
THOS. T. DAVIS, WM. E. ABBOTT, 
JOHN WILKINSON, E. W. LEVENWORTH, 
HIRAM PUTNAM, E. B. WICKS, 
O. T. BURT, D. P. PHELPS,
JOHN DOLPHIN, ISRAEL S. SPENCER,
JAMES M. ELLIS, H. W. SLOCUM, 
JAMES S. LEACH, J. G. K. TRUAIR, 
LYMAN CLARY, MOSES SUMMERS, 
ALANSON THORP, W. BROWN SMITH, 
T. B. FITCH, H. D. HATCH. 
REV. MR. MAY'S REPLY. 
SYRACUSE, Jan. 28, 1861, 1:45 P. M.
GENTLEMEN,-Your communication requesting me to exert my influence to prevent the assembling of the Anti-Slavery Convention, called to meet on the 29th and 30th, came to hand at 1-4 to 12.
The Committee of Arrangements have not yet come to the city; and I have no authority to postpone the Convention on their behalf. They may not arrive until this evening or to-morrow morning. Meanwhile, there is not time for me to see enough of the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, residing in Syracuse, to sustain me in assuming the responsibility of preventing the meeting for the reasons you assign. 
In common with my associates, I am very sincere in believing, that the principles we inculcate, and the measures we advise, are the only ones that can extirpate from our country the root of that evil which now overshadows us. and threatens our ruin as a nation. We have much to say to the people-much that we deem it most important that they should hear and ponder, lest they bow themselves to another compromise with the slaveholding oligarchy, which, for the last twenty-five years, has ruled our Republic, and which nothing would satisfy but the entire subjugation of our liberties to their "peculiar institution." 
We perceive that the "strong" men of the Republican party are trembling, and concession and compromises are coming to be their only hope. We deprecate their fears-their want of confidence in moral principle and God. We do not consider the re-union of our divided States of so much consequence as we do a steadfast adherence to the true and the right. We therefore feel deeply urged to cry aloud, and warn the people of the snare into which politicians and statesmen would lead them. We should, at least, offer to speak, whether the people will hear, or whether they will forbear. 
If, gentlemen, you had assured me that our proposed meeting will be violently assaulted; that those who may assemble peacefully to listen to us, will not be allowed to near us; that they will be dispersed with insult, if not with personal injury; and that you-gentlemen of influence as you are-shall stand aloof, and let the violent have their way-then I should have felt it to be incumbent on me to advise the friends of Liberty and Humanity, that it would not be worth their while to convene, as it would be dispersed.
But, gentlemen, as you generously "affirm" in the letter before me, "that your duties as citizens would require you to aid in extending protection to our Convention, in case it shall be convened, in the exercise of all the rights which all deliberate bodies may claim ,"-and as the Mayor of our city has assured me that "he shall fearlessly use every means at his command to secure order, and to prevent any interference with our proceedings,"-I feel that I should not be justified in assuming the responsibility of postponing the Convention. For, gentlemen, if you will do what you acknowledge to be your duty, and if the Mayor will fulfil his generous promise, I am confident the rioters will be overawed, the liberty of speech will be vindicated, and the city rescued from a deep disgrace.
Yours, gentlemen, in great haste, but very respectfully,
SAMUEL J. MAY.
P. S. Police Office, 4 1-2 P.M. Since the above was written, the Committee of Arrangements have arrived, and without knowing what I have written above, they, each of them, after hearing your communication., and the Mayor's letter, determined that it was our duty to go on with the Convention; to present ourselves at the time and place appointed, and offer to the people the advice we have to give in this emergency of our country. S. J. M.
The Abolition Meeting Broken Up-Convention Hall Crowded-Union Resolutions Adopted-Crittenden's Amendments Endorsed-Great Rejoicing-Speeches, &c.
Two o'clock P. M., yesterday, was the time appointed for the holding 
of the Annual Abolition Convention, under the lead of Susan B. Anthony, Beriah Green, and others of that class, at Convention Hall, in this city. At about half-past one, the people began to assemble, and soon the hall was crowded to its utmost capacity. At a quarter past two, on motion of Ezra Downer, D. A Orcutt was unanimously chosen Chairman, and James Isdell and Edwin Pierson were appointed to conduct him to his seat.
Mr. Orcutt ascended the platform amid vociferous cheering, and, when order was restored, made an effective speech. He said his selection as Chairman surprised him, but he would endeavor to discharge the duties of the position faithfully and impartially. He alluded to the fact that Syracuse had been trampled upon for years by Abolitionists; and he
<c03>
was happy to see the people now rise up in their might, crush out treason in their midst, and manifest a disposition to save the Central City from further disgrace. He trusted that the Union might yet be preserved, and that his Southern brethren would receive these conservative demonstrations as "olive branches " from the North, and be willing to restore the "loved and lost" in the bright galaxy of States. Mr. Orcutt's remarks were received with the wildest enthusiasm by the dense crowd of people before him. 
On motion, Mr. O'Grady was chosen Secretary. 
At this juncture, Rev. Samuel J. May, Rev. M. E. Strieby, Susan B. Anthony, and several other leading Abolitionists entered the hall, but with difficulty pressed their way to the front of the platform. 
Mr. May commenced with, "Mr. President-A convention was called to assemble in this hall by-" [storms of hisses and applause broke out all over the house.] Mr. May. "I arose-" [cries of " Put him out:" "We want no Abolitionists here," followed by hisses, patting of hands, and the greatest excitement.]
Mr. May attempted again to speak, but such was the din that his voice was drowned, and he took his seat. 
Rev. Mr. Strieby next attempted to address the Convention, but with no better success than his predecessor..
Russell R. Lowell said that Mr. Strieby desired to say a few words, but was answered with-"No;" "No;" "No;" "Abolitionists are played out in this city." 
Mr. Strieby continued, "Is this freedom of-" [Voices and hisses with "Put the nigger out."] Mr. Strieby inquired, "Mr. President, have I the floor?" 
The Chair decided that Mr. Strieby was entitled to the floor. 
Mr. John C. Hunt desired to present a series of resolutions. 
Mr. Strieby said if the resolutions were offered, they were debatable, and he having the floor, desired to debate them. [Great excitement; people rising in their seats, as some of the colored brethren entered the hall. Cries of " Put the niggers out."]
Mr. Hunt then read the following resolutions, amidst tumultuous applause:-
Whereas, It is the duty of all good citizens of these United States, without distinction of party, to cultivate amicable feelings with and amongst each other, rather than to promote discord and excite hatred-and believing that, at this particular juncture of national affairs, it is unwise, unjust, and unpatriotic to agitate the question of the abolition of involuntary servitude-and while we are not for abriging the constitutional right of "freedom of speech," but on the contrary desire it-and wishing hereby to give (by freedom of speech and of the press) an expression of the sentiments of a large majority of the citizens of this city,-therefore, be it 
Resolved, That we have too long allowed a few persons in our city to misrepresent us abroad, by sending forth to the world, by their resolutions and proceedings, adopted by a very small assemblage, their Abolition sentiments as the approved sentiments of this community.
Resolved, That we accuse the engineers, aiders and abettors of the Underground Railroad of hypocrisy and inconsistency, in claiming for themselves "freedom of speech" under the Constitution, while they are deliberately violating its express provisions.
Resolved, That we hereby tender and accord to our Southern brethren ALL their constitutional rights, both in States and Territories.
Resolved, That it is the almost universally expressed sentiment of this community, that they will not, in any way, assist, abet or encourage the attempts of a few persons in our midst to stir up strife between the Northern and Southern portion of our common country; and that they will frown upon, discourage, and by all proper means resist, their attempts to override, annul and evade any portion of the provisions of the Constitution and the Laws. 
Resolved, That, in memory of the past, we will use our best endeavors and all honorable means to perpetuate the Union as the means of securing happiness and prosperity for ourselves and our posterity; and firmly believing in "the capabilities of man for self-government," we hope the sunshine will soon, in undimmed splendor, break through the clouds that now hang darkly over us; and that our national flag, enveloping in its capacious folds the Palmetto and all other State flags for protection, will be greeted with applause in all portions of the Union; and that that beautiful national air, "The Star Spangled Banner," will again and again be sung by a joyful and happy people, with emotions of pride and pleasure, from every hill-top and savannah, from every mountain, plain and valley of our beloved country.
Mr. James McGurk offered the following resolutions, which were accepted by Mr. Hunt as an addition to his series:-
Whereas, Our glorious Confederacy is crumbling to pieces, and civil war is staring us in the face; and the chief cause thereof has emanated from unscrupulous Abolitionists at the North, who for years past have been preaching treason against the United States Government, and malignantly denouncing the constitutional institutions of the South, and branding our Southern brethren as pirates, instead of cultivating with them friendships and brotherly love;-and, 
Whereas, Syracuse has long been the rendezvous of Jerry Rescue traitors, headed by Fred. Douglass, and the depot of the Underground Railroad, marshaled by negro Loguen;-and
Whereas, Our city has often been disgraced by treasonable meetings, instituted by these dangerous men, and their followers, in which meetings plots have been formed for sowing seeds of Abolitionism and Disunionism abroad, which, in common with the action of other Abolition meetings held at the North, gave rise to the bloody raid at Harper's Ferry-therefore, be it 
Resolved, That we brand all such persons as fanatical rebels, disloyal to the American Flag, the Constitution, the Union, and the Laws; and we believe them unworthy of a country which cherishes and reveres the memory of Washington, Jefferson, Jackson, Webster and Clay, and that they should not be allowed to hold insurrectionary meetings in our midst. 
Resolved, That as this Government was founded upon compromises with our Southern brethren, it is but right and proper that, in order to dispel the dark clouds which hang over our distracted country, and to restore the bright galaxy of stars to its former beauty and glory, we now hereby solemnly pledge ourselves to maintain and sustain the Compromise measures offered in the United States Senate by the Hon. John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky,-believing that Mr. Crittenden's amendments are the best, if not the only measures yet presented which will have the desired effect of saving the Union, and restoring once more the bonds of brotherly love between the different sections of the land.
Mr. Stieby attempted to speak to the resolutions, but the uproar was so great that he could not be heard.
A motion to adopt the resolutions was then put, and carried by acclamation without a dissenting voice, and with repeated cheers. 
Loud calls were then made for B. Davis Noxon, Jr., who came forward, ascended the platform, and spoke as follows:-
How long, O Cataline, wilt thou abuse our patience? and how long, O Xantippa wilt thou vex our philosophers? Fellow-citizens, I deprecate the necessity for calling a public meeting at this time to express our disapproval of the acts and sayings of
<c04>
the fanatics who infest our country, while at the same time I rejoice to know that the conservative element in our midst is being aroused from its lethargy, and when its final awakening shall have been accomplished, woe betide the political demagogue who attempts to stem its irresistible torrent. For many years we have been patient; our townsmen have remained passive spectators of the frequent gatherings in our city, where the lessons of treason and disunion have been taught to gaping audiences, and instilled into the minds of infants and sucking babes. Again I ask, " How long, O, Cataline, wilt thou abuse our patience?" We have given you unbounded license. You have been undisturbed by mobs or by orderly citizens. You have been protected by our laws, and screened from your just deserts by our clemency. You have been notified not to attempt to hold public meetings here at this particular crisis in our national affairs, to discuss what we term treasonable doctrines, and most ungratefully you persist in doing so. Now, we earnestly, friendly and decidedly protest against it. You are in the minority, many of you strangers to our people, and when you come here we will treat you with civility, but you must respect our wishes. 
Fellow-citizens, the Abolitionists of our country seem to have some very erratic notions of Free Speech. Free Speech! What does it mean? Does it mean an unbridled tongue licensed by law to teach our people treason and rebellion, and to resist the execution of process issued by our duly appointed authorities? Does it mean that public meetings may be held and language used there purposely to incite a mob, and to counsel violence? Does it mean that men may, with impunity, call all who disagree with them miscreants, demagogues and liars, in respect to the political policy of this country, the heritage of which is the brightest the sun ever shone upon? Or, does Free Speech mean, in this community, the use of language tempered with a proper respect to individuals, to communities, and to the whole nation? Free Speech don't mean unlimited language. While the Abolitionists denounce our Constitution as "a league with hell," they still claim, under the league, and by the league, Free Speech. 
In a recent speech at Boston, Wendell Phillips, the head and front, the leader and orator of the Abolition party in this country, made this remark: "Sixteen years ago, Northern Abolitionists announced their purpose to seek the dissolution of the American Union. Who dreamed that success would come so soon?" Yes, who dreamed that treason had so long existed in our country in the specious garb of philanthropy? Who dreamed that a people so prosperous in worldly affairs, so devout in religion, so generous in nature, and so happy in themselves;-who dreamed, I say, of-the rottenness within-a small speck, to be sure, but a chancre notwithstanding. "Are we men, and suffer such dishonor?"
Now that these sixteen years of abolition agitation to dissolve the American Union is culminating, let us take a hasty glance at the condition of our country as it was in October last, and then, from that elevated stand-point, look full in the face the "manifest destiny" of existence. Thirty millions of people! a happy family, at peace with all the world, gathered together on their farm, a certain piece or parcel of land bounded and described as follows: Beginning at a point near the St. Johns river in New Brunswick, running thence westerly along the river St. Lawrence, the great lakes, and the northwest to the verge of civilization and to the Pacific ocean, thence southerly along the Pacific ocean to Mexico, thence easterly along the northerly line of Mexico to the Gulf of Mexico, and to the south-easterly extremity of Florida, (so called.) thence northerly along the Atlantic ocean to Plymouth Rock, thence easterly along said Atlantic ocean to the St. Croix river, thence northerly to the place of beginning, containing within its bounds every variety of soil and climate, watered by the noblest rivers, covered with gigantic forests, containing within its bosom untold mines of coal, iron, copper, gold, silver and other metals, producing everything for man's subsistance, his luxury and his comfort. The appurtenances thereto attached are without limit: they consist in part of factories, foundaries, machine shops, churches, colleges, seminaries, railroads, canals, harbors filled with ships, and an endless variety of tenements, and buildings for all kinds of trades and manufacture. Take it all in all, it's a most desirable place for a poor man to live. But it's not for sale. The family who have been living on this estate have dwelt together in unity, peace and happiness, from the 4th of July, 1776, up to and within a very recent period. Owing to some coldness existing in the North, some incendiaries have been attempting, during the last sixteen years, to set this estate on fire, and have at last partially succeeded; but an element, of which there is an abundance, called conservatism, is brought to bear upon the conflagration, and if diligently and vigorously applied, will quench the incendiaries, and break up this nest which hatches nothing but discord. 
Now, on the other hand, what has been the effect of such teachings, and such agitations? We find ourselves upon the verge of civil war; the white sails of commerce that dot every ocean, and visit every harbor, are folding their wings to meet the coming night of darkness and of storm; the business men of the country are preparing for the catastrophe; the work-shops must close, the spindles must cease to revolve, the poor man must be thrown out of employment. The soldiers, nightly parading our streets, indicate the preparations for war within our borders; the pulsations of the national heart beat still; the long-drawn breath of patriotism seems to say, O God, avert the calamity! The reflecting, shrinking mother nestles her innocent babe to her bosom, and with uplifted eyes says, "O God, avert this calamity," and the fiend, "Abolitionism," revels with delight at the prospect of rapine, plunder, war and bloodshed, while its devotees won't make good soldiers, for they are all non-resistants. 
Mr. Noxon was loudly applauded, during his remarks. 
H. S. Green, of Cortland, endeavored to address the Convention, but was soon silenced. [Applause and hisses. "Put out the nigger;" "Go on, stranger, only talk about our dismembered Union."] The Abolitionists then "seceded" from the Convention. 
The Police force here entered the room, and Gen. Richardson, Republican Chief of Police, being loudly called for, took the stand and said: "Gentlemen, persons in the street summoned me here to keep the peace, but I see no trouble. Everything is quiet, and nothing of mobocracy is in your midst. It is not my purpose to disturb your deliberations, as I see nothing but the strictest order and universal good feeling in this body of my fellow-citizens." 
The "Chief" was loudly applauded. 
A motion to adjourn was put, and in the confusion the Chairman declared it carried, and left his seat; whereupon Mr. O'Grady, the Secretary, was called upon to preside, and the proceedings continued.
<c05>
Loud calls were made for "Hicks," "McGurk," and "Hart." Moses E. Hart came forward, and said he claimed to be a Republican, but a conservative one. He knew there was excitement all over this Union. He was not in favor of waging war upon his Southern brethren. He was in favor of wiping all obnoxious laws from the statute-books of the State of New York. The Abolitionists had long held sway in Syracuse, but their race was now run. He then alluded to the Chicago platform, when he was applauded down! Mr. H. endeavored to explain, but the excited crowd would not listen to him.
On motion, Amos B. Hough was appointed Treasurer, to collect "toll" at the door in the evening.
Wm. W. Green then entered the hall, and was loudly called for. He spoke at considerable length, making an eloquent appeal in behalf of the Union, and expressing the hope that a compromise would yet be effected. He gave the Abolitionists "Jessie," and aroused his hearers to the highest pitch of excitement.
Messrs. John Burns and Luke McKinney were both called upon, and amused the audience with witticisms upon the "rise and fall" of Abolitionism. 
On motion, the meeting adjourned to 7 P. M.
At 7 o'clock, an immense concourse of people assembled in front of Convention Hall; but after being assured by the owner of the building that no attempt to hold a session of the Abolition Convention during the evening would be made, and that the hall would not be opened, the crowd adjourned to 8 o'clock this morning, and quietly dispersed.-Syracuse Courier and Union; Jan. 30. 

ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The members of the Anti-Slavery Convention, who were driven out of Convention Hall yesterday afternoon, met at the dwelling of Dr. R. W. Pease last evening, and organized by selecting 
Rev. S. J. May as Chairman, and Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mr. C. D. B. Mills as Secretaries. 
A large number of ladies and gentlemen, and several of our most noted Abolition orators, were present.
Remarks were made as to the object of the meeting by Miss Susan B. Anthony, Rev. S. J. May, and several others.
The following resolutions were offered by Rev. Mr. May-they having been prepared for the meeting which was so unceremoniously broken up by a mob in the afternoon:-
Resolved, That nations-the mightiest as well as the least-are just as amenable to the government of Almighty God as are individual men; and may not violate with any more impunity his holy laws. 
Resolved, That the holding of human beings as pieces of property, and treating them like domesticated brutes, is the grossest outrage upon humanity, and the highest offence to the impartial Father of all, that men or nations can commit. The present condition of our country-the appalling corruption of our General Government; the moral darkness that broods over the people; and the disruption of our Union, are some of the retributive consequences of this our tremendous wickedness. 
Resolved, That American slavery is not sanctioned by the Lawgiver of the Jews, nor by the preaching of their prophets, the statements of Dr. Raphall and other Jewish and Christian Rabbies to the contrary notwithstanding. 
Resolved, That the Gospel of Jesus Christ gives no countenance to any kind of slavery-to oppression or injustice in any degree; and that they, who, like Mr. Van Dyke, of Brooklyn, have attempted to justify and uphold slavery on the authority of our sacred Scriptures, are the worst enemies of the Bible; and are to be accounted ministers of Belial rather than of Christ. 
Resolved, That the only escape for nations as well as individuals, from sin and its consequences, is by the way of unfeigned repentance; and that our proud Republic must go down to ruin unless the people shall be brought to repentance-shall be persuaded to " cease to do evil, and learn to do well; to seek justice, relieve the oppressed." Compromises with the wrong doers will only plunge us deeper in their iniquity. Civil war will not settle the difficulty, but complicate it all the more; and superadd rapine and murder to the sin of slaveholding. The dissolution of the Union even may not relieve us; for if slavery still remains in the land, it will be a perpetual trouble to the inhabitants thereof, whether they be separate or whether they be united. Slavery must be abolished, or there can be no peace within these borders. 
Resolved, That our General Government ought to abolish all Fugitive Slave Laws; for, unless they can dethrone God, the people will ever be under higher obligations to obey Him than to obey any laws, any constitutions that men may have framed and enacted. And the law of God requires us to befriend the friendless, to succor the distressed, to hide the outcast, to deliver the oppressed. 
Resolved, That we deeply deplore, and emphatically condemn, the advice given by Governor Morgan to the Legislatures of this and of other States, to repeal all Personal Liberty Laws. For this would be to expose all our poor people, (especially those who have the least mixture of African blood in their veins,) to seizure, extradition and enslavement.
Resolved, That the friends of Liberty and Humanity throughout the State, and all the free States, should flood their Legislatures with petitions to enact more stringent laws for the protection of the people. 
Resolved, That we are grieved, ashamed, indignant, that Mr. Seward, the chief leader of the Republican party, has declared before all Congress and the world, his readiness so to alter our Constitution, as to render the General Government of this Republic forever more powerless than it now is, to abolish slavery throughout the land. In God's name! for the sake of humanity! let the Magna Charta of our country be made better, and not worse; more explicit and ample in its provisions for the relief of the oppressed, and the maintenance of the self-evident, the inalienable, the God-given rights of man!
Resolved, That, as for obvious reasons often stated, and in accordance with the declared opinions of many distinguished Southerners, the dissolution of this Union would be the subversion of slavery, therefore, as Christians, as humane men, we cannot desire that the catastrophe, which seems now impending over us, should be averted, unless it be by the concession of the slave-holding States, that their bondmen shall be set free.
Resolved, That as the people of the free Slates have from the beginning been partakers in the iniquity of slavery-accomplices of the oppressors of the poor laborers at the South-therefore we ought to join hands with them in any well-devised measures for the emancipation of their bondmen. Our wealth, and the wealth of the nation, ought to be put in requisition to relieve those who may impoverish themselves by setting their captives free; to furnish the freed men with such comforts, conveniences, implements of labor as they may need; and to establish such educational and religious institutions, as will be indispensable everywhere, to enable them, and yet more, their children and children's children, to become what the free people-the citizens of self-governing States ought to be-intelligent, moral, religious. 
Resolved, That the abolition of slavery is the great concern of 
the American people, "the one thing needful" for them,-without which there can be no union, no peace, no political virtue, no real, lasting prosperity in all these once United States.
After some discussion the resolutions were adopted unanimously.
<c06>
BERIAH GREEN made one of his characteristic speeches, logical, terse and eloquent, advocating several amendments to the resolutions, making them more pointed in their application. 
Mr. POWELL followed in a speech denouncing both Democrats and Republicans. He said the Republican papers came out against them as strongly as the Democratic, but he would except the Standard and Journal of Syracuse. The Democratic papers are filled with the vilest abuse, calculated to encourage the mob spirit. The mobs will not listen to Republicans any more than to Abolitionists. Republicans cannot go South, yet they are all for the Union. Their newly elected President avows himself the chief slave hunter of the nation, and in favor of a good and effective Fugitive Slave Law. Why did the men who rescued Jerry vote for such a President? He concluded by expressing a hope in the ultimate triumph of Abolition principles. 
Mr. MONTGOMERY dissented from Mr. Powell. He thought slavery could be fought against under the Constitution, better than after dissolution. 
Mr. MERRICK asked why we could not as well live with slaveholders as with heathens?
Miss ANTHONY made a brief address on the Constitution and its provisions. 
BERIAH GREEN followed in a discussion of the Constitution and its proper interpretation. His idea of a conspiracy was when men gathered together to do an act of injustice. He referred to the mob which had taken possession of their Hall during the afternoon, and made some cutting remarks upon the leaders of the outrage. But he said we must bide our time until the people are brought to a true understanding of their rights. 
Rev. Mr. MAY made some remarks in relation to the meeting at Convention Hall, and 
Mr. MILLS offered the following resolutions:—
Resolved, That so far from its being untimely or inappropriate to stand forth for unpopular truths in seasons of great popular excitement, apprehension, and wide passionate denial of them, it is then preeminently timely, appropriate, and all vitally important, whether regarded in view of the paramount obligations of fealty to the Supreme King, or the sacred considerations of the redemption and welfare of mankind; and as it behooved then most of all to speak for Jesus, when Jesus was arraigned for condemnation and crucifixion, as it has ever been the bounden, and sooner or later the well acknowledged duty, of every friend of the truth in past history to stand firm, and ever firmer in its behalf, amid whatever wave of passion, malignity and madness, even though the multitude all shout, Crucify, and devils be gathered thick as tiles on the house-tops of Worms to devour,-so at the present hour it sacredly behooves Abolitionists to abide fast by their principles, and in the very midst of the present storm of passion and insane folly, in face of every assault, whether of threat or infliction, to speak for the slave and for man, and with an earnestness and pointed emphasis unknown before, to press home upon their countrymen the question daily becoming more imminent and vital, whether the few vestiges of freedom yet remaining shall be blotted out, and this entire land overswept with tyranny, violence and blood. 
Resolved, That the seizure and occupancy this day by an infuriate, drunken and howling mob of Convention Hall, a Hall hired for and belonging for the time being to this Convention, is an audacious, ruthless invasion of our primal and acknowledged rights, and of the rights of universal humanity as well, in which all men have vital stake; an unmitigated outrage, in which, not the immediate perpetrators are to be held as most of all guilty, but those who, concealed and reputed respectable, instigated them to their crime; an outrage in which the whole city of Syracuse, its leading influences, its city government, its prominent politicians, Republicans as well as others, its dominant Republican party, its thousands of quiet citizens, all with scarce an exception standing aloof in this hour, and many of them full for days previous of words of deprecation and ominous intimation against this Convention, are before God responsible-a shame and black-branding disgrace, which years of repentance and amendment cannot avail to wipe away-a dastardly surrender, a base unblushing prostitution and offering up of itself on the part of the community to slavery for its purpose of lust and debauchery; which testifies that this climax of atrocity and lawlessness has already all too surely and fearfully done its work here, and made a people incapable and unfit to protect their own liberties, in making them willing and ready to ravish, and to see ravished away on their own soil, the liberties of others.
The resolutions were adopted, and ordered to be published, as well as those offered by Mr. May.
After remarks by several speakers, Mr. Powell offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That having by an organized mob been excluded from Convention Hall, our hearty thanks are hereby extended to Dr. and Mrs. Pease, for the generous and timely proffer of their parlors for the use of this Convention.
The Convention then adjourned sine die. 
FREE SPEECH IN SYRACUSE.
At the hour designated for the anti-slavery meeting in Convention Hall, yesterday, a lot of rowdies in company with a few persons of "respectable"'' exterior, organized a meeting in the room, and, adopted a set of resolutions denouncing "Nigger Loguen," and approving of the Crittenden Compromise. The resolutions also said something about the necessity of maintaining the laws; but the turbulent and noisy demonstrations that were made during the proceedings, showed that the crowd cared very little about sustaining either law or order.
Mr. Loguen, whom these rowdies assail, is a very respectable citizen. It is true, he is a colored man, but his parents were half white, which is as much, and more, than can be said of the character of the rowdies, who seek to debase him. by styling him a Nigger. We should be sorry for him if he were weak enough to attempt to break up a public meeting, because the sentiments of the speakers did not harmonize with his own.
As for the Crittenden proposition, which received the endorsement of the meeting, we do not believe that one in fifty of the persons in this promiscuous assembly ever read it, or has a correct idea of its real character. Some of them doubtless know what it is, and it is a source of mortification that a scheme so monstrous should receive the endorsement of any such person, in this community.
There was likewise something said about sustaining the Union. This was all very well But one fact in this connection was overlooked, and that is, that the Union does not rest upon the shoulders of such persons as composed this meeting. It does not depend upon the mob for support. Its foundations are laid broad and deep in the hearts of the intelligent, law-abiding citizens of the country, and thus sustained, there is no fear of its destruction. Remorse always follows a wrong act; and we do not doubt that the better portion of those who have disgraced themselves and the city will ultimately regret having been connected with these lawless proceedings The Constitution and the laws guarantee the freedom of speech, and no good results have ever flowed from any attempt to violate this fundamental principle of free government.-Syracuse Standard,
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million, owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House; in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MORE DISGRACE FOR OUR CITY:
A Burlesque Procession-Burning in Effigy and other Outrageous Proceedings.
Last evening a mob of about twenty rowdies and loafers assembled at the usual rendezvous, James McGurk's Grocery in the Courier Building, and obtaining a Band and several transparencies and effigies which had been previously prepared by the leaders, these miserable tools marched through several streets of our city, and finally halted on Hanover Square, where some disgusting exercises took place, a few brutal speeches were made, and the effigies burned in a bonfire made upon the Square.
One of the effigies was in the form of a female, intended to represent Miss Anthony, and the other represented Rev. Mr. May: both were placarded with the name of the person they were intended to represent. The transparencies were as follows:-
THE JERRY RESCUERS PLAYED OUT!
THE RIGHTS OF THE SOUTH MUST BE PROTECTED!
FREEDOM OF SPEECH, BUT NOT OF TREASON!
ABOLITIONISM NO LONGER IN SYRACUSE!
Miller's Band had the honor to lead the procession, and Moses E. Hart was the principal orator, and we learn with pleasure that the orator announced his withdrawal from the Republican party, and his withdrawal from the Republican party, and his adherence to the Democratic creed. 
After the effigies were burned, the procession marched to the City Hall Park, when they gave three cheers for the Union, and dispersed.
The poor tools who figured in this outrage should be pardoned, for ï¿½they know not what they do,ï¿½ but the leaders who furnished funds and originated the disgraceful proceedings should be remembered and visited with a just retribution.-Syracuse Standard, Feb. 6th.
THE LATE OUTRAGE IN OUR CITY.
Meeting of Members of Rev. Mr. May's Society.
Immediately after the close of the evening services in the Unitarian Church, on Sunday evening. February 3d, Mr. D. P. Phelps requested the audience to be seated for a few moments, and said:-
In view of the occurrences of the past week, by which the fair fame of our city has been tarnished and placed under a cloud, and by which the personal rights of free speech and lawful assembly have been stricken down and trampled under the hoofs of a beastly mob, which common decency and common law should have alike suppressed; and in view also of the personal insults and indignities, which, in the occurrences alluded to, were specially directed to the minister of this society, a few of its members, who have had an opportunity to exchange views upon the subject, feel that it is due to themselves as good citizens, to the society of which they are members, and to their minister whom they respect and love, that they should express their abhorrence of the occurrences which have brought such deep disgrace upon the city, and that with calm, but indignant words they should resent the personal insults which their minister has received.
It was proposed to bring the subject up for action at the next business meeting of the society, which is appointed for Thursday week, but learning to-day that Mr. May, in fulfillment of an engagement, is to preach in Brooklyn the next two Sabbaths, I am not willing for myself to postpone the proposed action so long, and not permit him to appear in another pulpit than his own, without having initiated at least some proceedings in vindication of our self-respect, before he goes.
Believing that this same feeling which prompts me to this action is alive in all your hearts, and waits only an opportunity to give it form and expression. I move that we organize a public meeting, and for that purpose nominate James L. Bagg, Esq., as Chairman.
This motion, was carried by a full and hearty response.
Mr. H. N. White, Clerk of the Society, was appointed Secretary of the meeting.
On taking the Chair, Mr. Bagg remarked that he was called thereto without any previous intimation that such a meeting was to be held. But its object, as expressed by Mr. Phelps, accorded fully with the views and feelings he had entertained since the acts alluded to, and he was glad to find that such were the views of the entire Society. During his long residence in Syracuse, he had never known of such an outrage, or such a series of outrages, being committed here, and he never heard of any such being committed in any Christian land. He would not have believed that, within the limits of Syracuse-in a place where our minister had so long ï¿½lived and laboredï¿½-such a transaction could have taken place.
George L. Maynard seconded the motion of Mr. Phelps, in a few well-chosen remarks.
The Chair then announced the following as the committee: - D. P. Phelps, Lyman Clary, C. F. Williston, Hiram Putnam, P. H. Agan, W. Brown Smith, Oliver T. Burt.
The meeting then adjourned.-Ibid.

ASSUMING THE RESPONSIBILITY.
For a day or two after the recent riots and outrage at the Anti-Slavery Convention in this city, the Democrats were hardly willing to take the responsibility upon their shoulders, and own that the riotous proceedings were Democratic performances, only carrying out the principles of the party. But, since it has been ascertained that the rowdies are to be indicted, and held amenable to the offended laws of the country, the Democracy are forced to take the responsibility of the riots, and sustain their tools. The Courier defends them in its columns in its usual feeble and blackguard style; and in relation to the indictments, we find the following Democratic lawyers paraded as volunteer defenders of these immaculate exponents of Democratic principles and measures:-
LEGAL. The following named attorneys have been retained, and have tendered their services to those who were indicted, if any, on Saturday for ï¿½free speechï¿½ and free thought:-
Judge Pratt, W. C. Ruger, Gardner and Burdick, Clark and Horton, Gray and Bates, John Molloy, Hunt and Fryer, N. B. Smith.
Wonder how many of these legal gentlemen would have volunteered to defend a poor man who stood charged with any crime, except trampling upon the right of ï¿½freedom of speechï¿½?-Ibid.

SERMON ON FREE SPEECH. Rev. Mr. Strieby announced in the papers of Saturday, that he would preach on the subject of ï¿½Free Speech and a Free Pressï¿½ on Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock. At the hour appointed, the Plymouth Church was crowded to overflowing, and hundreds were obliged to go away, unable to obtain even standing room within the walls of the church. His sermon was an able exposition of the value of ï¿½Free Speech and a Free Press,ï¿½ and their importance to any people who are struggling for their liberties, or desire to perpetuate them after they are won. He was justly severe and pointed on the recent manifestations of the mob spirit in this city and in other cities of this State. His sermon was well received, and created an excellent impression. We wish we could find room for a full report of the sermon.-Ibid.

THE DISGRACE OF SYRACUSE. The Rochester Democrat gives a synopsis of the riotous proceedings of the procession on the evening of the recent Anti-Slavery Convention in Syracuse, and makes the following comments:-
ï¿½The Syracuse Democrats are evidently much ahead of their Rochester brethren in their devotion to mobocracy, and the extent of their debasement. In Rochester, the proceedings were tame compared to those said to have taken place in the City of Salt. If the latter place goes on at this rate, it will soon become entitled to a place in history by the side of Sodom and Gomorrah.ï¿½

CHARACTERISTIC. We hear it stated this morning, on good authority, that while the rowdies were burning Rev. Mr. May in effigy last evening, the Reverend gentleman was carrying provisions to the families of some of the drunken ruffians who were committing the outrage and insult, to keep their children from starring!-Ibid.
Yes-just like the ï¿½fanatic'
<c02>
ABOLITION CONVENTION AT AUBURN.
The Auburn Union has a racy account of the proceedings of the Anti-Slavery Convention at Auburn, Thursday last. The meeting in the afternoon does not appear to have been disturbed, but in the evening a motley crowd of rowdies and loafers assembled, and broke up the meeting, taking possession of the room, and organizing a meeting of their own, and passed the same resolutions adopted by the Syracuse mob meeting.
While the riot was at its height, says the reporter of the Union, Miss Anthony leaned over the desk and said, ï¿½Why, boys, you're nothing but a baby mobï¿½you ought to go to Syracuse, and learn how to do it, and also learn how to get before the Grand Jury.ï¿½
Dr. Morris, a gentleman well known in this city, was nominated by the mob for Chairman, but the mob soon found that they had caught a Tartar, and that Dr. Morris was not to be made a tool of to choke down free speech. The Union reporter describes the scene as follows:-
Doctor Morris was nominated as Chairman of the meeting, and the crowd said, ï¿½Aye, aye, Morris, Morris,ï¿½ and proposed three cheers for Doctor Morris, and they were given with a will. Doctor Morris came down from the back part of the hall near to the centre, and, among other things, said: ï¿½I am an Englishman and a Democrat. I was born under the sceptre of a king, but being early imbued with the principles of liberty, I came to America, this land of toleration and freedom, with great admiration for American institutions, and with almost a holy reverence for the constitutional law of this country which guaranteed freedom of speech to every inhabitant thereof. Cherishing these feelings, I came to this Hall to-night as a spectator and listener merely, to hear what Abolitionists should say in opposition to my political party, that I might find arguments with which to refute their positions.ï¿½ Then rising upon tip-toe, and elevating his arms above his head, he said: ï¿½What do you take me for? Do you think you can make of me a TOOL in the hands of a mob to put down these God-given and inherent rights of every American? Go to England, and beneath the crown of Victoria, learn what freedom is, for from your actions to-night, I plainly see that you are as ignorant as the new born babe, of the principles of your government.ï¿½ As the Doctor progressed in his remarks, the 100 to 150 adult males and boys came to the conclusion that they had caught a Tartar, and they began to groan and hiss, and one fellow cried out, ï¿½Go home to England, then, old beef eater,ï¿½-and so the mob didn't cheer Dr. Morris any longer, and didn't call ï¿½Morris,. Morris.ï¿½ and Dr. Morris was not considered a safe man for Chairman of their meeting.
George O. Rathburn made a speech, and at the conclusion Charles Hayden said:-
ï¿½Mr. Chairman.-As we are so near hell, I would suggest to your honor that this meeting be closed with prayer, if there is a clergyman present who will offer one. I am of the opinion that most of the crowd present have not heard such a thing for many years.ï¿½ He was answered by terrible groans and hisses from the mob, and an egg came whizzing past him. Some one then moved the meeting adjourn, and they did adjourn. 
The Abolitionists held a meeting at the dwelling of a citizen of Auburn, where they were not molested.-Onondaga Standard, Syracuse, Feb. 6th. 

THE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. 
The State Anti-Slavery Convention was held at Association Hall this evening. The attendance was very good. The Mayor had promised to protect free speech, and was present at the Convention this evening with a considerable police force. 
Lucretia Mott made a speech reviewing the anti-slavery movement, past and present, which was listened to with occasional interruptions of hissing. 
Beriah Green then took the stand and spoke for a few minutes, when he was hissed and stamped down by the rowdies. 
Gerrit Smith was loudly called for, but would not make a speech, saying that if they would not listen to his friend Green, they would have no speech from him. 
Mrs. Stanton then took the rostrum, and made a very impressive speech on the right, of free discussion, and the interest which the public have in its maintenance, concluding with a picture, in very dark colors, of Southern Secessionists, which was listened to with respectful attention. But when she attempted a portrait of the Northern Disunionists, that is, the Garrisonians, whom she painted as very pure and worthy people, engaged in a holy crusade against a monstrous and gigantic iniquity, the mobocrats hissed and stamped till the place became a perfect bedlam, and the meeting was finally broken up before the lady had concluded her remarks. 
The Mayor mounted the platform and made a speech to the mob, asking them to behave themselves like decent citizens, which was responded to by cheers for Buchanan and other persons of the Democratic persuasion. The mob finally, after a number of groans for the lady orators, dispersed. The Mayor seemed disposed to maintain free speech, but not to take the requisite measures to that end, which would have been the arrest and calaboosing of a half dozen of the leading ruffians. His Honor seemed to think that there was not more noise and disturbance than is usual at Democratic meetings, which the rowdies were probably in the habit of attending, and they therefore considered ruffianism perfectly in order.-Albany correspondence of the New York Tribune. 
SECOND DAYï¿½AFTERNOON SESSION. 
The second session of the State Anti-Slavery Convention was held at Association Hall yesterday afternoon. The attendance was rather slim at the hour announced for the commencement of proceedings, but it continued to increase until half-past 3 o'clock, when the hall was about two-thirds filled. 
Before the Convention was called to order, Mayor Thacher appeared on the stage, and announced that he should use every effort in his power to maintain and preserve order during the sittings of the Convention. He wanted the audience distinctly to understand that there was no child's play about the matter. He had said the previous night that the public had a right to express their approval or disapproval of the sentiments uttered at a public meeting, but he wished to inform them that if the Abolitionists chose to prescribe rules and regulations to govern, their sessions, and it was their will that no noise be made, he should consider it his duty to employ the police and the authorities to enforce the law. It might as well be understood by them first as last, that if mob law is to rule, they must conquer the authorities. He stated that he should do all he could to keep order; but if mob law was to triumph,
 it would do so because he could not help it. He said he was a Democrat, and he hoped that his fellow-citizens had confidence in him. He trusted that they would let the Abolitionists go on and say what they liked, because, if there is any sacred right on God's earth, it is the right of expression of sentiment. ï¿½So help me God,ï¿½ said he, ï¿½I will see the laws executed if it is in my power. The members of this Convention shall transact their business and speak, if it is in my power to grant them the privilege.ï¿½ At this point, Mr. Stephen McKnight. Democratic Supervisor of the 8th Ward, arose and demanded to know who composed the Convention. He denied the right of any person to stand up and say that he should not express his approbation or disapproval of what was going on. Mayor Thacher replied that the audience had no right to interfere with the Abolitionists so long as they had hired the hall, and paid for it, and prescribed rules of order. His Honor made an allusion to theï¿½ ï¿½goose and gander,ï¿½ when a facetious rough requested to be informed if ï¿½his goose hung high.ï¿½ Mr. McKnight then arose again, and claimed that he was a member of the Convention, inasmuch as he contributed his mite when the hat was passed round at the Convention a year ago, and that he had a perfect right to make demonstrations of approval or disapproval. 
Miss Susan B. Anthony stated that his contribution did not give him a right to disturb their meetings, but went towards the support of the great and glorious cause in which they were enlisted. 
Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose followed, and claimed that the Convention had a right to hold its meetings without interference. She said that a boarder in a hotel might as well take it upon himself to disturb the whole house, because he paid his $ 2.50 a day for board, as for one of an audience to undertake to interfere in a meeting of this kind. 
As a large portion of the audience was composed of men and boys, clamor and confusion rung in the hall, and for a time interrupted the proceedings of the Convention. At the first sign of a lull, Miss 
<c03>
Susan B. Anthony appeared, and read the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That the government of this country is, and ever has been, a cruel, bloody and unmitigated despotism, over the wrested rights, the prostrated bodies and benighted souls of millions of human beings; and so must remain as well under a Republican rule, based on the Chicago platform, and the declarations of Abraham Lincoln, as the Democratic administration of the present, and the Whig and Federal parties of the past. 
Resolved, That in the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency, we recognize, not so much a change in the party leaders and moving springs of the government, as in the people themselves, nor do we expect so much a change in the power on the throne, as has already appeared and is becoming more and more manifest in the power behind the throne, the PEOPLE themselves. And we confidently assure the Southern seceding States especially, that the New York Herald is the very best newspaper authority they can consult, as to the determination of the Northern people to resist, even unto death, every demand of the Slave Power; that whatever Congress may enact or repeal, or State Legislatures, led by demagogues, may decree, the people will repeal all ï¿½Fugitive Slave Laws,ï¿½ and will enact and execute, too, all manner of Personal Liberty Bills; will build and run a network of Underground Railroads, that shall people the Northern States with the best and bravest of the slaves; will give aid and comfort to every Nat Turner who rises in insurrection against his tyrant master; and will honor with Lafayette every John Brown who goes to his assistance and in every possible way the Herald has suggested they will, regardless of all laws, constitutions or demagogue dictation, oppose, obstruct, and trample on slavery with a view to its total and eternal destruction. 
Resolved, That coming up to this Convention from among the people, we hesitate not to warn the Southern States against any soft words, in or out of Congress, as to the safety and security of the slave system, under Mr. Lincoln's administration; for the people have voted for their President under the solemn assurance that there is, and is to be, ï¿½AN IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICTï¿½ with slavery to its utter extermination. 
Resolved, That in the present distractions and anarchy of American politics and parties, we see the fatal and inevitable result of attempting to found a government on concession and compromise, at the sacrifice of justice, liberty, and the Higher Law. 
Resolved, That now is the time, (it may be the last) for the North to absolve itself forever from such unrighteous confederation; and while the slave States are retiring from the Union, and demanding still more outrageous concessions and guarantees to slavery than now exist, they should be taken at their word, and the present Confederacy ended, never more to be reconstructed, except on condition of the immediate emancipation of every slave. 
During the reading of the resolutions, the confusion became so great that the Mayor ordered the gallery to be cleared. A posse of police at once enforced the order. The Mayor then directed the officers to disperse themselves among the audience, and maintain order at all hazards. Perfect quiet existed during the afternoon. Miss Anthony made some remarks, after which Gerrit Smith appeared in response to loud calls. 
Mr. Smith said he disagreed with the members of the Convention on some points. Miss Anthony in her address had stated that the Constitution was a pro-slavery paper. He disagreed with her, and rather considered it an Abolition paper. In answer to a question, he said that he proposed to abolish slavery by moral suasion, and not by purchasing the slaves and liberating them. He was not in favor of the slaves shedding the blood of their masters to secure their freedom. He considered that the men who tried John Brown, and the Senate Committee at Washington last winter, who summoned witnesses from all parts of the country in regard to the matter, had no right to do as they did. In reply to a question as to whether he thought John Brown was right in invading Virginia, he replied that he didn't go with Brown if he intended to take life, but if he meant to free the poor slaves by running away with them, he had his fullest sympathy. He said that our government in principle was all right, but its practice was the most accursed thing on the face of the earth. 
A man in the audience who evidently thought he was saying something smart, asked him his views in regard to amalgamation. Mr. Smith replied that he married a white woman, but if the questioner preferred for himself a squaw or negroes, he should not interfere with him. He was of the opinion that slavery would soon pass away; it had received its death-blow in England, and was dying in Brazil. He did not agree with the North in the secession matter, and thought the South was showing a good deal of worldly wisdom in the movement. He concluded by expressing his conviction that slavery would soon disappear, and that disunion would result in its complete overthrow. 
Frederick Douglass then came forward, and announced that he would make a speech in the evening. The Convention then adjourned. 

EVENING SESSION.
The Convention met again at 71/2 o'clock, and was called to order by the President, Mrs. Wright. The audience was considerably larger than at any other session. The ladies, about one hundred and fifty in number, occupied the gallery. The Mayor and Chief of Police Adams were present, and about forty officers were scattered about the Hall to preserve order. 
The first speaker was Mr. George W. Putnam, of Peterboro'. He addressed the audience about half an hour on the question of slavery, and was not interrupted. He was followed by Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose, who made a speech strongly denunciatory of the South, declared herself a Democrat, claimed to have helped to elect Lincoln, because she considered anti-slavery principles true Democracy; called James Buchanan a miserable coward, gave Mr. Seward a sharp rub, and prophesied that he would never be elected President if he was in favor of compromise with the South. She was allowed to proceed without interference, with the exception of a few hisses which were heard when she denounced the course of J. B. 
Frederick Douglass was next called out. For a time he was heard with attention, but when he diverged from anti-slavery sentiments, and began to compare his audience to the Southern slaves, because a police force was present to maintain order, symptoms of displeasure were manifested. The roughs did not relish his words when he declared that the officers were their masters, and that he rejoiced to see that they were compelled to obey them. As he proceeded, his remarks became so offensive to some that they began to retire from the Hall. About this time an officer espied a fellow who persisted in stamping loudly after being requested to keep quiet, and after a struggle he succeeded in ejecting him from the Hall. At this juncture the audience arose en masse, the officers rallied to the support of their comrade, and the roughs crowded to the rescue of the prisoner. Things looked exciting for a short time, but by the energetic, action of the police, order was soon restored, and the speaker continued his remarks without further interruption other than a few hisses and rounds of applause. The fellow who was put out made an effort to get in again, declaring that he had paid his money for admission to the Hall, &c., but he did not succeed. A crowd of sympathizers with him assembled on the stairway, and hooted and cheered with a view of creating a disturbance, but without accomplishing their object. They then adjourned to the front of the Hall, and yelled vociferously. Had it not been for the presence of the police, there is no doubt but that Douglass would have been severely handled, and some of the roughs seemed inclined to make demonstrations on Mayor Thacher himself, for insisting upon the maintenance of order. 
At the conclusion of Douglass's remarks, Susan B. Anthony announced that Gerrit Smith would speak in the Assembly Chamber this afternoon, and that a Woman's Rights Convention would be held at Association Hall to-morrow afternoon and evening. She also moved that a vote of thanks be tendered to the Mayor and the police force, for their exertions in preserving order and enforcing the laws, which was carried with great applause. The President then declared the Convention adjourned sine die, and left the Hall after the crowd, cheering Mayor Thacher, the police, and the ï¿½What is it?ï¿½ The speakers and lady members of the Convention were escorted to the Delavan House by a squad of twenty-five or thirty officers, followed by a crowd of two or three hundred shameless men and boys, who hooted and yelled in derision along the entire distance. Upon seeing the objects of their spite safely housed, they dispersed without any further demonstrations. 
It is not because we have, or have not, any sympathy with the objects of the Convention, but because we believe in Free Speech, and rejoice to see it vindicated, because we prize the good name of the city, and rejoice to know it redeemed, that we chronicle with satisfaction and pride the completeness and promptness of the police arrangements for preserving the public order.-Albany Republican Statesman, February 6th.
<c04>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1861.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY STRUGGLE.
The New York Herald of the 7th inst., devotes two ges and a half-or fifteen solid columns in the small type-to a history of the Anti-Slavery Movement this country, preceded by an introductory typoaphical display of topics as follows:-
ï¿½American Abolitionism. Its Four great Epochs. Legation in Congress and Agitation Out. British Interference. The Character, Object, Progress and Effect of Faticism. Various Plans of Emancipation Proposed. Interference of Religion and Women. Insurrections, Rescues, iots, Blood and Crime. What Abolitionists have Accomplished. The Present Political Convulsion-&c., &c., &c.ï¿½
This pretended history is, of course, a jumble of fact and fiction, distortion and impudence, misrepresentation and slang, such as no other paper but the Herald should concoct, and worthy of its paternity. Its admission, however, as to the growth and power of Abolitionism is note-worthy, coming from such an impalpable enemy:ï¿½
ï¿½It has entered into everything, great and small, high, and low, political, theological, social and moral, and in one action has become the standard by which all excellence is to be judged. It has become the grand question of the <illegible>-of politics, of ethics, of expediency, of justice, of conscience, and of law, covering the whole field of human society and divine government... As a party, they have become so strong that
Having both the key 
Of officer and office, they can set all hearts 
To what tune they please.
They have upturned the Presbyterian, Methodist and Baptist churches, and divided into antagonistic parties the American Board of Foreign Missions, the American Home Missionary Society, the American Tract Society,ï¿½ &C., &C.
Besides, making the election of Abraham Lincoln possible, on a Territorial question, by the votes of all the Free States!
This being true, we venture diffidently to suggest to Mr. Richard S. Fay, Mr. J. Murray Howe, Mr. George Lunt, Mr. Mayor Wightman. and their dirty, drunken, mobocratic allies of North street, whether it is not rather a hopeless task for them, at this late hour, to attempt to put an end to the Anti-Slavery ï¿½agitation,ï¿½ in the manner recently resorted to by them in this city. If the infant Hercules could not be strangled in his cradle, by all the brute force of the nation actively combined, is it probable that he can be by pigmy hands, now that he is full grown? As no public man, however popular or mightyï¿½no religious sect, however numerous or influentialï¿½no political party, however dominant or potentialï¿½have ever yet arrayed themselves against the Abolition cause without open discomfiture and positive loss, and without giving a fresh impetus to that cause, who or what may now hope to suppress it by any device whatever? It is incapable of intimidation; it disregards all threats and all assaults; it laughs to scorn, all projects for ï¿½conciliationï¿½ and ï¿½compromise;ï¿½ whether resisted or let alone, its growth is vigorous and its course onward; its elements are justice, mercy, goodness and truth; its object is freedom for all who are deprived of its inestimable blessings; it is divinely inspired and sustained; no weapon against it can prosper; it will assuredly succeed. 
The Herald scribbler, in giving a most exaggerated account of the Nat Turner insurrection in Virginia in the summer of 1831, says about that time, publications; began to be scattered through the South, whose direct tendency was to stir up insurrection among the slavesï¿½the Liberator found its way mysteriously into the hands of the negroesï¿½and individuals, under the garb of religion, were discovered in private consultation with the slaves. Referring to Nat Turner, he says-ï¿½t is a matter of notoriety, that secret agents of abolition had corrupted and betrayed (!) him.ï¿½-These are lying statements. Nat Turner never saw an abolitionist, and knew not of the existence of the Liberator; and even if he had read the few numbers that had then been published, he would not have found in them any incentive to insurrection. Of the millions of tracts subsequently published by the American Anti-Slavery Society; there never was one that gave any countenance to violence on the part of the slaves; on the contrary, some of these very tracts, which were, taken out of the rifled mails at Charleston, S. C., (always the head quarters of all possible ruffianism and perfidy,) and burnt to ashes by the populace, contained the strongest appeals to the slaves not to resort to the sword, but to trust in God and the promulgation of his truth as the method of bringing slavery to a peaceable termination. 
The mendacious historian (!) of the Herald further represents, that the following extract from an abolition journal (of course, no journal in particular is given) was read by a gentleman (of course, the name of the gentleman is wanting) to his terrified family at the South (of course, no locality is designated)-
ï¿½The news from the South is glorious. General Nat is a benefactor of his race. The Southampton massacre is an auspicious era for the African. The blood of the men, women and children shed by the sword and the axe in the hand of the negro is a just return for the drops which have followed the master's lash.ï¿½
This extract is a forgery. The Liberator at Boston, and the Genius of Universal Emancipation at Washington, were the only Anti-Slavery journals then printed; and neither of them ever had such an article in its columns. 
A word, however, as to the Nat Turner insurrection. The Herald libeller attempts to make a harrowing display of the work of carnage performed by Turner and his associates; but says nothing of the hellish cruelty practised upon them, and upon multitudes of innocent colored persons, afterward, by the infuriated whites, whose ferocious retaliation nothing could exceed. Such deeds were perpetrated as might well cause the earth to shudder, and the. heavens to be veiled in impenetrable darkness. The killing of a few white Virginians was, of course, a very horrible affair, though it was done in self-defence against the most ruthless of all oppressors, after years of systematic degradation, insult and torture, and solely to obtain inalienable and God-given rights most wickedly withheld; but an indiscriminate slaughter of the oppressed, and in many cases by the most torturing process, in the very spirit of fiends, is the acme of justice, and should excite no other feelings than those of exulting approval! 
In sketching the Boston mob of 1835, the Herald historian compliments it as ï¿½a rabble,ï¿½ but ï¿½of a perfectly genteel character.ï¿½ It was also distinguished for it ï¿½gentleness,ï¿½ which gentleness caused us, at the time of our seizure, to become ï¿½pale and convulsed,ï¿½ (!) and led us to exclaim, as we ï¿½sank exhaustedï¿½ in the cell to which we were committed, ï¿½Never was man so rejoiced to get into jail before!ï¿½ A remarkable effect of gentleness indeed! It is needless for us to say, that no such exclamation ever came from our lipsï¿½no such thought ever entered our mind. We make no boast of our courage; but it is in the midst of such tumults we have always found our calmest self-possession. 
The misrepresentations of this writer are equally malicious and numerous; but the source from which they come place them beneath refutation. He seems to be greatly troubled in view of what the Anti-Slavery women are doing! He declares that ï¿½they have become not only regardless of the human suffering which may result from their course, but of the inevitable tendencies of their influence towards the overthrow of the Government itself!ï¿½ How appalling! Privately, it is our opinionï¿½as a believer in the Declaration of Independenceï¿½that all the women in the world would be justified in seeking the overthrow of every existing government by their influence, with reference to their own rights in special,- seeing that ï¿½all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed,ï¿½ and that ï¿½taxation and representationï¿½ should be correlative, and that women, though often heavily taxed, are as much excluded from all participation in the management of
<c05>
government and the enactment of laws as though they belong to the brute creation. ï¿½Half the homes of the North,ï¿½ he tells us, ï¿½are thus turned into perfect pandemonium's of discussion. Breakfast, dinner and tea are made the occasions of family debate, and the sweet morsel of nigger is as lovingly rolled under their tongues as if he was one of the necessary aids to a healthy digestion.ï¿½ What is still more alarming, some of ï¿½these women edit newspapers, write books, peddle tracts, deliver lectures, and constantly in one shape or another keep themselves notorious in the public printsï¿½! And it is well known to the civilized world, that ï¿½one of the most effective of these feminine offsprings ever brought to bear upon the public mind was Uncle Tom's Cabinï¿½! What shall be done with ï¿½these womenï¿½? ï¿½Harriet Beecher Stowe has had the satisfaction of throwing a firebrand into the world, which has kept up a furious blaze ever since.ï¿½ What punishment shall be meted out to her for writing Uncle Tom's Cabin?- seeing as the alarmist admits, ï¿½no other book ever passed through so many editions, either in America or Europeï¿½having been translated into most of the Continental languages, and placed upon the stage in a dramatic form in almost every city of the Union!ï¿½ What unparalleled criminality! 
This hodge-podge narrative in the Herald, of the rise and progress of the Anti-Slavery movement in America, will prove serviceable in one particular at leastï¿½showing, as it truthfully does, the brutal and lawless course pursued by the enemies of that movement from its commencement till now, in every form of mobocratic demonstration and by every poisonous weaponï¿½but all in vain! The cause of God cannot be overthrown.

THE TRUE STATE OF THE QUESTION. 
It cannot be truthfully denied, that the slaveholding South,ï¿½which is the same thing as the Slave owner or the Slave Power or the Slave Oligarchy,ï¿½has had the control of the National Government ever since its formation in 1789 until the present time. Never has there been an hour, during this period of more than seventy years, when it had not its imperial hand upon the U. S. Supreme Court, the National Executive, Congress, the Army and Navy, the Treasury, if not to mould them absolutely to its will, at least to make them subservient to its dictation in every important measure pertaining to the security and expansion of slavery. The Free States have always been treated as ï¿½conquered provinces,ï¿½ rather than as equalsï¿½always driven ignominiously to the wall in every encounterï¿½always deprived of their just share in the offices and emoluments of the governmentï¿½always successfully bullied, cheated, and humbledï¿½although always superior in population, wealth, intelligence and enterprise. In the various Presidential struggles, the South, like the North, has been divided in sentiment as to the various candidates; but never before has she been united in opposition to the successful nominee, as in the case of Abraham Lincoln, and, of course, never before defeated. It would seem but fair, therefore, that at length the interests of Freedom should be consulted; that the national rule should change hands; that the South should be as submissive for the coming seventy years as the North has been, in order to rightly adjust the balances. Instead of this, the first Northern victory at the polls is the signal for her revolt; and before the inauguration of the new President,-even under the administration of their own choosing,-six of the slave States violently dissolve the Union, fire upon its flag, appropriate with robber hands nearly every arsenal, fortification, custom-house, mint, and other property of the United States within their grasp, blockade the Mississippi river, and form an independent Confederacy, flinging defiance at the free North, and resorting to every outrage to provoke a civil war! The slave States that have not yet formally seceded only remain to see how far they can humiliate the North by new and still more degrading exactions, and to overawe the government by threatening to make common cause with the rebellious States if it shall attempt to recover any of its stolen property, or to enforce the laws of the land against them. The treason is universal, but a portion of the traitors are dissembling for a time, to enable the conspiracy to perfect all its plans both at home and abroad. So murderous is their spirit, that every precaution is needed to prevent the destruction of the railroad train carrying the President elect to Washington, and so desperate their purpose to seize the Capital by a coup d'-etat, that Gen. Scott has found it indispensable to invest it with troops, and to plant cannon for its protection in every exposed point! It is quite doubtful, however, whether, with all these preparations, the Capital is safe. It is only for Virginia and Maryland to give the signal, and in a single day their military forces could pour into Washington, ï¿½like a herd of wild buffaloes,ï¿½ to use the language of Henry A. Wise, overcoming all oppositionï¿½driving out Congress at the point of the bayonet, proclaiming a new government, and inaugurating a new President. It has been our settled conviction that Mr. Lincoln will not be permitted to occupy the position to which he has been elected; and this conviction has been strengthened, rather than weakened, by the crafty policy of Virginia in summoning what she calls a Peace Convention at the Capital, which is now in sessionï¿½a snare and a mockery! Trojans! beware of the wooden horse! The most astounding events may happen before the fourth of March. 
So much for the South. Let us see how her detestable perfidy and abhorrent treason are regarded a the North. 
First, as to the press. Our exchange list is a large one; but we look in vain to find in any Democratic or Bell-Everett journal one word of indignant condemnation of the Southern rebellion. No call is made for the arrest and punishment of any of the traitorsï¿½no treason is acknowledged to have been committedï¿½no blame is imputed to them for any thing they have done or threatenedï¿½the right of secession, ad libitum, (of course, only so far as the slave States are concerned!-it would be treason in Massachusetts even to think of it!) is boldly avowedï¿½President Buchanan is admonished that, in every such case, ï¿½the preservation of the Union and the enforcement of the laws,ï¿½ (their own party catch-words,) would be unwarrantable ï¿½coercionï¿½ and ï¿½civil warï¿½-the Republican party and its representative men are assailed with redoubled malignity and fury, and held responsible for all that has been done at the South, and insolently called to surrender all their principles, and write themselves down as the vilest hypocrites and the basest factionistsï¿½and all the mobocratic elements are set in motion to break up every anti-slavery gathering and suppress freedom of speech. It is thus that journals like the Boston Courier and Post, the New York Journal of Commerce and Express, are daily giving the strongest encouragement to the Southern traitors and buccaneers, while hypocritically pretending to be anxious for the preservation of the Union! 
Next, as to the various conventions held by the same parties. Their resolutions and speeches are saturated with treasonable sentiments,-teeming with the vilest abuse of the people of the North for presuming to vote for Abraham Lincoln,-full of menace in case of any attempt by President Buchanan to uphold the Constitution and laws,-and expressly designed to overthrow the incoming administration by encouraging every kind of usurpation and violence. 
It is evident, therefore, that the plot to subvert the government is universal; that, wearing the mask of ï¿½conciliationï¿½ and ï¿½compromise,ï¿½ traitors of a kindred spirit to those in Carolina are infesting every city, town and village at the North, whose motto is, ï¿½Rule or ruin!ï¿½ With a very few exceptions, the Democratic and Bell-Everett partisans are manifestly ripe for ï¿½treason, stratagem and spoils,ï¿½ and ready to make common cause with the South, by a bloody process, if need be, to give her the supremacy over the whole country, on a scale of unlimited power. Their hatred of free institutions is intense and all-controlling; so that, should the Capital be seized, and Mr. Lincoln deposed, as already intimated, they would
<c06>
ratify the deed by acclamation as a wise and patriotic measure, imperatively demanded by the exigencies of the times, and made necessary by a due regard to the national safety and prosperity! This the South intelligently understands; and therefore the boldness of her acts, and her assurance that, in case of a struggle with the Federal government,-especially after the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln,-she can kindle the flames of civil war from the Eastern boundary to the Western prairies. Did not Mr. Caleb Cushing make a bloody prophecy of this kind, months ago, in Faneuil Hall, and was it not vociferously applauded?
In this extraordinary combination of trying circumstances, where stands the victorious Republican party! Its fugleman, Mr. Seward, is smitten with idiocy, denies the ï¿½irrepressible conflict,ï¿½ avows his belief that a perfect reconciliation can be effected between Christ and Belial, thinks it not difficult to ï¿½circumvent God.ï¿½ by a fresh compromise, sees not why fire and gun-powder in contact need make an explosion, and cries ï¿½Peace, peace, when there is no peaceï¿½-and can be none while a slave is left in his chains. Mr. Charles Francis Adams ï¿½roars like a sucking-dove,ï¿½ and enticingly declares that the Personal Liberty Laws, being of no practical value, may be properly repealed to avoid irritation, and that New Mexico, having only a score of slaves, may be admitted into the Union as a State, without any detriment to the cause of freedom! Mr. Corwin (who seems to be destitute of a moral sense) goes for the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law to the letter-for any kind of compromise that will propitiate the Southern rebels-and for restricting the freedom of the press, in opposition to slavery, by fine and imprisonment! He is as bad as the worst, and a disgrace to Ohio. It is such men who sap the public virtue, and strike at the foundation of civil liberty. He ought to be drummed out of the Republican camp to the tune of the ï¿½Rogueï¿½s march.ï¿½ In every direction, with noble exception, the party is faltering, and exhibiting signs of general demoralization, through the bullying, cunning and clamor of its political opponents, who hope thus once more to gain the ascendancy. Had it stood resolutely upon its platform, and indignantly turned a deaf ear to all overtures to compromise its principles and betray the cause of liberty, it would have gathered fresh strength, and added greatly to its numbers. It is much to the credit of Mr. Lincoln, that he has maintained his dignity and self-respect intact, and gives no countenance to any of the compromises that have yet been proposed.

ï¿½NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!ï¿½
The Union formed in 1789 is at last dissolved through the secession, without cause, of six of the slave States, the complicity of the remainder, and the imbecility and perfidy of President Buchanan. These six States have organized themselves into a Southern Confederacy, and unanimously elected Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, President, and Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia, Vice President. All this has been done, we repeat, without cause. It is an act purely factious and flagrantly treasonable. The Constitution remains unchanged in its letter and spirit; the laws of Congress, in conformity thereto, are everywhere at the North observed in good faith; no violence has been done or attempted toward the South. The Republican party are not yet in power, and therefore have had no trail of their integrity. Until they undertake to set aside the Constitution, adversely to the rights or interests of the South, on no justifiable pretence whatever can any slave State withdraw from the Union. ï¿½Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.ï¿½ Suspicion of latent perfidy in one direction is no excuse for open treason in another. The loyalty of the Republican party to the Union, as understood and upheld by Washington and Jefferson, admits of no impeachment. They allow no scruples of conscience to prevent their fulfillment of all its conditions, and during the late Presidential campaign were more zealous in its laudation than their opponents. The platform adopted by them at Chicago proposes no change in the Fugitive Slave Law, no interference with the inter-State slave trade, no abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia; and if it did, the party would have the constitutional right to take such action. No law of Congress is beyond modification or repeal by the same body; the power of Congress over the District of Columbia is absolute; and for the slavery and slave code existing in that District, no particular State, but the whole country, is responsible; the domestic slave traffic may be regulated or suppressed, like any other traffic, by the authority conceded to Congress by the Constitution. But the Republican platform carefully and intentionally ignores all these issues; and to show that it entertains no design or wish to interfere with slavery at the South, it expressly declares ï¿½that the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially THE RIGHT OF EACH STATE TO ORDER AND CONTROL ITS OWN DOMESTIC INSTITUTIONS according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of powers on which the perfection and endurance of our political fabric depends.ï¿½ At no time has any member of the Republican party, in either House of Congress, made, or thought of making, any proposition for the exercise by that body of any power with reference to slavery in any slave State. Throughout the late campaign, disclaimers were constantly made by the party and its leaders of the existence of any such right; and the constitutional limitations on this subject, precisely as understood by the old Whig and Democratic parties, and endorsed by the whole people ever since the formation of the Constitution, most scrupulously and accurately defined. Mr. Lincoln honestly and truly represents the platform of his party-a platform in which not a sentiment is to be found, having a direct relation, to slavery, contrary to the views entertained by all political parties twenty years ago. It is not that the Republican party is guilty of any aggression or intermeddling, any way wardness or injustice; but the South has wholly changed its former position, and insists upon undreamed-of subserviency to its tyrannical dictation.
The charge against the Abolitionists, that they are for interfering with slavery by the Federal Government, or by congressional enactment, is equally false and malicious. Daniel Webster, in a letter to John Bolton, Esq., of Savannah, said-
ï¿½In my opinion, the domestic slavery of the Southern States is a subject within the exclusive control of the States themselves; and this, I am sure, is the opinion of the whole North. Congress has no authority to interfere in the emancipation of slaves, or in the treatment of them, in any of the States. The imputations which you say, and say truly, are constantly made against the North, are, in my opinion, entirely destitute of any just foundation.ï¿½
Commenting upon this letter, the official organ of the American Anti-Slavery Society said-
ï¿½Mr. Webster's opinion on the subject of slavery in the States of this Union, so far as expressed, is just the same as has been more than once avowed in every Anti-Slavery paper in the country-that it is a subject within the exclusive control of the States themselves.ï¿½
Endorsing the letter of Mr. Webster, we said in the Liberator-
ï¿½Abolitionists as clearly understand, and as sacredly regard, the constitutional powers of Congress, as do any of their traducers; and they know, and have again and again asserted, that Congress has no more rightful authority to sit in judgment upon Southern slavery, than it has to legislate for the abolition of slavery in the French colonies.ï¿½
In the Declaration of Sentiments, drawn up by us, and adopted by the National Anti-Slavery Convention at Philadelphia in 1833, it is declared-
ï¿½We freely and unanimously recognize the sovereignty of each State, to legislate exclusively on the subject of slavery which is tolerated within its limits; we consider that Congress has no right to interfere with any of the slave States in relation to this subject.ï¿½
The Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society, as adopted at that time, declared-
ï¿½While it admits that each State in which slavery exists has, by the Constitution of the United States, exclusive right to legislate in regard to its abolition, it shall aim to convince all our fellow-citizens, by arguments addressed to their understandings and consciences, that slaveholding is a heinous sin against God.ï¿½
This states the position and object of the Society with religious fidelity. Its mission was, and is a purely moral one, being an appeal to the understand.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ing and conscience for the removal of slavery,-just as is done for the suppression of intemperance, war, gambling, licentiousness, and idolatry in heathen lands. This is its "fanaticism,” if "infidelity," its "treason," its invasion of the "rights" of Southern slaveholders!
In proof that the Abolitionists have been true to their declarations, respecting non-legislative interference with slavery at the South, white they have sent to Congress hundreds of petitions for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, over which that body has "exclusive jurisdiction," they have never sent a single petition to it, asking for its action for the emancipation of any other portion of the slaver population.
The seceding States, therefore, whether in regard to the position of the Abolitionists or the Republican party, are left utterly without excuse. Theirs is not revolution or rebellion in the spirit and after the pattern of '76, but treachery, perjury, treason of the blackest character, for the worst of purposes. Their subjugation, and the punishment of the leading traitors, are fully authorized by the Federal Government; and when that Government ceases to maintain its rightful sovereignty, the American Union ceases to exist.
Under these circumstances, what is the true course to be pursued by the people of the North? Is it to vindicate this sovereignty by the sword till the treason is quelled and allegiance restored? Constitutionally, the sword may be wielded to this extent, and must be, whether by President Buchanan or President Lincoln, if the Union is to be preserved. The Federal Government must not pretend to be in actual operation, embracing thirty-four States, and then allow the seceding Slates to trample upon its flag, steal its property, and defy its authority with impunity; for it would then be (as it is at this moment) a mockery and a laughing-stock. Nevertheless, to think of whipping the South (for she will be a unit on the question of slavery) into subjection, and extorting allegiance from millions of people at the cannon's mouth, is utterly chemical. True, it is in the power of the North to deluge her soil with blood, and inflict upon her the most terrible sufferings; but not to conquer her spirit, or change her determination.
What, then, ought to be done? The people of the North should recognize the fact that THE UNION IS DISSOLVED, and act accordingly. They should see, in the madness of the South, the hand of God, liberating them “from "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," made in a time of terrible peril, and without a conception of its inevitable consequences, and which has corrupted their morals, poisoned their religion, petrified their humanity as toward the millions in bondage, tarnished their character, harassed their peace, burdened them with taxation, shackled their prosperity, and brought them into abject vassalage. They should now understand, what it is amazing they have never yet apprehended, that as between Christ and Belial there can be no concord, so there can be no union between Freedom and Slavery-free institutions and slaw institutions-free labor and slave labor—freemen and slaveholders. These are eternally antagonistically elements, like the spirit warring against the flesh, and the flesh against the spirit-like the repulsion existing between "the children of the bondwoman and the children of the free.” It is an "irrepressible conflict," excited and carried on, not by William H. Seward, but by God himself. It was an insane attempt, from the beginning, to think of uniting in one form of” government hostile interests, hostile ideas, hostile principles, hostile measures, hostile purposes two Gods, one for liberty, the other for slavery—two Christs, one our for liberty, the other for slavery-two Christ's, one for redeeming, the other for enslaving men-two religions, one asserting the right of every human being to freedom, the other dooming four millions and their posterity to chattel servitude. It is insanity to think of trying the same experiment any longer. No matter what concessions may be made, or what compromises granter-there can be no peace until liberty or slavery be driven from the land.
Now, then, let there be a CONVENTION OF THE FREE STATES called to organize an independent government on free and just principles; and let them say to the Slave States-“ Though you are without excuse, for your treasonable conduct, depart in peace!
Though you have laid piratical hands upon property not your own, we surrender it all in the spirit of magnanimity! And if nothing but the possession of the Capital will appease you, take even that, without a struggle! Let the line be drawn between us where free institutions end, and slave institutions begin Organize your own confederacy, if you will, based upon violence, tyranny and blood, and relieve us from all responsibility for your evil course!
Take your land of sun and bloom;
Only leave to Freedom room 
For her plough, and forge, and loom 
Take your slavery-blackened valet;
Leave us but our own free gales,
Blowing on our thousand sails.
While the curse of unpaid toil,
Downward through your generous soil
Like a fire shall burn and spoil;
Our bleak hills shall bud and blow,
Vines our rocks shall overgrow,
Plenty in our valleys flow.
We but ask our rocky strand,
Freedom's true and brother band,
Freedom's strong and honest hand,-
Valleys by the slave untrod,
And the Pilgrim's mountain sod,
Blessed of our father's God!
And let all the people of the Free States unitedly shout, AMEN, and AMEN!

THANKSGIVING IN FANEULL HALL.
"Ah! luckless speech, and bootless boast!"
"Dropping buckets into empty wells,
And growing old in drawing nothing up."
"Cry, Marmion to the Rescue! Vain!"
Spending half-an-hour last Tuesday in Faneuil Hall, in” the "Conciliation Meeting "which will fail to conciliate, I had the fortune to hear most of what was probable the best speech made on that occasion, the speech of Judge Curtis.
One who has never heard Mr. “Webster speak can get a good idea both of his matter and manner, his thought and language, by listening to Judge Curtis With a solidity of figure which is getting to resemble Mr. Webster's, Judge Curtis has a similar deliberate dignity of manner, a similar clearness of style, and a weight, combined with moderation, in every sentence, like that with which the departed orator filed the attention of his hearers.
The character of the audience was shown by the fact that the best parts of this speech passed without applause. The manliness and independence shown in it were as little acceptable to the hunkers, young and old, of Boston, as they will be to the slaveholders; and the many concessions which the speaker, declared his readiness to make to that class will be contemptuously rejected by them, because the speech was not absolutely and solely "a mush of concession." Let it be remembered to this gentleman's credit, that, even in the "conciliation meeting," he had the frankness to say that the South as well as the North was in the wrong; and to pronounce his deliberate conviction, that when on the slaveholders asked for a concession to them of “everything which, under any circumstances, and of any extent, and through all time, may be acquired by the United States south of a parallel of latitude, with the consent of & bare majority of those voting in the houses of Congress" they were "asking for something not a little extraordinary." These portions of the speech were heard in silence.
Another resemblance to Webster shown in this address was the plausible manner of putting the sophistical portions of it. When Webster was induced to degrade himself by proposing that the people of Massachusetts should favor and help slavery as readily as freedom, he requested them to "conquer their prejudices” So when Judge Curtis wished to make the monstrous concession that the Northern people should suffer the most brutal of tyrannies to crash four millions of their fellow-beings in the slave States, with-
<c02>
out using any influence in any manner whatever, either to help the present sufferers, or to curb and limit the abominable "institution," he craftily said that it was the plain duty of the people of the free States to avoid interfering with slavery in the other States "either by force or fraud " As if all such interference which is not forcible must of course be fraudulent!
In all this there is one comfort. Mean as many of our Boston merchants and politicians are, they cannot get up even a "conciliation” meeting" without come alloy of manliness and independence in it which will cause the slave-drivers to reject it with contempt. Again have the concessionists "dirtied themselves for nothing." C. K. W.

OUR DUTIES IN THE PRESENT CRISIS. 
In this hour of trial, when high public functionaries take counsel of their fears, and give audience to traitors in the capitol, it becomes the American people to inquire into and keep steadily in view the meaning of the splendid theories upon which they profess to act.
When the "fathers" uttered so many glorious sayings, and stamped them into the head and front of the people, what did they mean? For what do we cherish their memories, if it be not for their courage to maintain and enforce principles which cannot die? In this crisis, it becomes us to decide, now and forever, whether these principles have any vital force, and whether it be possible to apply them at this time in these United States. Are all men born free and equal? Does our republicanism, in its essential nature, hinge on the "knowledge and wisdom "of the people, and in the absence of these imperishable elements, is republicanism possible? Is American slavery wrong? Is liberty right? Is it unerring evidence of our enlightenment, that we hate the one, and love the other; and do we mean, in the spirit of wisdom, to do justice to both? Have we religion which points us to the skies? Have we morality which respects our neighbor's rights? Have we honor more to be cherished than life? Do we thirst for nobler culture? Do we aspire to higher ends, and are we determined to preserve from decay this great country, and hand it down, unimpaired, to untold millions of enlightened and happy freemen? Are the people the sovereign, and are their representatives the masters, or the servants? If the people declare, by their votes, that slavery is wrong, and liberty right, is that noble declaration to pass unheeded by the public servants as an, empty abstraction? Who tells us to "conquer our prejudices"? Who is to decide what and where American citizens shall open their mouths to speak, or whether the great national sin of slavery is hereafter to be considered in Congress? Who shall acquire or own territory, or put slavery into or out of it, but the people? How much longer are men, who fancy themselves statesmen and "gentlemen of respectability," but are really the tools and minions of the vilest despotism that ever disgraced the earth, to play over and over the game of "crushing out" our highest and best aspirations? When will "great men," so called, whose minds find no expansion outside and above the arena of Southern law and politics, learn the wholesome lesson, that they cannot trifle with the national heart, around and within which centre principles which cannot the?die? In vain were the sayings and struggles of the founders of this republic, if they must end in such republicanism as we behold to day. American citizens will never accept of such liberty as this. There can be no liberty worthy the name, under any such conditions; and it were well that our politicians should, before it is too late, rise superior to that huckstering policy which has so clearly marked our statesmanship for so many years. It ill-becomes us, at this day, to avert our faces from the one great accuse of all our woes. Let us wisely prepare to look the whole difficulty fully in the face. Let us not "lay the nattering unction to our souls," that the remedy lies in stifling the spirit of freemen, or in turning a deaf ear to the settled determination of a noble and earnest people-The "irrepressible conflict" is already upon us. Shall the evil be dealt with in the spirit of an undying principle, or shall the people be set at nought, and exasperated by short-sighted compromise, which can at best only put off the evil day? Taking counsel of its fears, will the dominant party meanly stoop to trace upon the earth a boundary line between freedom and slavery, and thus trample out its honor and dignity? Dare any party, at this period of the nineteenth century, in the face of the withering condemnation of a Christian civilization, mark out and assign any spot on God's earth as a perpetual home for the oppressor and oppressed? Who is bold enough to take this responsibility? Let the question now be decided on the grounds of eternal right. No more compromises for such a union and peace as this. Let the great Republican party hold fast to the principles which elevated it to power, and which will send it forward to final triumph. A temporizing policy, now or hereafter, as touching the principle of liberty, will scatter it like the leaves of autumn. Let the people, through there accustomed channels, re-affirm, in unbroken cadence, their readiness in all emergencies to live or the by their principles. Let the representatives be encouraged by this voice in the discharge of their trying duties, and all will be well.
There is a concerted and mighty effort making by slave-propagandism, under the specious name of Union, to break down this party. It is gathering up the scattered fragments of a discomfited and corrupt party, that it may reinaugurate the state of things which has so long disgraced the country. With all material or property interests, we cheerfully concede and compromise, and will abide the gains and losses forever; but the liberty which we claim for ourselves, and which is the inalienable right of all in every clime and condition, we are bound to defend at any cost. Millions of acres for freedom not a fool for slavery!
W.

DISSOLUTION OF THE UNION THE DOWNFALL OF SLAVERY.
Translated from the Paris Journal des Debate, by Dr. J. S. Rock, for the Liberator.
"The Northern yoke is broken, we are free." This is the rallying cry of the Carolinians, in their speeches, in their newspapers, and in their manifestoes to Europe, as if not to be assured that they can oppress for ever, is for them an intolerable oppression. But the confusion of liberal opinions in Europe has not yet arrived to that point, that the Carolinians can count upon the weakness of public opinion as being in their favor. They will offer to the world the rare spectacle of an insurrection which will enlist the sympathies of no one, and they will sound the cry of revolt which will not find an echo! We think that she is not so badly treated, for by the general budget we perceive that Congress spends $240,000 per quarter to sustain the South Carolina Post-Office department, and draws only $200,000 as the annual revenue of the State! The North in her patriotism and love of concord has exhausted her patience with the South. At present the North is inactive because Mr. Buchanan is from the bottom of his heart an accomplice in the disunion conspiracy. On this account the North is deprived of the strong arm of the Federal Government. It is certain that he gave orders to the Federal troops, in case they were attacked, to evacuate the forts except one in Charleston. It is now less than two months when Mr. Lincoln will be inaugurated, and if we may judge from the language of his party, the President and Congress will put South Carolina, in a condition to obey, If it comes to civil war, and a part or all of the South rallies to the side of South Carolina, what will then become of the, sad interests of slavery? Have we not a right to suspect such a concourse of circumstances, where even if they can avoid those catastrophes which the imagination refuses to entertain, the fortunes of the slaveholders will be a thousand times more compromised by a rupture with the, North, than if they had remained in the Union?
For Mrs. Chapman's cheering account of the result of the Anti-Slavery Festival, see last page.
<c03>
BOSTON AND MOBS.
There are three memorable days in my Anti-Slavery Calendar. The first was Gen. Taylor's Fast, on the 3d of August, 1849, when the Anti-Slavery gospel, in all its beauty and purity, first fell on my willing ears. The second was when I stood in Boston to witness the rendition of Anthony Burns, and saw that city, so eminently popular for its learning, patriotism and piety, ranged under martial law to surrender an unoffending citizen to the insatiable demands of the South. The last shall I name it? right on the heels of that "glorious" revival which has swept through the length and breadth of the land;-we are reaping its fruits in the re-opening of the hell-fires of the bottomless pit, instead of the salvation of millions of repentant sinners, so confidently heralded by every religious newspaper. What shall we say, then? Was it of heaven or of men? Let the religions conscience of the nation answer. You, the professed teachers of the religion of Jesus Christ, never again point to the principles of Parker, or the pure and peaceful mission of Garrison, whatever may be your differences in theological matters, as the disseminators of infidelity, but rather to the rampant spirit of slavery, which has completely paralyzed whatever of good might have resulted from such a sympathetic demonstration.
On the 25th of January, 1861, I went to Boston again. Nothing more need to be said. Tell it not in Rome, publish it not in Paris! Alas!-that we could conceal from Charleston, South Carolina, that Massachusetts lies prostrate at its bidding! But God reigns! Salvation will come, but not through men's wisdom. 
It is not my purpose here to criticize any man, sect or party, but merely to look at things as they are. Nothing is sufficiently tangible to criticize. All is covert, concealed, save the demonstrations of the mob. The day of compromises is not past; and the confessions of that day in the Legislature, show the utter powerlessness of the State to protect the rights of her citizens,-that is, her loyalty to the South puts it out of her power.
It was currently reported that Gov. Andrew was to protect the Anti-Slavery meeting with a military force, if necessary. He did not come, nobody knew why; but it was suddenly discovered that he had no power, without certain legal procedure. He is an honest man, and would not transcend the measures properly delegated to him. Gov. Washburn did not hesitate to volunteer the State troops, if necessary, to protect the South in her lawless invasion; and so little was said about it that men now forget whether he really did do it or not. All the difference it makes, whether we have honest men or knaves in office, is, that under one the laws will not be invaded even to protect our own rights, and the other will not hesitate to infringe them, whenever the interest of the South demands it. 
Let Massachusetts beware of placing too much confidence in John A. Andrew. Scarcely could an angel from heaven resist all the corrupting influences that will be brought to bear upon him, in his present connection with this Government. Let him not forget that his post is one which, for honor or infamy, will descend to posterity, when that of Abraham Lincoln, if he should ever fill it, will sink below a cipher.
I don't want the protection of his military; I despise it. If rights cannot be defended without its assistance, they cannot be with it, for then we live under a despotism. Loyalty to law exists in the heart of the people, not in the point of the bayonet. But it is rather ludicrous to see a State fitting out a troop of militia to defend the Union, if need be, when the rights of her own citizens are struck down and their lives imperiled in her own metropolis. The fact is, we are not living in a time of law and government, but in a period of anarchy when every man must do what is right in his own eyes.
Events crowd upon each other so thick and fast, that it is impossible for legislation to keep pace with them. By the time the new police bill is passed, another emergency will arise. It was enough to remind one of Nero fiddling when Home was burning, to hear the Legislature discussing our relations to the Union when peaceful citizens, on that very morning, were prohibited from speaking above a whisper, at the risk of property, if not of life. But they did not realize it. They did not foresee that the intimation that the State House might be in danger, if free speech were permitted there, was prophetic of the time when they themselves would share the fate of the Anti-Slavery Society. Then will come the beginning of the end. When the scales fall from the eyes of our legislators, and they become conscious that we are a nation of slaves, the latent genius of our institutions will burst forth in its strength, and they will be driven to the alternative of throwing off the yoke of bondage, or return to the villainage of their Saxon ancestors.' It matters not whether it he Senator Toombs or Mayor Wightman who calls the roll of his slaves beneath the shadow of Bunker Hill.
But Massachusetts will never remain a slave a moment after she finds it out. She is now slumbering in the delusion of a blissful ignorance. She imagines herself a sovereign state, whose cautious policy will have weight in the councils of the Confederacy. It is not the ghost of John Brown, but the spirit that called him into being, which they fear; and that spirit is the life and soul of Massachusetts, however misled it may be by a blind adoration of the Linton. The mob knows no difference between the 3d of December and the 24th of January. 
Some say Mr. Phillips should be more guarded in his speech, and not provoke the angry spirits. He might gild it over with all the sugar-coated pills ever invented by that polished hunker chief, Edward Everett, and they would be no more acceptable than Charles Francis Adams's compromises. (Ah; if he lives, how deeply will he yet regret the evil day that, prompted him to sacrifice the honor of his country, and forget his duty to humanity!) Lincoln is more obnoxious than Garrison, because one represents merely the incarnation of an idea, the other, one of the practical results, however imperfect, of that idea. One is the flaming sword standing at the garden of Eden, whose sacred precincts they never intend to approach near enough to feel his almighty power; the other is the scare-crow, which, if they had the courage to approach, they would find perfectly harmless.
These are auspicious times for the cause of the slave. No longer dependent on the tread-mill labors of the Abolitionists, the mob is echoing his claims with a million voices. For ourselves, we may well tremble. The unutterable wrongs of centuries of oppression are about to fall on us, crushing the innocent as well as the guilty; and who shall avert the catastrophe? "The hour has come, but where is the man; "Alas! echo answers, where'?
Statesmen are confounded, ministers are powerless, wise men have lost then-cunning, fools ape only wrong, and that continually, and treason rules the hour. Even the Quaker Poet, Whittier, eulogizes William H. Seward. 
Let us not despond. It is not in the fire nor the whirlwind, but in the still, small voice, whispering of justice ever triumphant, righteousness yet to come, of faith in the right, and God will give the victory. We hear the blessed assurance that will sustain us through sterner conflicts than these, pointing upward far above the roar of <illegible> passions and the angry clamors of human tongues, where sits the meek-eyed angel of deliverance, in whose hand moves the wand which transmutes every blow struck at freedom, whether by the fanaticism of the South or the servility of the North, into a death-knell for slavery; and we are cheered on through the thickening gloom by the holy consciousness that for every trial and persecution suffered for the slave, nearer and clearer sounds the hour when from cane-brake and cotton-field shall rise the glad anthem., We are free! WE ARE FREE!
Worcester, January 30.
S. E. W.
There has been presented to the Legislature another remonstrance against repealing the Personal Liberty Law, from Solomon Penaton and 267 others, legal voters, and Martha A. Brooks and 591 others, in all, 858 colored citizens of New Bedford.
<c04>
HOW A WOMAN REGARDS IT.
DORCHESTER, Jan. 26, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON-Yesterday, I wished to call at the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Office, in your city, on business, but the police at the street door would not admit. I suppose, however, if they had known my object, they would not hare denied me admittance.
The mobocratic tumult of day before yesterday, and again of yesterday, is truly shameful. Free speech outraged and choked in the day time so unblushingly, is a terrible index of the Slave Power. Why, it seemed to me that the drama of October, 1835, was being acted over again. You will never forget the programme of that occasion, when your editorial sanctum was invaded, the door smashed in, yourself dragged from street to street, thence to the City Hall, and thence carried to Leverett street jail to save your life. To realize a truthful view of that assault, one need to witness it. There I first saw you, while being roughly carried into the City Hall. I was crowded by the press into the building opposite, and there was favored with my first anti-slavery lesson in the speech of the Mayor. I shall never forget it; under the influence of that scene, I was thoroughly converted. At any rate, I am not conscious of ever again desiring to return to the beggarly elements of pro-slavery-ism. In addressing the rabble-I use the term as being more appropriate than the assumed one of gentlemen-the Mayor reiterated over and over, " Gentlemen, retire-gentlemen, be quiet-gentlemen, disperse-gentlemen, go about your business," &.c. How gentle! Well, lam in favor of peace-making. The good Book says, "A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger." Truth, when received into the heart, is sweet and consoling to the spirit; but when rejected and resisted, there is an omnipotent power in it. It is this that makes slavery propagators kick and howl in their chains.
After a lapse of twenty-five years, I meet the foe again, in mobocratic parlance, on Dec. 3d, at Tremont Temple, and again this week, seemingly disposed to act over the old programme.
What are we coining to? It is useless to talk about disunion and secession at the South, while mob law and traitorism triumph at home.
I met on my way from the city, a very intelligent and educated foreign gentleman, who alluded to these topics, and, in seeming anger and disgust, emphatically remarked, "It is ridiculous! ridiculous!-RIDICULOUS!! "Though versed in the language and vocabulary of many nations, he apparently labored for words to express his abhorrence of such public recklessness. I could not help saying that it seemed as though the battle for freedom of speech and the press must be settled here in Boston. We may as well set the fox to guard the geese, as to send such Northerners to defend Southern forts, and to fill offices under the Federal government.
Again, in my reminiscence, the contest in 1839, in the State Legislature, and before a Committee of that body, passed in a thrilling scene before my mind. You remember how a few women of this town were belied and abused, and their character for chastity assailed in open debate before the House, just because a few of us dared to petition for the repeal of all laws making a distinction among the inhabitants of the Commonwealth on account of color. It was impossible to get a fair, honest hearing, and insult was added to injury. It seemed to be the spirit of the majority in the House, and outside, to question the propriety of our course.
What fearful panoramas have the early friends of the freedom of speech and of the press witnessed! I have often thought of your correspondent's lines, which I first saw in the Liberator of 1835:-
"DOWN WITH FREE DISCUSSION!
LYNCH LAW TRIUMPHANT!
SLAVERY FOREVER!
HAIL, COLUMBIA!"
It may not be amiss to repeat them to the present generation, and ask them if they are prepared to adopt them officially.
Please pardon the freedom of my epistle, and believe me as ever, true to the cause of universal righteousness, SARAH BAKER.

MEETING AT WORCESTER.
The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday, Feb. 10th-the President, Josiah Henshaw, occupying the chair.
The morning session was opened with remarks by the President, and the reading a passage of Scripture and prayer by S. May, Jr.
A business committee was chosen, as follows:-S. May, Jr., S. S. Foster, T. W. Higginson, Sallie Holley, A. T. Foss, J. T. Everett, Seth Kogers, and A. P. Brown.
The following persons were chosen a committee to nominate officers, viz.:-Alfred Wyman, J. A. Whipple, Isaac Mason, Sarah E. Wall, E. D. Draper, O. F. Harris, Adams Foster, and Esek Pitts.
Samuel May, Jr., made some interesting remarks upon the present aspect of affairs in the country.
The business committee reported the following resolutions:-
1. Resolved, That the doctrine of the Abolitionists, reiterated by them for many years past, that no real Union can exist, in the nature of things, between Freedom and Slavery,-though long scouted and rejected by the worldly-wise,-is now stamping its truth upon every mind, not closed against the sternest and clearest proof.
2. Resolved, That had the North been true to Liberty and to the Principles of 1776, and, instead of making repeated concessions to Slavery, and manifesting a degrading readiness to sub serve its ends-had it firmly resisted every encroachment and usurpation of Slavery, it would now have stood strong, united and respected, instead of being, as it is, divided, insulted and defied.
3. Resolved, That, having neglected its duty and betrayed its trust in the past, the North will only be adding to its guilt and shame, and to the load of fearful responsibility already resting upon it, if it now consents to new compromises with Slavery,-thereby with coward spirit pushing into the future, and entailing upon our children, the struggle which we ourselves ought to meet.
4. Resolved, That it is not for the true friends of freedom, order and good government, to take any part in patching up, or preserving, a wicked and pro-slavery Union. God's retributive band is against it; let it go to its own place!
5. Resolved, That no Northern State or man baa any right to offer or agree to any compromise whatever with Slavery, the "sum of all villanies," the source of all our national dissensions and troubles; but, on the contrary, it is on duty, as patriots and as men,-a duty never more imperative than now,-to stand for the Right, and for every man's rights; because no bargain with oppression can prosper, and because
"They enslave their children's children, who make compromise with sin."
Some discussion was had upon the resolutions by S. S. Foster, S. May, Jr., J. T. Everett, and others.
The afternoon session was occupied by speeches from A. T. Foss and S. S. Foster.
The following persons were chosen as a Finance Committee:-Sallie Holley, "W. A. Wilson, A. H. Howland, E. F. Rogers, C. F. Putnam, and C. D. Marcy.
At the opening of the evening session, the Nominating Committee reported the following list of officers for the ensuing year, which report was accepted by vole of the Society, and the persons therein named chosen for the respective offices, viz:-
President-Josiah Henshaw, of West Brookfield.
Vice President-Adin Ballon, Milford; Moses Sawin, Southboro'; Adeline H. Howland, Worcester; Clark Aldrich, Upton; Moses Buffum, Oxford; Adams Foster, Holden; James A. Whipple, Worcester.
Treasurer-Sarah E. Wall, Worcester.
Auditor-Alfred Wyman, Worcester,-
Secretary-Joseph A. Howland, Worcester.
Executive Committee-Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah F. Earle, Sarah M. Whipple, Isaac Mason, Worcester; Abijah Allen, Esek Pitts, Millbury; E. D. Draper, Milford; Samuel May, Jr., Leicester; Maria P, Fair-
<c05>
banks, Millville; Nancy B. Hill, Blackstone; Stlvester C. Fay, Southboro; Wilson Doane, Charlton.
The time was farther occupied with speeches by Joseph A. Howland, T. W. Higginson, S. S. Foster, and A. T. Foss, and a brief discussion upon the form of some of the resolutions.
The Forgoing resolutions were adopted.
S. May, Jr., offered the following resolution, which was adopted, viz:-
Resolved, That those persons in Massachusetts, who, under the influence of Southern secession, and in the very face of Southern rebellion and plunder of national property, have petitioned the Legislature to repeal the Personal Liberty Law,-a law designed in no small part for the protection of our own free inhabitants,-have written themselves down very mean vassals of the Slave Power; and we feel ashamed for our Massachusetts' character when we remember that our oldest clergyman of "Worcester gave his name to a petition designed, as we believe, to aid in the overthrow of that law.
A resolution was offered by S. S. Foster, censuring Charles Francis Adams for his servile submission to the Slave Power, in surrendering, at their insolent demand, all that the North, or his own party, have ever claimed in this conflict, and proving false to his own pledges to the people who sent him; but as there was some difference as to the terms of the resolution, and as the hour was too far advanced to draw a resolution properly characteristic and satisfactory to the meeting, the matter was dropped. 
The Finance Committee collected $31.64. 
All the sessions of this meeting were unusually well attended, that in the evening being quite full, and the audiences gave quiet and interested attention to all the exercises of the meeting, in pleasing contrast to the noisy rowdyism and mobocratic violence that have been the experience of so many other places in the past few months. 
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President. 
JOSEPH A. ROWLAND, Secretary.

CONVENTION AT LIVONIA.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
Herewith you will receive the resolutions adopted at our Convention in this town, last Sunday. Mr. Cyrus Fuller was President, and P. A. Jewel, late graduate from Michigan University, was Secretary. We had four sessions, most of them crowded; and the interest was intense, especially during the day on Sunday. Among the speakers were Mrs. Griffins, who is always heard with delight,) Mr. Jewel, and Mr. T. Glazier of Ann Arbor.
The resolutions are sent only as specimens of what we can adopt in large meetings, almost any where in the West. Let the truckling minions of Slavery at Washington, who, with Mr. Seward, are ready to compromise away even the few virtues of the Republican Platform, for the meanest mess of the meanest pottage, take note of them in time! 
Most of our gatherings are orderly as could be desired. An occasional riot, like that at Ann Arbor, and on abortive one last night at Northville, relieve the monotony, clear the atmosphere, and remind us of New York State and Boston. 
Yours, from the din and smoke of the entrenchments, PARKER 
PILLSBURY. Livonia, Michigan, Feb. 5, 1861.
RESOLUTIONS.
Resolved, That only in the most untrammeled freedom of speech and discussion can the liberties of any people be reserved and perpetuated.
Resolved, That the present contest with the Slave Power is not merely for the abolition or non-extension of negro slavery, but for Northern liberty, now in imminent peril through the audacious demands of the South, and the truckling subserviency of many Republican leaders, especially of William H. Seward, the newly nominated Secretary of State.
Resolved, That the alacrity with which a slave girl has just been returned to bondage from Cleveland, with the full and declared approval of Judge Spalding and other leading Republicans, and the assurances given in so many quarters that all our " Personal Liberty Laws” shall be forthwith repealed, are a frightful foreshadowing of what may be dreaded in the incoming administration.
Resolved, That we still have unshaken confidence in the people themselves; that whatever party leaders and demagogues may pledge or promise, slave-hunting shall be held in utter detestation, and its laws trampled in the dust, as an outrageous insult to humanity, and a daring mockery of justice and the Higher Law.
Resolved, That if Southern secessionists are guilty of reason, then are those Democratic journals of the North, tat apologize for them, not less so; and we warn the people to beware of them as more dangerous to the cause of liberty than are the slaveholders themselves; affording, as they do, good ground to suspect that they are already in secret and sworn league to deliver the Government, Benedict Arnold-like, into the hands of those who have conspired its overthrow!

LETTER FROM MRS. J. S. GRIFFTING.
PLYMOUTH, (Michigan,) Feb. 6th, 1861.
TO THE EDITOR: DEAR SIR-The work of the Abolitionists in the West seems now to be fairly inaugurated; and the determination and power, that defended the right of freedom and free labor in the fiercest battles of Kansas, and organized against Missouri slaveholders and the Federal Government an " Abolition Territory," are now the only resource left to the inhabitants of Michigan and the Northwest, by which to protect personal freedom, and freedom of speech, against a lawless, organized pro-slavery mob. 
Within the last two weeks, the spirit of daring violence and assassination has rapidly developed in a westward course; and whether by secret league, the force of ignoble example, or the absolute command of Southern tyrants, who rule them, the mob seem bent upon the entire subjugation of law and order, and strongly indicate their purpose to establish a Slave-holding Despotism, at the hazard of everything sacred in the court of justice and the heart of humanity. 
Hitherto, the North have supposed the only formidable foe to freedom and a free government, was in the South. They now discover a no less bitter and a far baser enemy in their own midst, engendered by their own corrupt and corrupting politics and religion; and as the South are preparing to solve the dangerous problem of a confederacy based upon HUMAN SLAVERY, the North are made to feel that they have a more dreadful conflict to sustain, in defence of the right to establish a government based upon HUMAN FREEDOM. 
We are now in the region of Detroit, where, from our first meeting, at Ann Arbor, Jan. 29-30, till our last, of last evening, including several important gatherings, we have seen the fixed determination of a pro-slavery mob to prevent the agitation against slavery in the South, and its consequent " malign influence on the slaves "; and, according to President Buchanan, " to settle the slavery question forever, and to restore peace and harmony to this distracted country." But in case have they yet succeeded in circumventing our purpose to maintain the right to freedom of speech, as well as the right of the slave to emancipation.
At Ann Arbor, where we were literally crowded out of the window, we held our final session, and passed resolutions, expressive of our faith in the immediate abolition of slavery, and the formation of a Northern Confederacy, without any formidable opposition.
But as Mr. Pillsbury, from a severe hoarseness, together with the frequent' interruptions of the mob, could not sufficiently detail his plans before the Convention, the leading citizens and members of the University desired a private session, to discuss the practicability and the advantage of both these objects. 
I was not present at this but session, hot from reliable authority learn that Mr. Pillsbury's proposition, to declare slavery abolished, so far as the consent of the North was concerned, and his Ms draft for a Free Northern Republic, embracing the whole North, from Mason and Dixon's line, the East and the Northwest, together with the capital at Washington, found serious consideration, and hearty approval of a majority of
<c06>
those present; so that the work of the Convention was fully accomplished. 
Last evening, our meeting at Farmington Village was almost instantly broken up, in the middle of the session, by the burning of a match, wrapped in a cartridge of cayenne, and some other nauseous ingredient. When the church was sufficiently renovated by the cold air from without, and the people had recovered from strangulation and coughing, and actual fainting of one, at least, the house was again called to order, and Mr. Pillsbury closed his thrilling remarks by assuring the people that the plot for the assassination of General Scott, and the assassination of the Anti-Slavery meeting, were but parts of the same broad, traitorous design to seize upon or overthrow the capital, to murder Mr. Lincoln, and, finally, to subjugate by the sword, if necessary, all parties, and every name and thing, to the rule of despotism. 
His stinging rebuke of the mob, and the sting of the burning cartridge, upon that crowded audience, will, without doubt, result in a timely preparation for more desperate and bloody conflicts in the overthrow of slavery in thia this country.
The people greatly regret the necessity of Mr. Pillsbury's return to the East. No man East or West better understands the movements of the present revolution; and no man is more sure of the unbounded confidence and support of all true men and Republicans, who will at last find his die only feasible or possible ground upon which they can plant themselves, or establish a just and permanent government. But a previous engagement, made in the autumn, secures him, through the months of March and April, to the State of New York, when I hope the West may again be favored with his inestimable service.
Northern Indiana has, within the last few days, sent up to Congress remonstrance's, signed by hundreds of names, against any amendments of the Constitution recognizing or protecting slavery in the Territories or States of this Union, and protesting against all compromises with the South upon any other ground than the abolition of slavery.
Faithfully, yours, 
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFTING.
P. S. In my last letter to the Liberator, your type makes me say coercion, instead of secession, which throws some confusion upon my meaning. 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVBRY SOCIETY. 
DONATION.
Martha Smith, Plainfield, Conn., $25 00 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
ANDREW T. FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts 
A. S. Society, will speak at 
Milford, N. H., Sunday, Feb. 21. 
Lowell, Sunday, March 3. 
HAVERHILL-HENRY C. WRIGHT and ANDREW T. Foss will speak at Haverhill, Sunday, Feb. 17, day and evening. 
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture at 
Uxbridge, Friday, Feb. 15. 
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
Reference. David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston street.s. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov. 23 3m.
MARRIED-In this city, Feb. G, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, CHARLES H. MAHONEY, to SARAH ANN BOHEA, both of Boston. 
At Weymouth Landing, in the Universalist Church, on the evening of the 6th inst., A. W. CLAPP, (of the firm of A. W. Clapp & Co., of this city,) to ELEANOR F., daughter of Elias Richards, Esq.
Also, at same time and place, S. W. PRATT, to MARIA L., daughter of Adoram Clapp, Esq.
DIED-At Ghent, N. Y., on Wednesday, January 23, CHARLES S., oldest son of GEORGE G. and DEBORRAN MACY, aged 21 years and 10 months. 
The death of this son, brother, friend, leaves a vacancy in the home-circle, and in society, which the departure of one less faithful and earnest could not cause. He was a young man possessed of unconquerable perseverance and energy, of high aims, of a frank and affectionate nature, and of a deep regard for humanity. Life was revealed to him as a field of active work for the growth of the soul. After two years of severe labor as a teacher, he chose for his profession the practice of medicine, and was just entering upon his career of study, when his strength failed, and the over-tasked body could no longer sustain the untiring spirit. During the three weeks of his illness, he cheerfully resigned his hopes for this life, and calmly met the change. He felt that it would matter little, whether he went hence now, or in forty years. Just before the spirit departed, he exclaimed, "The glories of the future life are opening before me "; then serenely passed on to the realization of the " glories" that await the faithful.
We bless his memory, because he lived so truly as to be the guide, onward and upward, of those who knew him, and because he robbed death of every mystery and shadow. He has not lived in vain whoso death is a revelation of immortal life May the bereaved hearts feel that he is not far from them, but that he is in their very midst, sustaining them, and ministering peace to their spirits!! E. M. P.

$40 PARKER $40 
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS. 
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler &
Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now is the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. K. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. 
Boston., Jan. 18, 1861. 3m. 

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE,
Fourth Edition. 
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each, proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
05 6m 274 Canal street, New York. 

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by Any Post. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendstory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents is postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street. 

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location in a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Jan. 11 S. NEWELL.

THE BOSTON MOB,
WHAT WE HEARD IN A DREAM. 
BY FRANKLIN.
HIS is Satanic Majesty abdicates his throne, and appoints his successor. Price. 2 cents single, $1 per 100. Address “Franklin,” Liberator office, 221 Washington street, Boston.
P. S A sample forwarded to any address, post-paid, for one 3et, stamp enclosed.
Feb. 15
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator
"THE RAVEN."
With a heavy sorrow at my heart, I closed my chamber door,
And the mocking raven over it was crying, "Nevermore!"
I did not see the moonlight that was streaming in my room,
For every where around me was the shadow of my gloom;
And the fragrant breath of blossoms, that the soft breeze wafted in,
Told only to my aching heart what happiness had been.
A wail came on the wind-I thought, was it some lone night bird?
I bent my ear-the distant sound was a whippoorwill I heard:-
Bird of the summer night, I said, how sweet thy song before!
Oh, heavy fell upon my heart that hopeless "Nevermore!"
Up by the calm moon shining clear, a bright cloud caught my sight,
So rich and grand it floated there, like spirit seeking light;
How longingly I watched that cloud, and through that lone, long night
I struggled with my dark despair-I too would seek the light!
And nearer, nearer, unto God a brilliant morning broke:-
I saw how grand it was to live-a fresh new life awoke;
Then by the golden sunlight, that was streaming in my room,
I knew that mocking raven was the shadow of my gloom.
KATE.

For the Liberator.
BE TRUE.
The conflict rages-let us stand
Firmly for the true and right;
Heart to heart, and hand to hand,
Dare defy Oppression's might.
See your suffering brothers, see,
Bleeding in the tyrant's chain!
He pleads his cause with you and me-
Must he, shall he, plead in vain?
Hear him! let the fount of love
Gush toward your brother man;
Hear him, by that God above!
Hear, and help him all you can!
Are you truthful? are you men?
Have you pity in your breast?
Are you fathers, brothers? then
Go and succor the oppressed!
Barter not the true and good
For gold-accursed Mammon's dole!
Deal not in man's flesh and blood;
Barter not the human soul!
God is with us!-dare advance!-
Meet Oppression's crime-cursed powers!
Right our shield, and Truth our lance,
Press on! the triumph shall be ours!
Andover, Mass. RICHARD HINCHCLIFFE.

For the Liberator.
OUR NATIONAL FLAG.
How I would love that streaming flag,
If it were not a trap, a drag,
Of which the worst of tyrants brag!
They say it shelters in its folds
The men who live on murdered souls,
And vote for freedom at the polls.
So says the judge, in wisdom gray;
So say the ministers who pray;
I don't believe a word they say.
But if the people love it so,
I have no power to answer no,
Except the little vote I throw.
And though my votes but little tell,
That little serves my conscience well, 
Till Heaven the endless anthem swell.
Chicago. MOUNTAIN BOY.
From the Chicago Tribune.
SOUTH CAROLINA.
BY J. W. TEMPLE.
There's a mighty new-born nation,
Sprung to life and power and station,
Just by seizing the occasion
Of a triumph in the North:
And they've cut, in indignation,
From our poor Confederation,
With our "black amalgamation,"
Abolition, and so forth.
And they've snubbed their Uncle Sam, sir,
Called that potentate a sham, sir,-
Swore they did n't care a d-n, sir,
For his little puny arm,-
They could whip him even-handed,
But if succor they demanded,
Foreign troops would soon be landed,
Lest their Cotton come to harm.
That Great Britain, France and Russia,
Holland, Germany and Prussia,
With sloop, man-of-war and cruiser,
To King Cotton's aid would sail,-
That our ports they would blockade, sir,
And our hated land invade, sir,
In a second grand crusade, sir,
To set free the Cotton-Bale!
And they're mighty, too, in figures,
Boast four hundred thousand "niggers,"
And they talk of pulling triggers,
Storming forts, and marching North,-
And if Lincoln, whom they hated,
Comes to be inaugurated,
That his doom is sealed and dated
From the coming March the fourth.
So we warn each Northern coward,
You are soon to be devoured
By these ogres from the Sou'ward,
Led by Keitt, and Rhett, and Wise;
So you'd best go in for "fusion,"
And amend the Constitution,
Bow before the Revolution,
And seek favor in their eyes.
You must let them have their will, sir,
Whip their slaves at Bunker Hill, sir,
Carry slavery where they will, sir,-
Swear that slavery is right;
You must change public opinion,
And throughout our whole dominion
You must hoot and gag and pinion.
All who speak in its despite.
You must take off the embargo-
Bring in niggers by the cargo,
(Just as far as we will dare go,
Lest the British Lion roar)-
Cuba you must buy, or take her,
Coax old Spain to sell, or make her-
And for Mexico, we'll rake her,
Gaining slave States three or four.
If you'll do all this, "poor devil,"*
And be humble, meek and civil,
Though the Union is an evil,
They'll stay in it for a spell;
Only, they must have the plunder,-
Otherwise, I shouldn't wonder,
Every four years you'll hear thunder,
And "the Union sent to h-!"!
"Keitt's name for every Northern Republican.
From a secession speech at Norfolk, Va.
VICTORIA, (ILL.) Jan., 1861.
HOPE ON.
Hope on, oh, weary and desponding mortals!
I tell you that the world is not all gloom-
That there is sunshine for each day that riseth
Upon our lives, from birth-morn to the tomb.
If you have burdens, bear them, oh! I pray you,
And with them to the earth be never bowed;
Remember ever there's a silver lining
And golden fringes to each gloomy cloud.
If't were not for the night, no stars we'd see,
So upward look toward heaven hopefully.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY.SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSAY.
ANNIVERSARY.THE TWENTY-SEVENTH.
The families who entertained in Boston the friends of the great national and universal Cause of Freedom, on the evening of the 23d of January, cordially thank; those honored and beloved guests; not only those then present, but no less warmly and gratefully such as greeted them by letter and subscription from other States and lands.
These are they to whose cooperation it is owing that Boston has, throughout the world, the reputation and the moral power of an anti-slavery city.
With an ill-organized police and an incompetent city magistracy,-the result of previous slaveholding manipulation;- having among her hundred and seventy thousand inhabitants, a thousand or two of ill-bred and ignorant traders and manufacturers of slave products, who are rich enough to hire about an equal number of day-laborers no less ignorant and selfish,-Boston has been temporarily disgraced by their riotous breach of all and law and order. This is but the customary spasmodic action of slaveholders upon their Northern servants, whenever they can take advantage of the rage of pecuniary loss and the mortification of political defeat, to instigate outrages against the peace and rights of the free people of the North.
All these disgraceful nuisances will come to an end with the present revolutionary period, when the slaveholding States shall have withdrawn their disturbing element. The cause of riot, violence and impoverishment will then be as clearly seen by all the rest of the world as by South Carolina. From the earliest anti-slavery days, it has been the habit of slaveholding merchants and politicians to send circulars to their selfish and ignorant correspondents at the North, earnestly enjoining on them to take this sort of action; and the account in the Charleston Mercury, of the way in which the 29th annual meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY was assailed by a mob under the control of a Mayor, was headed, "SLAVERY IN BOSTON."
The Anti-Slavery Assembly, on the 23d of January, were inspired with the glad consciousness that their lives had absolved them from any taint of moral complicity in the impending disgrace of the city of Boston. They had constantly exposed the schemes of the Southern tyranny to enslave the free States, and subdue them to the same terror that reigns in slave-land; and they have received an ample recompense in that renovation of the public mind, so clearly discerned by the Southern leaders of secession. They have never ceased to point out in the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution, the
-"insane root
That takes the reason prisoner."
They have constantly claimed of their fellow-countrymen that no such agreement with wrong should be perpetrated. Clearer of vision than their deceived forefathers, they early resolved for themselves that they, at least, would let a bad example die.
This satisfaction in their well-spent past brought the friends of freedom together, agreeably to long previous invitation, in unexampled numbers and spirits. It was estimated that upwards of three thousand guests called during the day and evening, to pay their respects and their subscriptions to the cause, to interchange congratulations, to devise plans for more efficient co-operation, and to enjoy the festive hospitalities of the Anniversary.
The threat of riot, with the danger to life and property from municipal corruption and State supineness, though it awakened indignant pity for the poor creatures of slavery about to engage in it, did not in the least check the gaiety or the liberality of the occasion. Perhaps it stimulated both, to think of this new sort of political demonstration of loyalty to the Slave Power, executed by the small defeated party of Bell and Everett, as a last despairing effort. The Slave Power thinks of it with contempt and derision, and thanks no one for breaking owners by obeying orders.
The amount received on this occasion was about
$5,500:
a sum entirely unexpected,-since every pecuniary pressure which slavery brings upon the country is felt by the friends of the cause, as well as by its enemies. The difference between the two classes is this:-the former have, through life, rejoiced to make their own petty interests the stepping-stones to public good.
The time of that great deliverance for which we have wrought so long, appears to be at hand. If it be not so, it is merely because more work yet remains to be done to inform and strengthen the awakened public heart against slavery; and since fresh hosts are now claiming the privilege that it has heretofore been ours to exercise alone, the final extinction of slavery on this continent is sure. Not only are the Northern millions to be free from their guilty complicity with slavery, but State after State of the Southern Confederacy will learn from events what counsel and warning have been spent in vain to teach, that the four millions of slaves are men and brothers, and can no longer be overlooked in the settlement of public affairs. Events are every where teaching the people how deadly is that curse of curses-slavery; how fatal to the existence of nations, and to the welfare of men. Free Americans are learning what their senseless political cry of "Compromise" signifies to their debased tyrants and to the world. It means, not what they have blindly imagined, wealth, and strength, and length of days for themselves, and for their children yet more abundantly, but the free States for the slaveholder's hunting-ground; freemen to couple up with his bloodhounds; violence in every city; spies of the government Slave Power in every rural neighborhood; insult and danger to every domestic hearth; blood on every threshold; cowed Legislatures; corrupted Judiciaries; the Church a profanation; the State a slave-catching despotism, deprived of the cohesion of human feeling and human intellect, crumbling into mean barbaric dust, upon the heads of them that cried "Compromise," when they should have cried, "Freedom!"
"What constitutes a State?" More than any thing else, the self-consciousness and self-possession implied in the refusal to violate the laws of hospitality and the dictates of humanity. To refuse to be ridden over rough-shod by the hunters for slaves and refugees, is the statesman's way of meeting invasion; and thus do all high-minded men
-"defeat the long aimed blow,
And smite the tyrant while they rend the chain."
What makes the Swiss a people?-and England a nation?-and Christendom the synonym of civilization? The shelter they give to the political fugitive, and their law which only the Americans have infringed,-"Thou shall not deliver unto his master the slave that has escaped from his master unto thee!" And that infringement has made of these conflicting States a hissing and a by-word, as it dashes them in pieces like a potter's vessel. 
Not only this sacred right of asylum at the North, but the homes of unborn generations in yet unpeopled lands have been demanded of the North for the perpetuation of slavery. And yet it is an established fact of statesmanship, that any government which, by its own free will, were to make such a surrender, would be deservedly and universally stigmatized as degraded and dishonored. Woe, then, to the statesman whom the people are obliged to displace, when be gives them up to degradation, at the demand of a bloody and unscrupulous tyranny! His best hope in such a case must be to sink into a forgotten grave,- for his name shall be remembered only with shame and everlasting contempt.
All that is now needed is energy to cast out slavery by the refusal to compromise. Then are the free States saved,-ultimately to become the means of saving the slave States too. Whatever border State (and they will all become border States in turu) shall desire to abolish its slavery, can, after having done
<c03>
it, join the free States;-with whatever help of loans and advances the transition may require from Northern freemen. No compensation-no indemnity; nothing that can be cited as an acknowledgment of property in man. But aid, help, succor, the North is bound, by past complicity, to give, were the result to be a loss, instead of incalculable gain and prosperity.
However all these things may work themselves clear, as with or without assistance of politicians, they are sure at length to do by mere moral preponderance, the generous and the just-the members and friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society-have only to go on claiming the abolition of slavery, as they have begun. The new shapes the States may take are of no consequence to us. We deal with nature; and not with lines and boundaries; we deal with the human head and heart, and not with its Church or State contrivances.
"A breath unmakes them, as a breath has made; and we immeasurably prefer the present anxious and inquiring state of the American mind, to the selfish apathy and vain-glory in laying up money, that have hitherto absorbed every sentiment that honors human nature and secures human welfare. More grateful are we now than for all the past unexampled wealth and prosperity, to see our country face to face with the lesson so precious to posterity, that nothing but freedom, rectitude and equal justice can bind men together in civilized and progressive communities.
Slavery is of the dark ages: honor and hope and cheer to every man engaged in beating it down, in, whatever shape or under whatever name!
No matter what his partisan war-cry, no matter what his theological creed, no matter of what race or clime, no matter what the date of his awakening,- him we hail as a brother. He refuses to sacrifice the rights of the eternal future by compromise with slavery. He scorns to submit to the shameful destiny prepared for him by the Slave Power, and he finds himself assailed by the brutal selfishness that slavery would make permanent in the American heart. Him, and all such true patriots and statesmen, we meet with confidence and joy, asking and receiving all the help in our common cause that each can consistently afford. Invaluable, indispensable to the true statesman is cooperation like that of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, unmingled with wrath, or doubt, or fear.
With solemn thoughts like these, our festival began. It would be profitable, if time and space permitted, to note down the conversation that followed. 
"What necessity for these meetings?" said a novice to one of the old guard. "They only give this thousand or two of a defeated party, which appears one day as a Washington Union Committee, and the next as a Union meeting in Faneuil Hail, the chance to appear once more in the streets as a mob, under the delusion that change of form will disguise their insignificance to the ready-to-halts, the feeble-minds, and the much-afraids, that infest public life in seats of government. You cannot, excepting the one or two of you whom they threaten with assassination, even claim the credit of courage in what you do, under the forcible-feebleness of a city government that insults the slaveholder by public acknowledgment of your legal rights; the very rights it is engaged in violating."
"All this has much show of reason, but does not apply to the case in hand; for none of these meetings were special, but all of long previous appointment. The attempt to hinder them is an argument for their necessity For a life-time, the abolitionists have been heard, and arc busier now in watching what comes of it, than in going out of their way to say more.
But this meeting was appointed twenty-nine years ago, before you, kind youth, were born; and so great an accumulation of interest and effort does not admit of postponement. It is not like a mushroom meeting of yesterday's contrivance. Even if it were, it must be; heard for its cause. Do you remember the highborn fowl-the duck who was a duchess, in Hans Christian Andersen's Story, who advised the killing of the little ugly duck,-the future swan? To which the parent that had fostered it succinctly replied, That can't be done, your grace.’”
From this unchecked interchange of thoughts and plans called free speech, comes the only possibility of sufficient approximation among men to the law of life-the truth-to enable them to live in society together. Stop it, and society-social, civil and religious alike-is extinct: everything begins to crumble. Out of it grows the only hope of ultimate union."
"We have never yet been the United States," adds another friend, reading a letter from the South "There are the benighted States,-the more northerly slave States; there are the unknighted States, where the slave-lynch-code has displaced chivalry; but free States only can ever be united."
But we must pause: of the free speech of a Soiree there would be no end.
The pleasure of opening our anniversary letters was this year of the truest and deepest kind. How much sympathy they expressed! How much cooperation they promised! What encouragement they afforded! Though not written for publication, we venture in some instances to subjoin them, that others may be sharers of the benefit. 
This anniversary, so many times made holy to our hearts by death, has just received a fresh consecration. Our beloved friends, SUSAN COPLEY CABOT and ABBY FRANCIS, are no more. They have followed the long-remembered dead of former years, the impress of whose characters is so strong on the lives of us who yet remain,- ANN GREENE CHAPMAN, SARAH CHAPMAN, MARY YOUNG, CATHERINE SARGENT, MARIA LOWELL, ELIZA LEE FOLLEN.
These all have lived and died in the service of Freedom, and their example is raising up hundreds to fill their places in the good old cause, so indispensably dear to all generations.
"Let us die the death of the Righteous!"
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
LETTERS.
TO MRS. CHILD.
MONTREAL, Jan, 23, 1861.
My DEAR MADAM:
I must beg you to forgive the liberty I am taking in thus addressing you. But having no correspondent in Boston, nor any with whom I seemed so well acquainted as yourself, although the acquaintance has been without the happiness of ever seeing you, and is formed only from my perusal of a portion of your productions, which I have read with pleasure and advantage, and for which I feel sincerely grateful, I thought I could not do better than by sending my letter direct to you, whose name I see announced in the list of those who receive subscriptions for the Anti-Slavery Society. As a native of one of the Southern States, and also a descendant of that of Massachusetts, I feel an affectionate interest in the fate of the Northern and Southern portions of that great confederation, which lately constituted the United States of America; although, for more than seventy years, I have ceased to reside therein.
I beg you will have the goodness to add to the funds of the Anti-Slavery Society the amount of the enclosed draft, drawn by the Bank of Montreal on the Merchants' Bank of Boston, for Fifty Dollars, which I have endorsed in your favor, and send as my contribution to the Society's funds.
"When I conversed with ex-governors of the Southern States, nearly fifty years ago, they expressed great regret at the existence of slavery among them, and earnest hopes and expectations that the day of emancipation would arrive. The change which has taken place is truly lamentable. Perpetuation of slavery is now designed! " The sum of all villanies" is to be enthroned! Attempts at assassination, nearly successful, have been made by slaveholders, even within the Halls of Congress! Do they wish to bring upon themselves the abhorrence of the whole civilized world, as the enemies of the human race? They will find that abhorrence too strong to be overcome. But we must reserve our pity for those friends of justice who dwell in the slave States, and whose safety requires them to be silent.
I remain, with the sincerest respect and best wishes,
Your obedient servant,
SAMUEL GALE.
Mrs. L. MARIA CHILD.

LETTER FROM THADDEUS HYATT, ESQ.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) Jan. 23,1861.
MRS. MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN:
MY DEAR MADAM-Please accept my thanks for your kind invitation to the gathering of 23d. It seemed, last week, as though I should have the pleasure of being present, as I was then in Boston. But here I am-tomorrow in New York-and the next day on my way to Kansas! Such is my fleeting life.
<c04>
Accept the enclosed trifle in behalf of the cause we all have so near our hearts. I need not say that, under ordinary circumstances, it would be larger; but, at present, my poor Kansas claims about all I have of purse, strength, energy, life!
But the morn is breaking! Thank God! Let the darkness thicken; there burns and smiles a son behind the cloud! The day-imperial we have waited for so long is just at hand. Farewell!
Ever yours, sincerely,
THADDEUS HYATT.
LETTER FROM NATHAN WINSLOW, ESQ.
PORTLAND, (Me.) Jan. 21, 1861.
MARIA W. CHAPMAN AND ASSOCIATES:
DEAR SISTERS-Your note of invitation to the Subscription Anniversary was duly received. I feel highly honored by the invitation; and it would give me much pleasure to attend, but the delicate health of my dear wife, will not admit of our leaving home at this inclement season.
There is just now much alarm exhibited throughout the country on account of secession; but I consider it the happiest occurrence for the past fifty years. We have only to wait, and see the providence of God in the movement.
 Fraternally and respectfully, yours,
NATHAN WINSLOW.

LETTER FROM MRS. STEBBINS.
ANN ARBOR, (Mich.) Jan. 21, 1861.
DEAR MRS. GARRISON:
Your "Festival" day I always remember; and if it were in my power to aid you in proportion to my interest and remembrance, it would be gratifying indeed. I do not feel as do some others, that it is necessary to confine our efforts entirely to our own neighborhoods and State. If Massachusetts is industrious, vigilant and active, in her Anti-Slavery labors; if she sends her missionaries into the broad field for the benefit of the whole country; if New York does her Anti-Slavery work, and Pennsylvania likewise; let us give aid and sympathy to each,-we shall lose nothing by interchange, either morally or pecuniarily.
With love to you and yours, and prayers for the success of the righteous side, I am, with respect and affection, 
CATHARINE A. F. STEBBINS.

LETTER FROM BENJAMIN CHASE.
AUBURN, (N.H.) Jan. 20, 1861.
MRS. MARIA W. CHAPMAN:
MADAM-Enclosed find my subscription to the Anniversary. I greatly regret my inability to participate in the festivities of the evening.
The Abolitionists have now been at work for an entire generation; and although their labors have not yet been crowned with success, yet the cause seems to be approaching a crisis. If the North has not virtue enough to secede, it is well that the slaveholders are so far infatuated as to break up this "covenant with death."
I wish to give you, personally, and the ladies associated with you, a word of cheer and sympathy in your long and arduous labors for the slave.
Yours, for eternal right,
BENJAMIN CHASE.

LETTER TO MRS. CHAPMAN.
NEW BEDFORD, Jan. 23, 1861.
DEAR MADAM:
I have been hoping to be present at the Subscription Festival this evening, as also at some of the sessions of the Annual Meeting; but home engagements prevent, and I must content myself with sending my small subscription.
Never, in my opinion, was radical Anti-Slavery more needed than now, at this crisis in our national affairs, in order to guide the public conscience, clear and firm, through
the public confusion. Though some good anti-slavery work may now be done elsewhere, and by other means, yet I regard it as the peculiar mission of the old Anti-Slavery organization to make and keep, in this nation, an Anti-Slavery heart;-a mission now, of all times, demanded. And to help this work forward, I enclose my subscription of Ten Dollars.
I am, yours with great respect,
W. J. POTTER.
Mrs. MARIA W. CHAPMAN, Boston.

LETTER FROM HON. EDWARD HARRIS.
WOONSOCKET, (R. I.) Jan. 23, 1861.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN AND OTHER LADIES, at the 27th National Anti-Slavery Gathering in Boston, to be held this evening:
LADIES-You are engaged in what I sincerely believe is a righteous cause,- the liberation of the bondmen. Just what our Saviour came to do. The progress of His principles has been slow, as may seem to us poor, short-sighted beings; but I believe they must triumph in the end.
I perceive our friend Phillips is bound to keep far ahead of public sentiment, as all reformers do.
I enclose my check to your order for Ten Dollars, and bid you God speed. Should have been happy to meet you this evening, but cannot. Hope you will be protected against wicked men.
I remain your friend,
EDWARD HARRIS

SUBSCRIPTION LIST
OF THE TWENTY-SEVENTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARY.
Mrs. Chapman, $200.00
Mrs. May, 20.00
Mrs. Child, 5.00
Mrs. Garrison, 5.00
Miss H. Sargent, 20.00
Miss A. Warren Weston, 25.00
Miss M. G. Chapman, 50.00
Mrs. Loring, 25.00
Miss King, 3.00
Mrs. James M. Robbins, 25.00
Miss Susan C. Cabot, 25.00
Mrs. Atkinson, 10.00
Mrs. Eddy, 15.00
Mrs. Ann T. G. Phillips, 100.00
Mrs. Von Arnim, 10.00
Mrs. Samuel May, 5.00
Mrs. Theodore Parker, 25.00
Mrs. Anna Shaw Greene, 200.00
Mrs. Stearns, 20.00
Mrs. Robert E. Apthorp, 10.00
Miss S. Southwick, 2.50
Mrs. Stowe, 50.00
Misses A. and M Jay, Bedford, N. Y., 20.00
Mrs. Arnold, New Bedford, Mass., 50.00
Samuel Gale, Esq., Montreal, 50.00
Miss Helen Frances Garrison, 1.00
Francis J. Garrison, 1.00
George T. Garrison, 5.00
Elisha Clapp, Gill, 5.00
Mrs. Clarissa Olds, 2.00
Nathaniel Barney, Nantucket, 20.00
Mrs. Mann, N. Y., 5.00
Hon. David Joy and Mrs. Joy, 25.00
Andrew Robeson, Esq., New Bedford 50.00
Mrs. L. Walker, Leominster 10.00
Wm. Neely, N. Y., 1.00
Oliver Johnson, N. Y., 5.00
J. N. Brown, 1.00
Miss Lucy Osgood, Medford, 10.00
David Lee Child, 5.00
Mrs. R. C. Waterston, 5.00
Mr. Nye, Weymouth, 3.00
Mary L. Richmond, 1.00
Sarah J. Nowell, 5.00
Charles Follen, 150.00
By Miss Tufts, (contributions,) 7.00
Miss Nowell, 3.00
Anna Logan, 0.75
Miss S. B. Logan, 0.50
B. F. Hutchinson, Milford, N. H., 2.00
Miss E. M. Lawton, 0.50
Wm. H. Logan, 1.00
E. B. Mundrucu, 1.00
Mrs. Isabella Snowden Holmes, 1.00
Misses Bradford, 10.00
William Bassett, Lynn, 5.00
Misses Ireson, Lynn, 8.00
J. S. Nowell, 3.00
H. E. Whitney, 3.00
Mrs. Caroline Putnam, 5.00
W. W. Dutcher, Hopcdale, 25.00
Mrs. M. A. Dutcher, " 25.00	
"A friend," 0.50
Mr. and Mrs. McLauthlin, 2.00
J. T. Hilton, 1.00
Miss Susan Dunbar, 1.00
J. A. Nowell, 3.00
Mrs. and Miss Hunt, 5.00
Mrs. Judith Hathaway, Duxbury, 1.00
Mrs. J. W. Smith, East Boston, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. I. Bowditch, 50.00
C. C. McLauthlin, Watertown, 5.00
Miss M. E. Allen, 3.00
W. B. Brown, 0.50
Mrs. Earle, 0.30
Mrs. N. S. Dunham, 1.00
H. C. Wright, 1.00
Mrs. John Thompson, 1.00
Miss Frances M. Remick, 1.00
Mr. Luther Melendy, N. H., 2.50
Mrs. Martha and Miss Lockey, 1.50
John L. Whiting, 3.00
Mrs. Whiting, 0.50
Maria A. Sawin, 1.00
"A friend," 1.00
J. A. Clifton, Boston, 2.00
Sarah L. Smith, Salem, 3.00
Hannah Castell, 10.00
Joseph Cotton, 10.00
The Misses Andrews, by C. K. W., 7.00
Charles Hodges, 5.00
E. H. Heywood, 3.00
Mr. Hazeltine, Neponset, 1.00
Mrs. Ralph Waldo Emerson, 5.00
Miss Elizabeth Jackson, 1.00
Rev. Robert Waterston,5.00
Friends in Leominster, by Mrs. Drake, 4.80
Mrs. Jacobs, 2.00
Miss Jacobs, 1.00
William C. Coffin, New Bedford, 10.00
Sarah B. Coffin, 5.00
<c05>
N. F. Perkins, Boston, 1.00
Isaac Osgood, Charlestown, 4.00
I C. Ray, New Bedford, 1.00
Miss Wilson, Boston, 19.00
George M. Rogers, Boston, 5.00.
Alexander Foster, Boston, 10.00
Mrs. Alex r Foster, " 10.00
Mrs. Kilburn, 10.00 
Anna C. Nowell, 3.00
Mrs. James Freeman Clarke, 10.00
Charles N. Estabrook, Boston, 1.00
S Urbino, 3.00

Ira Gray, 2.00
George W. Stacy, 2.00
Miss J. A. Newell, 0.50
Miss L. H. Chase, 25.00
A. HaskeH, 1.00
Dr. Henry I. Bowditch, 20.00
Miss Sarah Clarke, 2.00
H. Jas. Prentiss, 5.00
R. T. G., 1.00
R. W. Henshaw, 5.00
Frank Dwight, 2.50
John Winslow, Lynn, 3.00
Ira Kelren, 0.50
W. L. G. Wright, 0.25
Charles Taylor, 0.25
John Henry Handluft, 0.25
"A young friend," 0.25
John M. Forbes, Esq., Milton, 50.00
Mrs. Cunningham, 5.00
Mrs. Ives, Salem, 2.00
Prof. A. D. White, Ann Arbor, 1.00
C. A. F. Stebbins, "1.000 
S. Hall, Jr., 5.00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 10.00
"A young friend," by C. K. Whipple, 0.35
Mr. and Mrs. E. Dresser, 2.00
B. R. Downes, Bradford, 1.00
Amos Pannenter, Newport, 10.00
 Edward Harris, Woonsocket, 10.00
Benjamin Chase, Auburn, N. H., 1.00
Rev. Wm. J. Potter, New Bedford, 10.00
Miss E. Cushing, Hingham, 7.00
Miss Robie, 20.00
"A friend," by Mrs. Robbins , 10.00
Miss Mary Shannon, W. Newton, by W. L. Garrison, 2.00
Miss C. Putnam, 15.00
Miss Mary Pay son, Peterboro', N. H., 5.00
Philip Scarborough, Brooklyn, Ct., 2.67
Perrin Scarborough, Brooklyn, Ct., 2.33
Miss Littlehale, 5.00
Various "friends," 16.00
Mrs. Hinckley, 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Thompson, 2.00
Matthew Smith, 1,00
J. N. Marshall, 3.00
S. Dyer, 1.00
Josiah Hayward, 2.00
Josiah Hayward, Jr., 2.00
R. G. S., 1.00
W. P. Atkinson, Esq., 10.00
G. P. Bradford, Esq., 2.00
S. Newell, 3.00
F. Burnham, 1.00
A. and S. J. Bicknell, 3.00
Hon. James Murray Robbins, 25.00
Miss Catherine Robbins, 2.00
Edward L. Pierce, Esq., 2.00
W. L. Foster, Esq., 10.00
F. Cunningham, Esq., 7.00
Mrs. N. B. Rogers, 1.00
James Savage, Jr., Esq., 5.00
Edmund Lincoln, Esq., 3.00
Miss Shaw, 1.00
Francis Jackson, 50.00
Mr. and Mrs. Southwick, 7.50
Mrs. W. S. Brown, 3.00
Geo. W. Stevens, 5.00
Mary B. Meriam, 5.00
Mrs. Dr. Thayer, 5.00
"L. B. Meriam, 10.00
Edwin Thompson, 0.25
Wm. Bourne Spooner, 1.00
J. N. Clark, 0.75
James Jackson, 2.00
Jesse Russell, 2.00
Sarah James, 1.00
Mr. Hale, 0.75
A stranger, 1.00
G. A. Sawyer, 1.00
C. W. S., 0.50
John J. Jones, 10.00
John C. Marsden, Lawrence, Mass., 0.50
Mrs. Abby P. Forbush, Westminster, do. 5.00
Hon. John G. Palfrey, Cambridge, do. 5.00
Rev. Samuel J. May, Syracuse, N. Y., 5.00
Lauren Wetmore, Esq., Wolcotville, Ct , 10.00
Hon. Francis W. Bird, E. Walpole, Ms., 4.00
Moses Sawin, Southboro', " 2.50
Rev. Pror. C. Francis, Cambridge, "5.00
Miss Francis, " 2.00
Mrs. Mary M. Brooks, Concord, " 10.00
Albert M. Chase, Canton, " 10.00
Mrs. Mary P. Chase, do. do., 10.00
Portland, Me., (by Rev. F. Frothingham,-316 from Sewing Circle-) 40.00
Portsmouth, N. H., (by do.) 10.00
Mr. and Mrs. Richards, Weymouth, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. David Merritt, Salem, 1.00
Samuel May, 20.00
Abby W. May, 5.00
Samuel May, Jr., 20.00
Adeline May, 2.00
Mary G. White, 3.00
Misses McFarland, Leicester, 40.00
Mrs. Kate E. Farnum, Blackstone, 5.00
Mrs. Louisa Greele, Boston, 1.00
Mrs. W. Thornton Davis, Greenfield, 3.00
Mrs. Reuben S. Denny, Boston, 20.00
A. P. Brown, 1.00
A friend, 1.00
Fred. May Holland, 2.00
C. A. S. Hall, 1.00
Nathaniel Waterman, 4.00
Alden Sampson, 1.00
John C. Haynes, 10.00
Rev. A. P. Putnam, Roxbury, 3.00
Joseph Sargent, Worcester, 10.00
E. Gerry Dudley, 5.00
John R. Manley, 20.00
Mrs. R. A. and M. Goddard, 3,00
Miss Jane Alexander, Jamaica Plains, 1.00
Miss Helen Porter, Medford, 5.00
Henry G. Denny, Dorchester, 10.00
Robert Johnson, Boston 1.00
Fred. W. G. May, of Boston, 20.00
Martha R. May, of Boston, 20.00
Charles E. Jenkins, Boston, 10.00
Mrs. Hamilton Willis, "5.00
Miss Spear, " 3.00 
Miss Percy Scarborough, Hingham, 2.00 
Miss Adelaide Whiton, " 3.00
Mrs. Edna Cheney, Boston, 2.00
A Friend, Hingham, 2.00
Daniel Thaxter, Hingham, 2.00
Mrs. Lucy Thaxter, " 2.00
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Boston, 5.00
Mrs. Ruth Buffum, Lynn, 5.00
Wm. L. Garrison, Jr., " 5.00
Birney Mann, Stirling, 1.00
Miss Sallie Holley, 5.00
Miss Caroline Putnam, 1.00
Madame Carteaux, Boston, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. Win. Ashbv, Newburyp't, 10.00
Mrs. R. H. Morrill, 5.00
J. H. Stephenson, Newton, 10.00
Miss Anna Alley, Lynn, 5.00
Mrs. Miriam B. Johnson, Lynn, 5.00
Mrs. M. A. Blair, Warren, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Henshaw, W. Brookfi'd, 5.00
E. F. Henshaw, 3.00
Colman & Gilbert, 1.00
William Bassett, Jr., Lynn, 5.00
Mrs. Silloway, 3.00
Miss Emma Silloway, 1.00
Miss Harriet M. Carlton, Dorchester, 1.00
Miss Rebekah M. Northey, 3.00
Ezekiel and Alice Thacher, Barnstable, 5.00
Alvan and Nancy Howes, " 10.00
J. G. Dodge, West Cambridge, 5.00
Sophia Thoreau, Concord, 5.00
Samuel E. Sewall, 10.00
Richard Clap, Dorchester, 10.00
J. B. Swasey, Boston, 5.00
Mrs. Stephen Clapp, Dorchester, 3.00
Stephen Clapp, " 2.00
T. C. Severance, West Newton, 5.00
W. A. Brown, 3.00
F. Weir, Dorchester, 2.00
W. H. Lackey, Boston, 1.00
Wm. Sparrell, "2.00
A. Merrill, Hallowell, Maine, 20.00
James N. Buffum, Lynn, 25.00
Cornelius Wellington, 10.00
Mrs. L. S. Otis, Boston, 20.00
Miss M. J. Parkman, Boston, 10.00
Mrs. John Parkman, " 10.00
Mrs. Caroline Sparrell, 4.00
Mrs. Adeline Howland, Worcester, 2.00
Miss Sarah E. Wall, " 5.00
Joseph A. Howland, " 2.00
Mrs. H. B. Emerson, Boston, 3.00
Deborah Kimball, 1.25
J. S, 1.00
Friend, 50
Friend, 50
Mrs. M. B. Jackson, Boston, 2.00
Mrs. Mary C. Sawyer, Grantville, 5.00
B. F. Horn, 3.00
John D. Willard, 5.00
J. H. Putnam, Brookline, 3.00
T. B. Drew, 3.00
Simon Mears, 50
Friend, 2.00
Henry Elwell, Jr., 1.00
Lizzie A. Elwell, 1.00
Mrs. James Hall, 1.00
Mrs. Horatio Jenkins, Chelsea, 10.00
<c06>
Harriot Richardson, 5.00
Mrs. Eunice P. Cutter, 1.00
H. Powers, 2.00
Mrs. Cady, 25
S. B. Richardson, 1.00
J. B. Lombard, 1.00
E. S. Coombes, 1.00
Mrs. E. A Morrill, Concord, N. H., 5.00
Maria S. Page, 2.00
Nelly Sedgwick, 1.00
Philip A. Chase 5.00
Mrs. C.J. Thomas, Portland, Maine, 5.00
Miss Sophia Ford, Mrs. 
L. R. Putnam, 1.00
L. S. Putnam, 1.00
Mrs. Mary Ann Carter, 10.00
Miss Sarah Babcock, 5.00
Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, 5.00
Miss Gannett, 25
Mrs. Sarah Marston, 5.00
Mehitable Haskell, 2.00
Mrs. J. W. Lewis, 1.00
Rev. Nathaniel Hall, Dorchester 5.00
Perley King, South Danvers 25.00
Friend, 25
Mr. and Mrs. N. White, N. H., 20.00
Mrs. S. H. Young, 5.00
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, 20.00
William Pope, Dorchester, 10.00
Mrs. Lucretia Reed, " 5.00
J. C. Lindsley, " 10.00
J. B. Peirce, Lynn, 3.00
M. C. Peirce, 2.00
Friend of the Cause, 1.00
Miss Sarah O. Babcock 50
Mrs. I. S. Smith, 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. G. M. Rogers, 5.00
Cyrus Foster, 50
Austin Bearse, 3.00
W. P. S., 1.00
Thomas Sewall, Boston, 10.00
Mrs. William Whiting, Roxbury, 10.00
Stephen Barker, 2.00
Otis Shepherd, 5.00
P. B. Coggswell, 5.00
Horace Shepherd, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. David Mack, 3.00
Nathan Richardson, Warren 5.00
Miss Mary Manning, 1.00
Miss Phoebe Garnaut, 5.00
James Edward Oliver, Lynn, 2.00
Frances M. Cheever, 1.00
Mrs. Bessie S. Lockwood, 3.00
O. W. Holmes, Jr., 50
W. L. G. Clark, 50
Unknown, 50
C. F. Fitz, 1.00
John and Maria Wright, 75
Friend, 25
Eunice D. Knight, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Hallowell, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. Dio. Lewis, 2.00
Mrs. E. Stebbins, Boston 10.00
S. B. S., Boston, 10.00
George W. Walbridge, East Douglas 4.00
Thaddeus Hyatt, Esq., 25.00
Mrs. Hatch, Portsmouth, 10.00
and friends, 5.00
Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I., 2.00

EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Members and friends of the WARRINGTON Anti-Slavery Society, (Eng.)by Ann Robson, Treasurer, 15 00
Friends in EDINBURGH, by Miss E. 
Wigham, 60 00
Leigh Ladies' A. S. Society, by Elizabeth Fletcher, 10 00
Ulverstone A. S. Society, by Ann Fletcher Jackson, 10 00
Ulverstone, by Wm. Jackson, 4 50
Preston A. S. Society, by Jane Clemeshaw, 8 00
Reading, by E. S. Palmer, 2 140
Friends in LEEDS and HALIFAX, by Joseph Lupton, Esq., 51 40
Friends in DUBLIN, by R. D. Webb, Esq., 50 190
Friends in GLASGOW, by Andrew Paton, Esq., 30 00
Friends in BURY, by Mrs. Howarth, 10 00
Mrs. Reid, London, 5 00
Mrs. Sturch, " 10 00
Mrs. Mitchell, 5 00
Mrs. H. Martineau, 5 00
Mrs. Turner, 2 20
Mrs. G. Martineau, 2 00
Friends in MANCHESTER, by Miss Whitlegge, 20 00
Friends in BOLTON, by Mrs. Payne, 22 00
Friends in BRISTOL, by Mrs. Stephens, 28 60
Thomas and Esther Sturge, 200 00
Monsieur Tourgueneff, Paris, 1000.
The friends, both at home and abroad, are earnestly entreated to inform us, not only of my mere clerical errors in the above list, but especially of omissions, as such information helps to recover in case of sums, if such there be, lost on the way.
M. W. CHAPMAN.

THE BOSTON LIBERATOR.
This noble and gallant pioneer journal in the cause of freedom entered upon its fourth decade at the commencement of the present year in a new and handsome dress. Thirty years of holy war against one of the most fearful systems of tyranny that ever insulted the light!-Church and state leagued against its brave and unflinching editor, crying "traitor" and "infidel," and offering prize for his head; yet strong in the majesty of right, they wilt and wither away before him as the myrmidon hosts of Milton's Satan shrunk at the touch of Ithuriel's spear; and now, looking down from his high eminence upon the broken wreck of Slavery's hated power-its confusion and distress-its toothless rage and distraction-he may take up the song of Moses and Israel after their passage through the Red Sea, and say, "Thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy; and in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose un against thee. Thou sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as stubble. The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw the sword; my hand shall destroy them. Fear and dread shall fall upon them. By the greatness of thine arm they shall be still as a stone, till thy people pass over, O Lord-till the people pass over whom thou hast purchased!" Worn with long years of active service in the good old cause,-years in which he has kept painful vigils upon the watch-tower of Emancipation, waiting for the morning to dawn,-William Lloyd Garrison is now drawing near the close of his mortal race; yet, as his gaze rests upon the orient of his heart's hope, he sees it lit up with the bright promise of a glorious day; and, in the exuberance of his joy. he may say, with Simeon of old, "Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace; for mine eyes have seen thy salvation!"-Atlantic Messenger.

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. Mr. Garrison has
become a veteran in the Anti-Slavery cause; and is yet as vigorous and full of zeal and hope, as a young convert. For the same period that Wilberforce
tried to mitigate the evils of slavery, and then found it could not be done, but must be destroyed, has Mr. Garrison been in editorial life; and good service
has he done too. Many of his public addresses, for soundness in Scriptural sentiments, have not been surpassed by any pulpit in the land.

The following record of his labors, and the struggles
through which the anti-slavery friends have passed, we take from the Liberator of the 4th inst. It contains a chapter of facts that will make a large page in American history, to be read with profound astonishment by a future generation. May a kind Providence prolong the life of this friend of universal humanity, until the jubilee trumpet shall sound the day of liberty to all in the land; nay, the 
world. For
"His country is the wide, wide world,
His countrymen mankind. -Syracuse Wesleyan.

The Liberator, the organ of Mr. Garrison, commenced the year with new type, &c. Although an inveterate radical, Mr. Garrison's ability, real courage and honesty have been of signal service to the community. We differ with him in many things; but, nevertheless, we take pleasure in bearing
testimony to the unfaltering energy and unswerving fidelity with which he has maintained his position through thirty years of unparalleled calumny and abuse.-Delhi (N. Y.) Republican.

A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Room for
$1.00 each. They are much admired.

WEST NEWTON.
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, February 13,
1861. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
West Newton Mass.
Feb. 1.

