THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR. 
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 51. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1663. 
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
Specimen of Democratic blackguardism, No. 1.
ACTS AND RESOLVES OF THE THIRTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS, FIRST REGULAR SESSION.
[Not copied from the record, but put down according to recollection, and warranted correct in the main.]
1. An act in relation to niggers.
2. An act to emancipate niggers.
3. An act to prohibit what-ye-call-it in the Territories.
4. An act to abolish what-ye-call-it in the District of Columbia.
5. An act concerning niggers.
6. An act to confiscate niggers.
7. An act to emancipate the wives and babies of contrabands.
8. An act to emancipate niggers who fight for the confederacy.
9. An act to make ‘em fight for the Union.
10. An act to make freed niggers love to work.
11. An act to educate said free niggers.
12. An act to make paper worth more than gold.
13. An act to make a little paper worth more than a good deal more gold.
14. An act to free somebody’s niggers.
15. An act in relation to niggers.
16. An act to prohibit importations by increasing duties.
17. An act to make white folks squeal, otherwise known as the Tax Bill.
18. An act authorizing the President to draft white folks.
19. An act authorizing the President to arm niggers.
20. An act to give us a little more paper.
21. An act concerning niggers.
22. An act to make omnibus tickets a legal tender.
23. An act to compensate Congressmen for using their influence in obtaining contracts.
24. An act authorizing the issue of more omnibus tickets.
25. An act declaring white men almost as good as niggers, if they behave themselves. (Laid on the table.)
26. An act to repeal the clause of the Constitution relating to the admission of new States.
27. An act to repeal the rest of the Constitution.
28. Resolutions pledging the government to pay for emancipated niggers.
29. An act authorizing the President to pay for said negroes. (Went under.)
30. An act to confiscate things.
31. Resolutions explaining that some other things are not meant.
32. An act in relation to niggers.
33. An act to make niggers white.
34. An act to make ‘em a little whiter.
35. An act to make ‘em a good deal whiter.
36. An act in relation to contrabands.
37. An act in relation to colored people.
38. An act concerning niggers.
39. Resolution of adjournment.
-Providence Post.
Specimen of Democratic blackguardism, No. 2.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas, the undersigned, A-bray-ham Lincoln, Low-pressure President of a few of the United States, having observed that the people thereof, styling themselves Butternuts, prefer the Constitution of the African, he therefore deposes and says, as follows, to wit:-
And whereas, the aforesaid Butternuts are bringing to bear a pressure upon me which is very embarrassing-therefore, be it hereby
Resolved, That the “Military necessity” business is about played out, and that hereafter the undersigned will be compelled to confine his sportive gambols to the limits of the Constitution.
And be it further enacted, that after this date, the aforesaid Africans won’t be free on the 1st of January as much as I thought they would be before the election, in consequence of Butternuts.
I would also state that the Black Republican amusement of putting Democrats into prison don’t seem to pay. It was an agreeable pastime, but very productive of Butternuts. It was a clear loss to us of sixteen pounds of straw for each entertainment, and straw is advancing-we ought to have bedded them with treasury notes-but it’s too late to do that now, in consequence of Butternuts. That portion of our festivities are, therefore, hereby declared to have come to an untimely end. The audience will accept our thanks for their kind attention and liberal patronage.
In conclusion, permit me to remark that Butternuts are very particular. They think the Constitution is “some punkins.” They think that everybody ought to have a trial-which is exactly synonomous to saying that there are those in our virtuous and Christian party who ain’t persons of truth and veracity; men, indeed, who would not scruple to misrepresent a political enemy to a provost marshal! Perish the thort!
What’s the umbrage? (as the feller said when a female gave him the mitten.) What’s the umbrage? Nobody ain’t hurt. Haven’t we given every one of our prisoners sixteen pounds of straw? Certainly we have! And ain’t we giving all of them “honorable discharges” at our earliest convenience-which is more than we can expect to get ourselves? Certainly we are. True, we don’t tell them what they are arrested for; but if they don’t know themselves, how can they expect us to know? There’s no use to be unreasonable.
Fellow-citizens, I am an old man. I have studied a great deal of tariff, and mauled any quantity of rails: I am the author of the sublime and immortal expression “Birds and animals are seen at a disadvantage through a fog.” That brilliant and beautiful conception was born in the brain of your chief Magistrate. I flatter myself that I have elevated and dignified American character, and shed considerable luster upon free institutions, but my great, peculiar, and truly wonderful forte is telling anecdotes. And, speaking of anecdotes, the particularness of the Butternuts reminds me of one:
The widow Ricketts (one of my first clients) used always to be illustrating how particular her son Erastus was. So one morning, she come over to our house, and says she, “Well, I do think that Erastus is getting more particular every day. Why, it was only this morning that he poured out a whole cup full of hot coffee, jest because he happened to see a small little bed-bug in it!” Erastus was about as particular with reference to bed-bugs as the Butternuts are about the African, &c. No more at present, expect that Butternut pressure is squeezing me so hard that I almost fancy myself a lemon, instead of A. LINCOLIN, Pres., pro tem.
-Bellefontaine Gazette.
<c02>
Specimen of pious scoundrelism. 
A MEETING.
A meeting of the barbers of New York is recommended, to memorialize the President on the subject of the Emancipation Proclamation, and urge him to adhere to it to the bitter end. Why should they not hold such a meeting? Some persons ridicule the idea. Nonsense! These men have had more to do with the heads of their fellow-men than any other class of citizens. They ought to know something about races and something about cooling the hot brains of rebellions citizens. At all events, they are infinitely better fitted to the work than the men who assembled at Cooper Institute on Monday evening. They are better fitted, because, as a general rule, they are more practical in their ideas, and know more of human nature and general dealings with mankind. But there is another and a better reason why they are more fit for the work. They will not, by the new business which they undertake, injure their old business, or bring any contempt on the profession they are members of. That these clergymen are doing this, is only too sadly evident. 
There is not in all the history of the past two years a darker page than that which records the division of the American churches. It was brought about by Northern and Southern clergymen insisting on subjecting the Church to the purposes of the State, They severed the holiest bond of union between North and South in their attempt to use the commission of the Divine Master for the control of earthly politics. They soiled the garments of their high calling, defaced the image of their Leader and Director, which should always be visible in the life and conversation of His ministers. They made the Church to be a despised political machine in this little corner of the universe—the. Church which He made to be one body, including the prophets, apostles and martyrs of all times, all ages, all countries; for aught we know, all planets, all stars!
To those clergymen who propose to meet again and use their character a God's messengers for the control of this miserable negro question in America, we claim the right to be bearers of a message which they seem never to have heard, though it sounds down the ages from the peaceful hills of Galilee. It is the message of the Gospel of Peace. It is the message your forgotten Lord—forgotten in your political assemblies—gave to you, but which it is necessary for those who should receive it from you, to deliver to you. It was summed up in the blessing He promised on the peace-makers. It was the blessing promised through Him by the angels at Bethlehem. It is the blessing which this sad old world will realize only when the ministers of Christ go forth humbly and prayerfully to preach and to teach the simple, holy, peace-giving doctrines of the religion of the Child of Bethlehem.
It is not for you to preach patriotism. The word, the idea, is nowhere in your commission. Christ and his Apostles never named it as a Christian virtue. It is no part of the Christian religion. Saints, and martyrs gone long since to God, an innumerable company, are ashamed —if shame can reach the heavenly abodes —are ashamed of you, their unworthy successors among men, that you debase the religion of Christ to the purposes of poor human passions, and the upholding or the overthrow of poor human institutions." Be. ye wise as serpents, and harmless as doves, but beware of men." They will not only persecute you, but they will seduce you into all their schemes of human aggrandizement, will use your sacred calling for their selfish ends, will sell your religious character and appropriate the payment to themselves: and when they have stained your reputations, destroyed your purity, reduced you "to the low grade of the pot-house politician, or the radical member of a brawling Congress, they will turn you out " roofless and shivering," and then your Master will disown you forever.
This Union may be saved. God willing, the men of America will save it in spite of rebellion, in spite of privy conspiracy, in spite of church division, in spite of that radical rancorous hatred which has been encouraged between North and South by political clergymen on both sides. But it is to be saved by human means, in the hands of God, and not by the" foolishness of preaching.' Remember then your work and its requirements, your Master and His example. Go to the sinner with your message of truth, go to the sick with the consolations of the promises, go to the dying with the words that speak of heaven; but beware that, as clergy men and servants of Christ, you have no part or lot in the strife of politics, or the wars that desolate the earth, lest when you go up to the Throne with the report of your accomplished mission, some poor slaveholding rebel, saved by the all-merciful grace of the Savior of men. meet you at the foot of the Throne, in white robes, and point to the blood on your garments as the bar to your presence among the redeemed out of all ages, and peoples, and tongues.—New York Journal of Commerce.

Specimen of Democratic sham patriotism. 
THE RADICALISM OF THIS TRIAL HOUR.
The Abolition ministers can declaim in their pulpits and the demagogues who are using them canrattle off at the caucuses, quantities of talk about freedom, slavery, negro equality and so forth, to apply not to the communities in which they live, but to communities numbering in the aggregate EIGHT MILLIONS of white men and FOUR MILLIONS of slave! But what does ail this amount to? This is a question of race; and it is certain that the separate communities that make up this eight millions claim the right to deal with it; and a great majority of twenty millions in the free States will recognize their claim to be valid. It is astounding to hear shallow men so flippantly decide the deepest problem that man was ever called to solve.
The Radical journals are trying to make the message bear wholly on the point that this country cannot continue to be part free and part slave, and are dissenting and criticising the principle of a separation of the race and colonization. In fact they discard the plan, and are in opposition to the President. It is noteworthy that they are getting on to the Garrison ground as to the Constitution. We are told that" it is perfectly idle to fall back upon the doing of the framers of the Federal Constitution''! The whole pack probably will be in the full, sonorous cry of the old Abolition hounds, that this instrument is a covenant with death and an agreement with bell, and that we ought to cease to go by it! Let the people mark the men who thus regard the Constitution. Disregard of law ha been the bane of our country. At the South, its fruit has been this rebellion. At the North, it fruit was a supply of the Means by which this rebellion was nursed. The noble conservative phalanx who are striving for the sacred cause of country, and command the civil situation, steer clear of both Abolition and Secession, a twin enemies; and stand as a unit by the dearly prized local government and nationality that make" the two pillar of our polity, and are grandly recognized in the Federal Constitution.—Boston Post.
<c03>
Selections
THE PRESIDENT’S PLAN EXAMINED.
WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT PROPOSE?
He proposes to Congress the adoption of a joint resolution of both Houses, recommending to the several States an amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
For what purpose? Is it to authorize and empower the Federal Government to abolish slavery in any or all of the States, in manner and form prescribed? No. By a careful examination, it will be perceived that the proposed new articles of the Constitution neither provide for, nor recognize, nor contemplate, any such national power.
Instead of this, they only provide that an offer of compensation, in the manner therein prescribed, shall be made by the United States to any slave State that shall abolish slavery at any time previous to January1, 1900; and also, that Congress may appropriate money and otherwise provide for the colonization of free colored persons, with their own consent; also confirming the liberty of all who have been or shall be liberated by the chances of war; and compensating loyal slave masters for the loss of slaves thus liberated.
There is nothing, in all this, that makes it obligatory on any State to abolish slavery at all, at any time, either before or after the first of January, 1900. If the ‘proposed amendments of the Constitution should be made, even by the concurrence of every slave State, that concurrence would not bind either one of them to avail itself of the offer, or to abolish slavery at any future time, for there is nothing in the proposed amendments that requires it. Yet the President, most unaccountably, says:
"The plan would, I am confident, secure peace more speedily than can be done by force alone, while if would cost less, considering the amounts and manner of payment and times of payment, and the amounts would be easier paid than will be the additional cost of the war, if we rely solely on force. It is most likely— very likely—that it would cost no blood at all."
We have read, and re-read, carefully, the President's proposed amendments, and can see nothing in them to warrant such a conclusion. Very certainly, there is nothing in the terms of the proposed articles themselves that could bind any of the States to an act of emancipation, or that even amounts to a promise, however vague and indefinite, of such action. It binds the United States to make compensation, to the States that will abolish slavery within the time specified, but it does not bind the States to abolish slavery. The stipulation, the promise, is only on one side! The only provision that binds the slave States to any thing is the following:—
"Any State having received bonds as aforesaid, and afterward introducing or tolerating slavery therein, shall refund the United States the bonds so
received, or the value thereof, and all interest paid thereon."
The effect of this is, not to authorize and empower the United States Government, even in such an extreme contingency, to interfere and protect the slaves, in their right to freedom, after the United States had actually ransomed them, by the payment of money, but merely to provide that the States, after having received the ransom money, and yet failing to liberate the slaves, or re-enslaving them, or introducing other slaves, or tolerating their enslavement, shall refund back the money to the United States. It provides for the security of the Government's ransom money, but not for the security of the freed-man's freedom, nor for the final extinction and exclusion of slavery, the cause of the rebellion! The nation is to take care of its dollars, but not of its liberties, nor of its security from future rebellions.
The clause last quoted says, impliedly, to the slave States: If you will, previous to the year 1900, try the experiment of free labor, the United States shall pay you for your slaves. But if, at any time afterwards, you shall get sick of your bargain, and choose to introduce slavery again, the United States Government will release you from the contract, only you must refund the money you have received, "and all interest thereon "!
The adoption of such an amendment of the Constitution would be such a national guarantee of the right of slaveholding as has, perhaps, never been claimed, or conceived of, before as possible. How, then, could the President, in proposing it, as a means of securing and preserving the Union, make use of such language, in his Message, as the following:
"The plan is proposed as permanent constitutional law. It cannot become such without the concurrence of—first, two-thirds of Congress, and afterwards three-fourths of the States. The requisite three-fourths of the Slates will necessarily include seven of the slave States. Their concurrence, if obtained, will give assurance of their severally adopting emancipation at! no distant day, upon the new constitutional terms. This assurance would end the struggle now, and save the Union forever."
It would give no such "assurance" at all, nor the shadow of any thing of the kind.
And how farcical, by the side of the proposed' amendments, becomes the magniloquent close of the Message:—
"We say that we are for the Union. The world will not forget that, while we say this, we do know how to save it. We, even we here, hold the power and bear the responsibility.
In giving freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free, honorable alike in what we give and what we preserve.
We shall nobly save or meanly lose the last best hope of the earth.
Other meant may succeed—this could not fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just—a way which, if followed, the world will ever applaud, and God must forever bless."
If the President had proposed, as he has not, a national abolition of slavery, now, when it is imperatively needed, prohibiting it, henceforth, forever, he might have said this with a better grace. Even then he could have said nothing more. And, instead of challenging the world's applause, and the blessing of God, for the act, the language of humble confession and penitence, for the long delay of justice, as justice, and not as a military and political necessity, would have been more becoming.
HOW WOULD THE PLAN WORK?
Just as any other plan would work, or does work, or has worked, that ignores God and Humanity, Nature and Revelation, the Law and the Gospel, the foundation principles of eternal, immutable, irrepealable, inexorable Bight, the foundation principles of civil government in general, and of our own Republican institutions in particular.
How would it work? Why? How have all similar expedients “worked” for seventy years past?—worked, in bringing the nation into its present predicament—worked, in keeping it there—worked, in the Cabinet—worked, in the Executive Mansion— worked, in the Army—and worked, in Congress?
<c04>
The president says that "Without slavery, rebellion could never have existed; without slavery, it could not continue." "How would it work," then, to let slavery continue thirty-seven years longer, provided the slaveholders, most of them rebels or in sympathy with them, cannot agree among themselves, to abolish it? "How would it work" to adopt an implied pledge or tolerance to slavery, in the meantime, and forever afterward, unless the slaveholders become abolitionists?
How would it work? The plan, if adopted and confided in by the Free State?, would allay anti-slavery agitation, by illusive dreams of coming deliverance, through the action of the slaveholders themselves. And it would tie up their hands, and the hands of the Federal Government, from any future action against slavery.
How would it work? Thirty-seven years more of the reign of the Fugitive Save Law, the abnegation of Personal Liberty Bills, the continued rule of the Dred Scott Judiciary, the abrogation, by the Supreme Court, in the pending case of Virginia versus New York, of the right of the Free Slates to exclude slavery: thirty-seven years more of the absolute, unbroken supremacy of the slaveholders—whether few or many—in the Councils and Legislative halls of the Nation; and no provision for, or prospect of, the its termination, even at the end of the thirty-seven years! A lease of thirty-seven years longer for the life, the vigor, and the controlling power of the pro-slavery Democracy, whose life is bound up with the life of slavery—the Seymour-and-Woods-and-Rynders-and-Herald-and-World party, in league with the Rum and Five Points power, to control the commercial metropolis, the Empire State, and with them the Nation. If the Republican party wishes to sign its own death-warrant, to fasten the halter with its own hands around its own neck, and knock out the scaffolding, the President has given it a fair chance. The adoption of his "Plan" would do it, undoubtedly, and most effectually.
How would it work? The President goes into an elaborate argument, to show the advantages, to the nation, of thirty-seven years' delay of emancipating, because, as he calculates,
"At that time we shall probably have one hundred millions of people to share the burdens, instead of thirty-one millions, as now."
A cool calculation, to be sure, for the benefit of the Whites, at the expense of more than an entire generation of the colored population, who are to be kept in slavery all that time, for the lightening of our burden of taxation! But the President forgets to calculate how much the slave population would likewise increase, during that time, multiplying the numbers of slaves for whose emancipation a compensation would have to be provided. Nor does he undertake to tell us to what a gigantic growth the numbers of the slaveholders and the political strength of the Slave Power would likewise have increased; nor how the spirit of liberty, freedom of speech, and of the press could be preserved, in the presence and under the influence and power of slavery, all that time—nor how the country could be secured against new aggressions and fresh outbreaks of pro-slavery rebellion! Does he suppose that the renewed otter of compensation, so recently rejected, would so delight the slaveholders, now, that they would give up all thoughts of rebellion, from this time, henceforth and forever, on account of it?
The President says that "neither the war, nor proceedings under the Proclamation of September 22d, are to be stayed by the recommendation of this plan." And he speaks of the seven slave States that he expects will vote in favor of his plan. This must include Virginia and Maryland: the latter held in the Union by military force, and the former, at least its centre and capital, still in the hands of the enemy, whom we have not yet been able to dislodge. If the "Proclamation and proceedings under it" are needed anywhere, to-day, they are quite as much needed in Virginia as anywhere. Yet, in Virginia and Maryland, the President proposes to wait thirty-seven years, for the operation of his compensated emancipation scheme upon the State Legislatures! Was there ever infatuation or confusion like this? —New York Principia.

ABOLITIONISM BECOMING RESPECTABLE.
Abolitionism, as defined by sham democrats and their allies, is becoming a very respectable thing. They stigmatize as abolitionists all who do not acknowledge the righteousness of slavery, its compatibility with divine ordination, its perfect harmony with republican institutions, and its just claims upon the respect and reverence of the wisest statesmen I and the soundest political economists. If a man now repeats with emphasis the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence—that all men are created free and equal, and are endowed with the inalienable right of liberty—he is an abolitionist. If he insists that human slavery is opposed to natural laws, and rests upon an outrage and usurpation, he is an abolitionist. If he contend that differences in color necessarily imply no superiority in mental power, then he is an abolitionist, and would disregard God's imprint on his human offspring. If be contend that the white man has no more moral right to enslave the black than the native African has to enslave the unfortunate mariner who finds himself cast upon a barbarous shore, then he is not only an abolitionist, but he is guilty of underrating the majesty of white humanity, and is to be taunted as a “niggerite" and advocate of negro equality with the cultivated raced of Europe and America. If he believes that slavery tends to destroy the moral forces of the nation, and to enervate the industry of a people in whose midst it is operative, then he is to be stigmatized as an abolitionist. If he believes that slavery has prompted the present rebellion, that it is the " great black commissary of the confederacy,”—as Dr. Bellows styles it,—and that emancipation of the slaves of rebels is demanded as a necessity of the war, then all the tribes of sham democrats and rebel sympathizers combine to denounce him as an abolitionist: and this word has really become the mad-dog cry by which attempts are made to disparage and to bring into disrepute every man who contends that slavery bat no superior claims to respect, and that if it stands in the way of preserving the Union, or of maintaining the authority of the Government, it should be trampled beneath the feet of oar victorious armies.
But as we have said, abolitionism, as defined above, is fast becoming respectable. Of the late members of Buchanan's cabinet, we find at least four who rest under the ban of the pro-slavery politicians, and who are good enough abolitionists according to the modern standard. These are the venerable Lewis Case, late Secretary of State, John A. Dix, Edwin M Stanton and Joseph Holt. Then we have such men as Gens. Hunter, Butler, Hooker, McClernard, Sprague, and hosts of others, all democrats recently, but now abolitionists, according to the latest definition of the Northern pro-slavery lexicographers. Going back, we find the eminent historian and scholar, George Bancroft, once the distinguished representative of a democratic admin-
<c05>
istration at the court St. James, now an abolitionist  the newly-defined type. Then we have Robert J. Walker, a man who was called from the "cotton State" of Mississippi, to head the Treasury; Department under Mr. Polk, and whom Mr. Buchanan selected above all others for the Governorship of Kansas; he, too, comes under the ban for being an abolitionist.
And so we might go on, and we should find that scores and hundreds of those who have been the honored men of a better democracy than exists today, are now the most zealous defenders of doctrines and measures which call down upon their heads the mad-dog cry referred to, from the small-beer politicians and pro-slavery advocates who, in so large a degree, make up the democratic party. Are we not right in saying that abolitionism is fast becoming respectable? And does it not bid fair, at no distant day, to become popular also? The truth is, the bone and sinew, head and heart of the old democratic party, are now in the ranks of those who are denounced as abolitionists, by a set of " soldiers of fortune " and broken down politicians, who are anxious to galvanize into life the old, effete, organization of democracy, merely for the personal and political advantages which they hope to derive from it. They ignore Jefferson and every doctrine j he ever enunciated. They stand on doctrines as diametrically opposed to true democracy as darkness to light. They are fighting to revive the dead. They have allied themselves to slavery because in that is their hope of political supremacy. But they are doomed. Their hopes will fail. Their dead will never rise. The progress of events is against them.—Maine State Press.

C0L0RED SOLDIERS AND CONTRABANDS. 
Ten days since, the steamers Darlington and Ben De Ford went out with two companies of South Carolina Volunteers to forage along the coast. They returned successful, with so much excellent pine lumber, saw-mill saws, &c., that it astonished our clerks and wise men out of all mathematical calculation, and they figured $25,000 worth up to $125,000 in less than no time. Never mind. The colored ' soldiers fought well—that is everywhere admitted, 
Then came news of Gen. Hunter's appointment. Was there not joy among us? Next arrived the Colonel of the South Carolina Volunteers. A more than nine days' wonder in any other country than this, that a man so brilliant should put himself at the head of a negro regiment (always pronouncing the,
word negro as if spelled with two g’s).
Some of us did not wonder. Some of us thanked God, in the depths of our hearts, that" the hour and the man" had come. The negroes need men to lead them, and men and women to teach them—not fops and imbeciles, nor yet speculators, who, j unable (for want of capacity) to earn three hundred a year at any honest calling, have decided to commit a worse than theft upon the country by officering a colored regiment (and " making a sacrifice of themselves") at a thousand or two a year. Col. Higginson stayed not one day in the city. He landed in the morning, and at eve was with his regiment. Under his hand the work will be well done. 
Thanksgiving went off grandly, whites and blacks, citizens and soldiers, entering into the festivities of the occasion with great gusto.
There were religious meetings on the plantations and in the towns, dinners and suppers, short rides, social gatherings, balls and frolics, and more of the latter than could be desired. Gen. Saxton and staff spent the morning at the Pope plantation, and attended service at the Baptist Church, which is in the central part of the same island. There were gathered from one-to three thousand people, to give thanks for freedom. Oh, it was a great day to us all.
The colored people sung their own hymns, and then joined with teachers and superintendents in singing:
Our country, 'tis of thee,
Sweet land of liberty.
It is now a country, indeed, to them. A sermon followed the usual exercises; but the leading feature of the meeting was the address of General Saxton, urging them to enlist, and learn to fight the battles of right for themselves. He told them the story of Anthony Burns, and of the brave deeds of Col. Higginson in that affair, and brought tears to the eyes of women, and blessings to the lips of men. by his recital.
He spoke of his noble mother, who died on Thanksgiving day who taught him to respect the rights of all and be true to them, and especially to remember the wrongs done to negroes; urged the women to teach their children, that freedom was more than life, and that if it was not worth fighting for and defending, it was not worth having.
Gen. Saxton is a good man and his whole heart is in this work. Nearly every Sabbath he is out at the churches on the plantations, or by his cheering words encourages the people. No man could stand more firmly as the friend of the negro, among the violent haters of that oppressed race by which he is surrounded. The prejudice against the blacks among the officers and soldiers here is wonderful. Did it end there, it might in time be overcome, but it extends to every one that befriends them.—[Port Royal corr. of N.'Y. Tribune.

VIEWS OF AN INTELLIGENT NEGRO.
Samuel Wilkeson, Esq. of the New York Tribune, in a letter from the Peninsula, relates the following remarkable conversation held with an intelligent negro on the subject of the slave policy of the Government:—
I have talked with many intelligent men of color on this subject. The superior man of all is known as "Tom." I one day drew him out of his guarded silence on this theme by saying, " I am surprised, Tom, that the negroes in this Peninsula don't fight for us."
"I reckon you ain't. Mr. W.; you know too much."
“Why don’t they fight for us, Tom?"
"They expected to, sir, and all the colored men, from here to Texas, expected to."
"Why didn't they?
"You know as well as I. We were driven from your lines and camps, and pretty plainly told that you didn't want anything to do with as; that you meant to carry on the war, and leave us in slavery at the end of the war. So we left you to carry on the war as you could, and a pretty poor fist you are making of it, too, Mr. W," Mid Tom, warming in to earnestness. "The North can't conquer the Booth without the help of the slaves. We men of color, who nave communication with each other through all the States, (the leading men, I men,) know this. We know, too, that if the war lasts, one party or the other party will give us our freedom."
"What is that yon say—the slaveholders free their slaves? “
"They certainly will do it, if they can't whip you otherwise. You may depend on that. My friends in the Sooth ail tell me so. Our position, Mr. W., is like that of the San Domingo blacks. They put
<c06>
their aid in the market between the white and mulattoes—put it for sale. The price was their freedom. We mean to sell ourselves for freedom—we hope to you Northern men. If your politicians and Generals kick us away, we will try to make our market with the rebels. But you had better bargain with us—had better free us, and arm us. How long would this war last, if we were freed by act of Congress and the President's Proclamation—both of them ratified in General Orders by the Commanders of all the Union armies in the South? Why, the rebel armies would melt away in a week. Every officer and every private who had any interest of any kind in a plantation, or village even, would run home to protect it against imagined injury. Consider us armed; there's no use of talking, Mr. W. The revelation at the South is accomplished, and the Union is saved; and you can't save it without the social revolution. And, mark my words, Mr. W. the attempt to save it without doing us justice will end in your own political slavery, and your own ruin, and in this England will be the principal agent.
There are colored men in Washington who know the value of the dinner-table talk of great men, and Jeff. Davis, and Keitt, and Floyd, have always made much of the jealousy in England of the manufactures of your North. You have got to have as, Mr. W. Our climate will kill your troops, save in December, January, February and March. The South is a wilderness. You are ignorant of it, and can be ambushed every day. And it is so big that, if with half a million men you overrun it, it would take a million men to occupy it. And then, what sort of 4 Union will you have saved, in which the people of the thirteen States refuse to take political action, and have but to raise their fingers to their slaves to set them loose upon you, and drive yon northward? You hail better take us. Mr. W. Indeed, you have got to take ns. For if you with to back out of this war, you won't he permitted to do it. You have got to conquer or be-conquered. I know the slaveholders. They went into this war for power; and if you don't whip them in Virginia and South Carolina, they will whip you in Pennsylvania and New York, and then reconstruct the Union, with themselves at the top, and you at the bottom. You white men of the South out of slavery; and Mr. W., you have not a great deal of time left in which to decide what you will do!”
Tom speaks the sentiments of his race. Statesmen and soldiers will heed them. S. W.

THE BLACK SOLDIERS OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Mrs. Frances D. Gage writes to the Independent an account of the mustering into the army of the First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers:—
"The black soldiers were marshaled before the headquarters of Gen. Saxton—a stalwart band— proudly shouldering their guns, as they stood in their red pants, blue coats, and caps. Gen. Saxton, (one of God's noblemen,) whom the world will honor, came out and stood before them in military costume. Grouped around were parties of scoffing soldiers—here and there an officer, whose curled lip and upturned nose told the whole story of his patriotism and philanthropy—while groups of negroes, of all ages and sizes, filled op tie circle, watching with staring eyes for this strange ceremony. Gen. Saxton is tall with a finely moulded figure, straight as an arrow, very graceful in his motions, and exceedingly active. After showing them the first movements of the drill, and having them follow him for a few moments, he addressed them, telling them in plain but very understandable language what would be expected of them as soldiers. He then administered the oath, and turning toward the crowd of sneering officers, soldiers and lackeys, with a clear voice he pronounced them all free—they, their wives, children, fathers, brothers and sisters—' and all your relations,' he added; ‘and you have as good right to freedom as I have, or any other living man. God never made a man to be a slave.' As he said this, as with one tumultuous feeling of enthusiasm, every man in the company sprung his hat from his head, and, swinging it high in air, gave three of the most tremendous cheers I ever heard. No one had prompted this, or hinted at it. It came as the rushing of waters, and there was nought to hinder. They were free: Government had acknowledged their manhood."

OUR ENGLISH FRIENDS INSTRUCTED.
The London Inquirer for November 22d contains an extract from a letter from an American clergyman, (understood to be the Rev. Joseph H. Allen, of Jamaica Plain.) which, if there, be any potency in truth. Mated in words that scintillate and burn, should enlighten the purblind eyes of our English brethren:—
"It is not very bard to understand how differently a good many things here must seem to as, and to you at a distance. A certain amount of respect—though not assent—we can also accord to a sincere, consistent, and unqualified profession of non-resistance, and a condemnation of our struggle on that ground. It would be idle and unjust in us to expect you to share our passions, or even, very strongly, our feelings, which have as distinctly national a coloring as what I was accustomed to observe and admire in England. But there are two or three matters of pure judgment, which it gives me surprise that some of you should overlook; though by a scrap from a letter from Mr. Newman, in the Transcript, (which I sent.) from Mr. Mill’s papers in Fraser and Westminster, and from the book of Professor Cairnes, it is clear that the materials are not wanting for judgment in England. Here, they are too intimately part of our nature and ourselves to allow us easily to analyze them, or to speak of them without feeling and impersonally.
One thing which I think ought to have some weight with you it, the absolute unanimity among all those persons whom you know and think of with any respect and honor. The sort of peace language which you employ—which means, if we understand, it, peace got by submission—is the language here only of the most profligate class of proslavery Democrats. As to this statement, there is absolutely no qualification or abatement. It is by no means the case, as you seem to imply, that peace men and Christians are suppressing their convictions. My uncle, Dr.—, prominent among peace advocates, gives with all heartiness and joy his two sons—one as lieutenant, (since returned,) and one as chaplain. The Quakers in Pennsylvania, out of pure religious sense of duty, have been forward to more than fill their quota in the army. The first recruit in the ranks in this village, for July’s call, was a young man of first rank as to family, scholarship, and professional position, who went of his free will to join as a private the retreating army in the Peninsula. The 44th regiment, which has just sailed for Newbern, is made up very largely of th
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
Consummate flower of the young men and gentlemen of this vicinity; and so in various proportions of the other regiments.  
You have seen, perhaps, the names of several of 'the best of our younger clergymen who have enlisted the lowest offices, or in the ranks: you must have seen accounts of the magnificent, impassioned, tragical heroism of men of all walks in life —from Marblehead fishermen and Penobscot lumberers to the men of the prairie and the frontier; and of my father's four sons, I can testify that there is not one who has not long and anxiously considered, this past summer, whether his duty should require him to go or stay, who does not stand ready to answer the call when it is plainly made to him. And, with all the better class of recruits, there is but one spirit—infinite and uncomplaining patience under all suffering, eagerness to be at their post, if kept from it by wounds or sickness, and unhesitating devotion to the object of the war.
Now I say, distinctly, that this spirit is absolutely unanimous among all those you think of with any sympathy or respect, and that you ought to give it weight in your judgment. Sumner. Phillips, Whittier, Bryant, Garrison, May—with shades of different temperament, are one in conviction. Can you see so much better than they all? Do you suppose they do not feel the infinite distress, horror, and agony of the war as well as you? Yet (to quote your phrase) not one is seeking ' an obvious reason for discontinuing a war which has brought no glory,' &c., or could possibly employ such a phrase, except such creatures as Vallandigham and Fernando Wood, who are deep in a profligate conspiracy to remand this nation to the dominion of the Slave Power. We know that the only hope of deliverance from that power is to fight this fight through. If anything ever gives us a passing distrust of its issue, it is not that the cause is not right, or the means are insufficient: but that sometimes the Government have not seemed in full sympathy with the nation; because officers (like Buell) have been trusted until their trust seemed crumbled and fretted away: and, not least, because this conspiracy has had its fires deliberately fanned by those whom we had absolutely trusted to be our friends in this awful contest.
If the slave empire of the South becomes the ruling power of this continent, it will not be because our hearts were faithless or our hands slack, but because British speculators have furnished the cannon and shell to murder our boys in the field; because ' 290' British merchants have subscribed to put pirate ships afloat to weary us into despair by the ruin of our commerce; because the British Government allows shelter to the Nashville, and turns away the Tuscarora, and is at this moment (if the Liverpool papers tell the truth) suffering an ironclad fleet to be outfitted, in open daylight and boastfully, to make our defence of freedom hopeless. If it had not been for that 'moral support,’ which the Times boasts is all but universal in the English nation, we all fully believe the rebellion would have been at an end last spring.
And again, you should know that there has never been a moment when peace could have been had on easy terms, that would not have put this nation at the merry of the South. The specific charge against the Republicans, which I just saw in a Boston paper, is that they did not secure peace by guaranteeing slavery perpetual in the Constitution, and extending it over half the territories. As to a division of territory, it would have been avowedly accepted by the North as a baffled and beaten power—the world, and the South, and we, and you would have known it to be so. And they would have accepted no division that did not carry them to the Pennsylvania line, and within one hundred miles of the lakes, besides giving them all Missouri and Kansas, Now, at least, we have secured Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, half Virginia. Missouri and the great West to freedom—a territory at least as fertile, and five or six times as great as all England and France—which, as the world goes, is no small compensation for a year of war. Besides this, we think we have, by securing the Mississippi, saved you and ourselves from the remorse and disgrace of having a freebooting slave empire in control of the Gulf and the Spanish Main—that disaster is saved already: is that nothing? And we think, too, that slavery itself is fatally shaken, and will not survive this war. 
Now, can you remember a war in history in which the results for humanity were so great and plain as these? We know, if you do not. that the war was the only price by which they could have been had—our only alternative for shame, guilt and contempt. And so we have given money and Wood unstinting, and shall continue to do it, as long as that end is had in view—that is, till the prize is won, or till the pro-slavery democracy, whose phrases are caught and echoed in your religious papers, has succeeded in dividing and defeating us, and reducing us to a sullen and infidel despair. Pray let your next words be such as to help our English brothers to see this thing in its true light"

THE PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE.
When we had occasion, a short time since, to comment on the extraordinary concession by a Boston Republican paper of a right on the part of the State of Massachusetts, and any other State, to establish human slavery within its borders, we did not expect so soon to meet with a recognition of property in man from a higher quarter, from one whom, last of all, we should have looked for it. But such is the case. It is with inexpressible pain and mortification that we see the President of the United States, for the greater part of his life the inhabitant of a free State, the chosen leader of a party which is based on the denial of the right of slavery, and whose fundamental principle has always been that the right of property in human beings was not recognized in the Federal Constitution, after a war of two years for the perpetuation of that institution, in which he has indeed shown that he has learned much, still in his official capacity, and in his official message—a document which will be read throughout the civilized world—admits that there is a right of property in man which it would be wrong for him to interfere with, without compensating the alleged owners for depriving them of it. Such an admission, from such a source, fills us, we say, with sorrow, almost with indignation, and tends far more than would any disaster to our armies in the field to make us fear for the ultimate success of the cause of the Union.
The President shows in his Message that he fully understands that slavery is the cause of the rebellion; that by slavery it is upheld; and that slavery must be destroyed before there can be any hopes of restoration of the Union, or of peace and harmony between its now conflicting sections. This he understands, and sets forth in his peculiar style with much force. But so strong are the prejudices he has imbibed from his youth up. in regard to the enslaved race, so one-sided have been the sources of information from which he has formed his opinions, so much has he been under the control of influences favorable to slavery, that he has not yet learned to discard totally and entirely the doctrine that one man can rightfully hold another in bondage, and that the exercise of the power to do so by the stronger over the weaker, gives the former a right of property which others are bound to respect. If the President had studied both sides of the question, we feel sure that he never would have written that sad passage in his Massage. If a race of white men had been made slaves of in the South, and had aided by their labor in augmenting the resources of those who ware endeavoring to subvert the Government, he could not have hesitated an instant in striking off every fetter, and calling on every man, woman and child held in bondage to assert their liberty. But, alas! though the slaves of the rebels have as stout muscles, though they are as competent to cultivate the soil, to wield the spade or to direct the musket at any other race under the sun, and though their very inherent docility is an additional guarantee to their owners against danger from them, as it would be against danger to the country from setting them free were they only treated with common humanity; yet they are black, they an degraded, they are ignorant, they are helpless they need guidance and aid from their superiors, and it is for this reason that a man of so good intentions as Abraham Lincoln still remains involved in the sophistries and fallacies of the monstrous doctrine of a right of property in man.
We must confess that, judging from a perusal of what Mr. Lincoln had previously said, we should not have expected him to such sentiments as those on which we are commenting, la hit debates with Mr. Douglas in 1858, when, as he said, no one ever dreamed of seeing him President of the United States, he frequently expressed his conviction of the natural right of every man to freedom. “I believe," says he in one speech, “each individual it naturally entitled to do as he pleases
<c02>
with himself and the fruit of his labor, so far as it in no wise interferes with any other man's rights." In another speech he said: “In relation to the principle, that all men are created equal, let it be as nearly reached as we can. If we cannot give freedom to every creature, let us do nothing that will impose slavery upon any other creature." Again, speaking of the negro, he said, "In the right to eat the bread without the leave of anybody else, which his own hand has earned, he is my equal, and the equal of Judge Douglas, and the equal of every living man." He defied any man to show that the negro was not included in the Declaration of Independence. He expressed his belief that "the right of property in a slave is not distinctly and expressly affirmed in the Constitution." Language was not used in it "suggesting that slavery existed, or that the black race were among us." And be said that “the sentiment which contemplates the institution of slavery as a wrong is the sentiment of the Republican party."
If the President had recalled the frame of mind in which he uttered these sentiments, he would never have so lamentably contradicted them as he has in his Message. His intellect would never have been so obscured as it now is, and we should have such action long before now as would have long since crushed the rebellion, pat an end to slavery, and restored peace to the country.
We say these things not in anger but in sorrow; not from a spirit of fault-finding, but from a conviction that our duty as journalists, and as to some extent the exponents of public opinion, require it. No public man in the country needs educating more than the President. Thank Heaven! he has shown that he is capable of learning. He has learned much; he has much to learn. But the most important lesson to be instilled into him is, that there is no such thing as a right of property in man, and that the free people of the North will never consent to any act, on the part of the Government, or to any modification of the Constitution, which in any way admits or recognizes that right.—New Bedford Republican Standard.
We presume everybody has read the President's Message, and accordingly judged it. There is not much to say about it any way. It is brief, sententious, written in plain, homely language, and therefore needs no interpretation. It provokes a smile in some, and makes others impatient to hear the President arguing the, case with those accursed secession wretches, just as though his logic would convince or his rhetoric move them. His talk about the impossibility of separation, while that very act is going on, reminds one of the "little story" of the lawyer who undertook to show the judge, after sentence bad been passed, that it was impossible for the court to have his client publicly whipped. "You just look out of the window," replied the judge, and you'll see that your client is taking his honest thirty-nine, in spite of the impossibility of which you speak." Old Abe should look out of the window occasionally to see what is going on outside.
The main feature of the Message, and which the President dwells upon at length, is his proposed amendment to the Constitution, which provides for the gradual abolishment of slavery by paying for the slaves, colonizing the blacks, and thus shortening the war and perpetuating peace. Such a proposition might be well enough in time of peace, but it only needs to be stated to show how utterly impracticable, not to say foolish, such a scheme is at present. We think no one understands this better than President Lincoln: and we judge this proposition to be merely a pad or cover, so to speak, for the dagger which he intends soon to send home to the vitals of slavery and secession. Any other interpretation, it seems to us, would evince a lack of that practical common sense which has hitherto been accorded to Mr. Lincoln.—Girard (Pa.) Union.

STATE OF THINGS IN ENGLAND.
LANCASHIRE SUFFERERS AND SLAVERY.
Day by day the suffering widens and deepens. And now the cold has come. The accounts, illustrated by cases and groups of cases, are most afflictive. This “England" is paying a fearful penalty for any complicity with slavery in the past, and is feeling scarcely less than any one State in the Union —even if not more—the consequences of the great crimes of the revolted slaveholders. I give, without comment, a statement which no reader of The Independent will see without emotion. Some benevolent persons, chiefly a lady who has been caring for the moral welfare of the hundreds of female attendants at the great Exhibition, gave them a parting entertainment, under the presidency of Lord Shaftesbury. In a report of the proceedings is this:—
"Lord Radstock gave some touching illustrations of a visit to the distressed factory districts, whence he had returned within the last twenty-four hours. He mentioned instances in which the stricken operatives manifested not only patience, but cheerfulness. 'He has never forsaken me, and never will,' said one in the depths of poverty. 'I was sure that our Father would never forsake us,' said a mother of a large family on receiving unexpected relief. The noble lord showed how remarkably these and similar facts evinced the power of religion—not, as philosophers would say, a 'sentiment,' but faith in the living Christ, the living God. One employer assembled his men, and explained to them the cause of their suffering, (the American war.) Their answer was. 'WE DON'T MIND SUFFERING A BIT, IF WE CAN ONLY SET TIIE POOR SLAVES FREE.'" (Great applause.)
BRITISH TORIES AND AMERICAN DEMOCRATS.
The London Freeman has a good parallel between the so-called " Democrats " of the United States and their English Sympathizers, who almost alone have been heard in the United States:—
"The Democrats are, by a strange inversion of language, become the Tories of America. Like the Tory party in every community, the old Constitution has a monstrous abuse in it, for which, therefore, they fight to the last. Like English Tories, the language of liberty and vested rights is on their lips, the retention of unjust privilege, gain and power in their hearts. Hence our Tory journals, including the Times, claim alliance with the Democrats, and repudiate Republicanism as more radical than Democracy. Our English Tories are right, and we wish them all joy of their friends. Southern slaveholders are confessedly the Tories of the old Union, and the Democrats who would jeopardize the Union rather than sweep away the intolerable abuse of slavery are the worthy representatives of our Toryism in the free States."
MR. GEORGE THOMPSON, THE ABOLITIONIST.
Two members of Parliament have been accidentally killed this week, in one case making a vacancy at Southampton. There are five candidates in the field, one of them Mr. George Thompson. It would be pleasant to see this veteran in Parliament again, but his election is not probable. An old Liberal member, who is connected with the railway system and public works of the town, stands; also a secretary of Lord Palmerston. The Prime Minister is very popular in the town, within some six miles of which is his beautiful estate of Broadlands. Then the Conservatives are very powerful, and have the Lord Mayor of London for candidate; and, to be private and confidential, the position of the courageous and able and laborious advocate of the United States, and of his Southampton friends, has been sadly weakened by the incessant American accusations and reproaches of the British. For example, every roan in Southampton knows that the Nashville was kept in durance there, and the most stinted supplies, even of oak timber, refused and impounded. Of course, Southern Americans and emissaries took care that all Southampton should know that Northern Americans insisted that she had been fully supplied with all the means and appliances of war, and were passionately reproachful therefor. Also, it is extensively believed in Southampton that the commander of the Tuscarora was prepared to violate British waters, and to rush into conflict within sight and sound of the abode of our widowed Queen on the Lie of Wight, bad be not been overruled. Nevertheless, there it George Thompson, and declaring that "his most earnest sympathies are with the anti-slavery policy of the Government of the United States."—English correspondence of the New York Independent.
 Mr. Thompson has declined entering into the political canvass for a Beat in Parliament; though no truer representative of the people could be sent to that body. We have copied on our last page, from UM London Morning Star, a sketch of a very forcible speech on the American War, recently delivered by Mr. Thompson, in the hall of the Corn Exchange at Maidstone, in reply to a purblind speech made by Mr. Buxton, M. P., at the dinner of the Maidstone Agricultural Association. It will be read with interest and pleasure. Mr. Thompson has proved himself to be nobly true to the cause of freedom here, and deserves a special testimonial from its friends.]—Ed. Lib.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1862.
CONCERNING THE LIBERATOR.
The war has not only crippled the circulation of the newspaper press generally, but it has produced such a scarcity in the materials for making printing paper,— owing chiefly to the failure of the cotton crop,—that the price per ream is now more than doubled, with a strong probability of a further upward tendency for some time to come. The consequence must be, universally, either a diminution in the size of the sheet or in the quantity of reading matter, or else a proportionate increase in the subscription price. Another alternative is, speedy extinction. In numerous cases, a stern necessity will doubtless compel the acceptance of the last, especially by weekly newspapers, as comparatively few of these have, hitherto, been able to preserve more than a precarious existence. It was the extra ounce that broke the camel's back: in this case, it is a ton's weight, instead of an ounce.
In common with all other publishers, we find ourselves in a very tight place. Our subscription list has been seriously reduced, by various causes, during the last year; and this, alone, is a source of pecuniary embarrassment. To attempt to go on at the same rates, with this loss, with the enormous advance in the price of printing paper, and with no immediate prospect of extending our circulation, would inevitably terminate the publication of the Liberator at an early day. On the other hand, to increase the terms to $300 per annum,—which, supposing our present list of subscribers should remain firm, would barely cover the additional cost of the white paper,—may cause such a further diminution in the number of our patrons as to hasten the same fatal result. The first course, if pursued, is certain suppression; the second furnishes the only chance of continuance. In these trying circumstances, we cannot hesitate which to adopt. The price of the Liberator, therefore, at the commencement of the new year, will be enhanced fifty cents per annum, until the market value of printing paper be restored to its normal condition. Other weekly papers throughout the country have been obliged to make a similar advance in their own case.
This is a simple statement of our situation, and our readers can easily cipher out the absolute necessity for this change in our terms.
We have no personal feeling whatever as to the continuance or suppression of the Liberator. Its publication was commenced without a subscriber, and it will give us no mortification should it end without one. Its whole career testifies to the fact, that its sole, paramount, absorbing object has been an uncompromising advocacy of the cause of immediate and universal emancipation, without regard to the extent of its circulation. On no consideration have we suppressed, diluted, or avoided the truth. We have never yet sought to win or to retain the patronage of any man. Whatever has been done, at any time, in support of the paper, has been done spontaneously, for its own estimated value as a fearless, impartial, independent anti-slavery journal, and not in response to any personal appeal from us; for we have made no such appeal. If it has accomplished its mission, let its publication cease: we ask no personal consideration whatever. Whoever would make any reformatory movement subservient to his own selfish ease, vain conspicuity, or pecuniary advantage, is undeserving of the slightest respect or confidence.
The Liberator has nearly completed its thirty-second volume. For thirty-two years, therefore, it has been sustained against such odds as no other journal was ever called to encounter. It is neither matter or surprise, nor to its discredit, that it has always had an inadequate subscription list. True, that list we might have largely extended, if we had resorted to any of the ordinary means to obtain subscribers; especially, if we had made personal applications in such cases. But we have never done so—perhaps from a morbid feeling of delicacy. Never at any one of the thousand anti-slavery meetings we have attended, or the lectures we have delivered, have we ever presented the Liberator as either deserving or needing any support; and we make this statement simply to lessen the exultation of the pro-slavery press at the limited circulation it has obtained—for, in the all abounding competition of the various multitudinous periodicals, unless systematic, strenuous and persistent efforts are made to attract attention and secure public patronage, it is extremely difficult to make any headway, even though it be a paper disposed to cater to public sentiment, instead of breasting the tide. Appearing as "a root out of dry ground," the Liberator, to this hour, continues to be "without form or comeliness," in the general estimation. Pioneering the way for the deliverance of a race, "peeled, meted out, and trodden under foot," and in the most emphatic manner" remembering them that are in bonds at bound with them," against all temptations to swerve or compromise, it is hated and proscribed all the more on that account. Compelled to arraign both Church and State at the tribunal of truth and justice for recreancy to the cause of the Oppressed, it has had to encounter the bitter animosity and fierce maledictions of the pro-slavery supporters of both. Censuring with more or less severity all parties and sects, on account of their slaveholding complicity, it has roused their mightiest efforts for its extinction. Erecting and advocating the highest standard of Christian principle, moral excellence, and benevolent regard for "the suffering and the dumb," it has been universally anathematized, caricatured, libelled, with infernal malignity—held up to public scorn as characterised by nothing but its "fanaticism," " infidelity," and "treasonable spirit"—and repudiated as a thoroughly infamous publication. The first newspaper in the world—certainly, the first to our knowledge and belief—to admit of thoroughly untrammelled discussion in its columns, and to volunteer the constant publication of the ablest and sharpest sentiments in opposition to its own, thus enabling its readers to hear all sides, it has received no countenance or commendation on the ground of this manly fairness, but been left to find its support among the few who have had the moral courage to enrol their names on its subscription list And how much moral courage has been required to do this, these well know.
We have the consciousness of having published a journal, which, for its advocacy of whatsoever is just, true, noble, pure, humane, and freedom-giving, in the midst of a fearfully demoralized and cruelly oppressive nation, may challenge the closest scrutiny of posterity. Of the tact and ability displayed in conducting it, we have nothing to say, except that we are confident that no subscriber has had any just cause to complain that be bas not bad the value of his money twice over, in the amount of instructive and valuable matter, and the number of admirable and eloquent speeches, furnished through its columns, from week to week, and year to year.
When the Liberator commenced, the whole land was in an oblivious state concerning the sufferings, crimes and horrors engendered by slavery. Consummate ignorance every where prevailed in relation to the nature of the system, the condition and number of its victims, its political supremacy over the country, its control of the various religious organizations, its widespread ramifications, its demoralizing tendencies, its utter incompatibility with democratic institutions, its inherent and irrepressible hostility to all the rights and interests pertaining to liberty. There was no agitation, no discussion of the subject in any quarter. Every thing has since been "made manifest in the right." The rod of Aaron has swallowed up all the rods of the Egyptian magicians-Abolitionism is now the question of questions, eliciting more inquiry, thought, feeling, debate, than all others combined, and moving onward with an earthquake tread. It is tropical heat exchanged for Arctic cold—the bright noon of day for midnight darkness—comparing things as they
<c04>
were and are. From this amazing change in public sentiment, the Liberator has derived no benefit whatever. Other journals have carefully consulted this change, and given the milk needed for new-born babes; so that more is published every day on the subject of slavery, pro and con, by the newspaper press, than used to be	 in the	 course of years. That others have entered into our labors, and reaped the advantage thereof, we do not regret: it has followed in the nature of things, and is what we gladly looked for from the beginning. But it explains why our circulation remains unaided by the cheering revolution which has taken place. The Liberator most lead" the forlorn hope" to the end, and, consequently, be proscribed by whatever is weak and time-serving until slavery is utterly abolished, or until the means for the continuance of the paper cannot be found.
Death has made serious ravages among our earliest subscribers, especially within the last two or three years; but we still retain on our subscription list the names of a number of cherished friends, in different parts of the country, whose untiring cooperation and unwavering confidence call for the warmest expression of our gratitude. Such will continue to stand by us, while we remain faithful to the cause of the enslaved as in the past.
We shall be sorry to lose any one who really reads the Liberator with interest, deriving nourishment and strength therefrom, on account of its enhanced terms; but we shall be still more sorry to retain any one on our list, through any delicacy on his part in regard to discontinuing his subscription. It would be unreasonable to expect any one to receive the paper, if the altered price makes it a pecuniary burden in his case. But we trust such cases will be found rare, and I hat there will be a general and cheerful acquiescence on the part of the great body of our subscribers in the proposed change.

FRATERNITY LECTURE.
The eleventh lecture of the Fraternity course, entitled "Education of the Citizen," was delivered on Tuesday evening by Henry Ward Beecher, and a very large audience gave it enthusiastic applause.
Mr. Beecher said that the great contest in which this nation is now engaged is not merely, nor mainly, a conflict of passions. The diffusion of intelligence and education to the extent here enjoyed is incompatible with the long continuance of dangerous excitements prompted by mere feeling. Ideas are more quarrelsome than passions, and longer-lived. An idea with a conscience behind it will fight all round the world and all through time; and it will fight the more obstinately and vigorously when it carries with it the sentiments and the affections.
Our nation is prosperous beyond precedent, and is in no small degree civilized, Christian and free. Yet a furious civil war is raging. This springs not, as some fools suppose, from the excitement of passions, but from the conflict of ideas. An idea is here contending, deep as the heart of Jesus, one which has been resisting its opposites ever since he died on Calvary. Two radical philosophies, giving opposite views of man, his nature and his rights, and therefore of the nature and the rights of society, of political economy, morals and religion, are here contending for sovereignty. The question is not whether North or South shall govern, but whether the system of ideas respecting man, society and government which prevails at the North or at the South, shall hold permanent sway.
General education is good, but it is not sufficient. It is only a foundation for special education. We must have an education of the citizen, and of the American citizen. As a man may be well versed in general knowledge without being a good lawyer, physician or minister, so he may be accomplished in many departments without being a good citizen. A citizen must be educated in reference to his own government, and to the principles and ideas on which it is founded. Under an absolute government, the citizen has only to obey. Under a republic, he must be a thinking, active, working being. He has not only to obey the laws, but to make them. He must make opinions, laws, legislators, magistrates; and when these prove unsatisfactory, he must make them over again.
The proper education of the citizen comprises three elements; a knowledge of the radical ideas on which the American government is founded—of the structure and administration of the government—and of the particular duties of the citizen.
There are only two ideas of government; the old is, submission to the control of another—the new is, self-government. The former, one governing all; the latter, all governing all. Some governments (like the English) consist of a mixture of these two ideas. In these cases, the democratic and aristocratic elements must contend, until one gains the victory.
The American government sprang from certain great philosophical principles. It existed first in philosophic, speculative ideas. Radicalism is now used as a term of reproach, but we are the offspring of the most radical people the world ever saw.
There are two kinds of radicalism. One goes for the upbuilding of material welfare, and this the world calls enterprise. The other is based upon the moral sentiment. John the Baptist was a radical, Herod was a conservative. The Great Master was the greatest radical of his time, and of all times. The world rejected Him for this reason. The apostles were radicals, and therefore outcasts. In our day, those men are stigmatized as radicals who insist on the enforcement of the natural rights of men, especially liberty. Radicalism has relation to principles, not merely measures. It calls for absolute truth, justice, right, freedom. And it urges us, even where we cannot get the best, to come as near it as we can. Our leading American ideas are the fruit of 300 years of radicalism in Germany, Holland, Puritan England, and New England.
Past governments, formed on the old principle, have been God's nuisances. The world has suffered a thousand times more from misgovernment than from any anarchy that could possibly have taken its place.
It is ideas that are fighting now on the Rappahannock. Every cannon fired from the Southern side says man is the slave of man. Every one fired from the Northern side says man has inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness
Political duties should be studied, insisted on, and preached in the pulpit, as religious duties. Every man and every woman should understand and practise them. Men degenerate by separation from women. In the instincts and the sentiments, women are wiser and better than men; we shall never see politics purified until women take equal share in them with men, at the polls and elsewhere.
Our first duty now is the armed overthrow of the rebellion. It must be done by arms. The next duty will be to homogenize the nation, making every Southern State as free as New England. We mutt have now either emancipation and unity, or secession and endless quarrels and disorders.
I regret that space is wanting for a complete report of a very excellent lecture.
In consequence of the absence of Rev. J. M. Manning, who was to have given the next lecture, G. W. Curtis, Esq., of New York, will speak before the Fraternity next Tuesday evening.—c. k. w.
Joseph P. COUTHOUY, A. V. Lieut Commanding, U. S. N., late commanding the U.S. barque Kingfisher, has been ordered to report to Admiral Paulding at New York, for the command of U. S. steamer Columbia. Lieut. Couthouy's course, while in command of the Kingfisher, showed admirable sagacity, energy and saving, and we confidently expect that in his new command he will add largely to his well earned reputation.—Bottom Transcript
 In the next Liberator, we shall give some extracts from the log book of this humane and meritorious officer, while commander of the Kingfisher on the Florid cast?, in relation to the rescue and protection of a number of fugitive slaves.
<c05>
THE TIME IS AT HAND.
President Lincoln has made several movements unfavorable to slavery. I say unfavorable instead of hostile, because those movements have had no such energy or directness as to warrant the latter adjective. Several things, however, unfavorable to slavery, he has actually done. Some ascribe this to choke, others to stress of circumstances. But it is a curious and significant fact that whatever of this sort has been done, has been done in such a manner as not immediately to help us in regard to the existing war. This fact becomes very remarkable when we consider that the President is not only our civil ruler, but officially Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy.
The first of these movements occurred in his Message to Congress in March, 1862, in which he offered national aid to all States, loyal or disloyal, which would commence a "gradual abolishment of slavery." This offer was accompanied by the intimation that, in case of its rejection, stronger measures would be taken, and measures still less satisfactory to the slaveholders.
If Mr. Lincoln expected either to bribe the rebels by lib pecuniary offer, or to frighten them by his threat, he signally failed. As fur as they were concerned, the Message had no result whatever. To us, however, it showed two things; a recognition by the President, first, that slavery was hostile to the welfare of the country, and next, that he felt himself author fixed to act against it in case of need, irrespective of the consent of slaveholders, loyal or disloyal.
The second movement was the Proclamation of September 22d, declaring immediate freedom to slaves of rebels who should be within, or come within, the tines of the Federal armies, and prospective emancipation (in 1863) to the slaves of all who should then be officially announced as still in rebellion.
If this Proclamation were another attempt to frighten the enemy, this also was a thorough failure. It had the good effect of immediately freeing a certain small proportion of the slaves, and it may be made to operate very effectively against the rebels after the advent of 1863, if the President shall choose so to use it. But the remarkable and peculiar circumstance 1s that he did not choose to use this power of emancipation, as he might have done, for the effective present aid of the Federal armies. He might speedily have doubled his own forces by the use of black volunteers, at the same time diminishing enormously the resources of the enemy; and besides this, he might immediately have diminished the enemies' armies at Richmond by one-half, withdrawing at least that proportion (for the defence of their peculiar institution) to their respective States. If the Proclamation of freedom had been made immediate throughout the rebel Suites, we might have taken Richmond in one fortnight, destroyed, instead of merely postponing, the danger of foreign intervention, and been now far advanced towards the entire suppression of the rebellion. The President, for some reason, did not choose that his policy on the subject of slavery should effectively cooperate with his army and navy.
The third movement of Mr. Lincoln was his late Message, presented at the assembling of the Congress now in session. This document, even while assuming that the Proclamation is to be carried out, inaugurates a movement more moderate, more tolerant in regard to slavery, and requiring far more time for its operation, than either of the preceding ones; agreeing with those, however, in the remarkable and peculiar circumstance that its operation does not in the slightest degree aid the operations of the army and navy. Possessing, and conscious of possessing, the power legitimately to assail and overthrow slavery as a public nuisance, he chooses not (at present) to use this power, but rather to go on proposing terms of accommodation to armed rebels.
Has he been acting in this manner merely to obtain the credit, at home and abroad, of exemplary moderation? We shall soon see. The 1st of January, if it does nothing else, will give us light in regard to our President's character, his capacity for managing a great crisis, his competence for acting as Commander-in-Chief, his sufficiency for controlling the destinies of a nation. If then he shall strike vigorously at slavery, (even in the rebel States only,) much of his past delinquency may be pardoned. If promptly, on the 1st of January, he shall designate by Proclamation the States and parts of States in rebellion— declare the slaves in those regions thenceforth and forever free—address those slaves with a formal recognition of their freedom, and an invitation to cooperate with the Federal armies—and issue to the commanders of those armies imperative injunctions to avail themselves of this change a promptly and thoroughly as possible, helping the slaves and using their help for the subjugation of the rebels and the restoration of the Federal authority—then, indeed, we may begin to make progress in this war. If, on the other hand, the temporizing policy shall stilt be continued, and the last Message shall be allowed to supersede the Proclamation, then our hope, as far as Abraham Lincoln is concerned, will have finally perished. If salvation be yet appointed for this nation, it must come through some other hand.—C. K. W.
ESSEX COUNTY MEETING. It will be seen by the notice in another column, that Mr. Weld, now in this State for a short time, will attend the quarterly meeting of the Essex County A. S. Society, next Sunday, at Danvers. This announcement would alone secure a crowded attendance, did the people but know that he is among the most accomplished scholars, eloquent and impressive orators, and noblest men in every respect, of this or any other period. Withdrawn from the field of public labor for a quarter of a century, by an almost entire prostration of the vocal organs, he has yet lost very little of the fire of his youth, and certainly none of his interest in or knowledge of the demands of every true man. at a time like this, lie seems truly "one of the old prophets, risen again from the dead.” 
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW for October, 1862, presents the following table of contents:—1. Solar Chemistry. 2. The Herculanean Papyra. 3. The Mussulmans in Sicily. 4. The Supernatural, o. The English in the Eastern Seas. 6. The Legend of St. Swithun. 7. Mrs. Oliphant's Life of Edward Irving. 8. The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus. 9. Hops at Home and Abroad. 10. Prince Eugene of Savoy. 11. The American Revolution.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY REVIEW, for October, contains the following papers:—1. Les Miserables 2. The Platonic Dialogues. 8. Modem Political Memoirs. 4. Belgium. 5. The Waterloo of Thiers and Victor Hugo. 6. Aids to Faith. 7. China—The Taeping Rebellion. 8. The Confederate Struggle and Recognition.
Both the articles in these Reviews on the American War and the Southern Confederacy are strongly in sympathy with the Rebels, and, consequently, hostile to the American Government.
Both these Reviews are published by Leonard Scott & Co., 79 Fulton Street, New York, and are for sale by A. Williams & Co., Crosby & Nichols, and Redding & Co., Boston. Price 88 a year, each.
CHANGE OF TERMS. In consequence of the extraordinary rise in the price of printing paper, the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society have deemed it indispensable to fix the term of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, the organ of the Society, at $2,50 (instead of $2,00 as heretofore) for the ensuing year.
THE BEAUFORT CONTRABANDS. Last week, we published a very interesting letter from a highly accomplished young colored lady, Miss. CHARLOTTE L. FORTEN, of Philadelphia, who is engaged in teaching the contrabands at Beaufort. This week we print another letter from her, which is creditable equally to her head and heart. We solicit the continuance of similar favors, believing that all our readers will appreciate them as highly as we do.
<c06>
THE TWENTY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY 
In view of the colossal magnitude of the southern rebellion, on the one hand, and of the corresponding efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the otter, the Managers of the National ANTI-SLAVERY Subscriptions Anniversary long deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUL APPEAL
to this late period-not knowing what events might occur, in the mean time, to render a modification or suspension of their established plan of action 
desirable, and wishing to be guided by highest wisdom in such a momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitations the hand of God in righteous judgment for our great national transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land: believing that the proclamation of president Lincoln, emancipating forever all slaves held in states found in rebellion on the first day of January 1862, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that uncertainties of civil war are too great, and expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement vigilance, activity, zeal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so <illegible> consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully “bearing the cross and despising the shame." With, no person al or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain,-animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism,—it is not for such to commit their sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction even by the most cheering signs of the times, regard their special mission as accomplished or to abandon their organized efforts and efficient instrumentalities which have hitherto been crowned with such animating results. Their work is, by Divine help the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in fetters, and they we able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be “ the <illegible> “ to the end, leading the way, an taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birth right and possession of every inhabitant of our land form sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti Slavery cause has grove form infantile weakness to manly strength – from universal proscription to respectful public consideration-from an apostolic number of  adherents to a multitudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation proclamation of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will include nearly three fourths of the entire slave population Granted, that the rebels themselves. despairing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus secure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal with stern realities, and must not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that as no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recognized and protected, under the old constitutional guaranties, in all the so-called loyal slave States, and possibly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of state sovereignty, after its subjugation and the withdrawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro-slavery sentiment exists through out the North, deadly hostile to every scheme of emancipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostracizing all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to get the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and reconstruct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis. 
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there must be no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be protracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fiercely contested to the end by all that is hostile to impartial liberty. North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation  of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SCBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held, as usual, in Boston the last week in January, 1863; and to that annual gathering they cordially and urgently invite all who abhor treason, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on as enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness on and prosperity of our now distracted fearfully guilty, but we trust to be regenerated county-bringing with them (or sending, if they are not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations as their means will allow, causing “ the riches of their liberality to abound " even in "the abundance of their poverty,"_ assured that the proceeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of slavery by voice and pen, through the press and by the lecturing agent—to quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppression, and, consequently, to the reign of universal justice and good will. It should be remembered that the pecuniary resource of the Society is largely depend ant upon the instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be rendered in the manner already indicated.
To those every where who have so long and so generously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trusting may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, by reason of the speedy and complete consummation of our labors and aspirations..
Lydia Maria Child, Sarah H Southwick, 
Mary may,   Sarah p. Remond, 
Lydia D. Parker   Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring,  Abby H. Stephenson
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Araim, 
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene,  Sarah Cowing, 
Sarah Blake Shaw,  Abby Kelley Foster, 
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mattie Griffith,  Mary Elizabeth Satgent 
Mary Jackson,  Sarah C Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith  Abby Francis 
Carline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman Smrah,,
Eizabeth Gay,  Georgina Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farman
It should be remembered by the friends and patrons of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY, as a stimulus to unwonted liberality on their part, that, hitherto, a considerable portion of its proceeds has been as generously as uniformly contributed by our trans-atlantic coadjutors; but that little or nothing is expected from that source, the present season, in consequence of the general obfuscation of mind which so strangely prevails abroad, in regard to the true nature of the conflict which is now shaking this republic to its centre. No special appeal, under such circumstances, can with propriety be made in that direction. Hence, the home effort must be in a more earnest sprit than ever.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
INTERESTING LETTER FROM MISS CHARLOTTE L. FORTEN.
Sr. HELENA’S ISLAND, BRAUFORT, S. C. Nov. 27, 1862.
Dear MR. GARRISON-I shall commence this letter in very nearly the same words used by one of your correspondents some weeks since-“To-day, for the first time since leaving home, I have been allowed the privilege of reading the Liberator.” But I must claim that, in my case, the privilege must be a greater one than in his, for he was only in New York, while I am in South Carolina. However, we shall not be at all likely to dispute about it. I cannot tell you what a pleasure it is to see this paper. It is of an old date-Oct. 31st-but it is not the less welcome for that. It is pleasant to look upon, and familiar as the face of an old friend, here in this strange, southern land. And is it not a significant fact, that one may now sit in safety here, in the rebellious little Palmetto State, and read the Liberator, and display it to one’s friends, rejoicing over it, in the fullness of one’s heart, as a very great treasure? It is fitting that we should give it-the pioneer paper in the cause of human rights-a hearty welcome to the land where, until so recently, those rights have been most barbarously trampled upon. We do not forget that it is, in fact, directly traceable to the exertions of the editors of this paper, and those who have labored so faithfully with him, that Northern people now occupy in safety the “South Carolina shore; that freedom now blesses it; that it is, for the first time, a place worth living in.
 Perhaps it may interest you to know how we have spent this day-Thanks giving Day-here, in the sunny South. It has been truly a “rare” day-a day worthy of October. Cool, delicious air, golden, gladdening sunlight, deep-blue sky, with soft white clouds floating over it. Had we no other causes, the glory and beauty of the day alone would make it a day to give thanks for. But we have other causes, great and glorious, that unite to make this peculiarly a day of thanksgiving and praise. You have, doubtless, ere this, read General Saxton’s noble Proclamation(1) for Thanksgiving to the people of Port Royal. I know that it will be fully appreciated by you. For myself, I thanked God with all my heart when I heard it read. I thanked Him for giving to the freed people of these islands a governor like General Saxton-a man so thoroughly good and true, so nobly and earnestly devoted to their interests. I think he is loved and appreciated as he ought to be by them.
 In accordance with his Proclamation, this was observed as “a day of thanksgiving and praise.” An order had been issued, that the Superintendent of each plantation should have an animal killed, that the people might, to-day, eat fresh meat, which is a great luxury of them,-and, indeed, to all of us here. This morning, a large number, superintendents, teachers, and many of the freed people, assembled in the Baptist church. Gen. Saxton, and his brother, Captain Saxton, were present. The church was crowded, and there were many outside, at the doors and windows, who could not get in. It was a sight that I shall not soon forget-that crowd of eager, happy black faces, from which the shadow of slavery had passed forever. “FOREVER FREE! FOREVER FREE!” All the time those magical words were singing themselves in my soul, and never in my life before have I felt so deeply and sincerely grateful to God. It was a moment of exultation, such as comes but seldom in one’s life, that in which I sat among the people assembled on this lovely day to thank God for the most blessed and glorious of all gifts.
 The singing was, as usual, very beautiful. These people have really a great deal of musical talent. It is impossible to give you an idea of many of their songs and hymns. They are so wild, so strange, and yet so invariably harmonious and sweet, they must be heard to be appreciated. And the people accompany them with a peculiar swaying motion of the body, which seems to make the singing all the more effective. There is one of their hymns-“Roll, Jordan, roll,” that I never listen to without seeming to hear, almost to fed, the rolling of waters. There is a great rolling wave of sound through it all.
The singing, to-day, was followed by an appropriate prayer and sermon, by the Rev. Mr. Phillips, who is an excellent New England man, and a minister much liked by the people. After the sermon, General Saxton made a short but very spirited speech, urging the young men of the island to enlist in the colored regiment now forming at “Beaufort under Col. T. W. Higginson. That was the first intimation I had had of Mr. Higginson being down here. I am greatly rejoiced thereat. He seems to me, of all fighting men, the one best fitted to command a regiment of blacks. The mention of his name recalled most vividly the happy days passed last summer in good old Massachusetts, when, day after day in the streets of Worcester, we used to see the indefatigable Cap. Higginson drilling his white company. I never saw him,-so full of life and energy, so thoroughly enjoying his work,-without thinking what a splendid general he would make. And that, too, may come about. Ger. Saxton to-day expressed the hope of seeing him one day commander of an army of black men. Gen. Saxton told the people, who listened with an eager attention, how bravely Mr. Higginson had stood by the side of Anthony Burns in the old, dark days, even suffering imprisonment for his sake; and assured them that, under the leadership of such a man, they need fear no injustice. He would see to it that they were not wronged in any way. Then he told them the story of Robert Small, and added, “Yesterday, Robert Small came to see me. I asked him how he was getting on in the store which he was keeping for the freed people. He said he was doing very well-was making fifty dollars a week, sometimes. But, said he, ‘General, I’m going to stop keeping store-I’m going to enlist.’ What, said I, are you going to enlist, when you can make fifty dollars a week keeping store? ‘Yes, sir,’ he added. ‘I’m going to enlist as a private in the black regiment. How can I expect to keep my freedom unless I fight for it? Suppose the Secesh should come back here, what good would my fifty dollars do me then? Yes, sir, I should enlist if I were making a thousand dollars a week.’” The General then told him what a victory the black soldiers had lately won on the Georgia coast, and how great a good they had done for their race in winning it. They have proved to their enemies that the black man can and will fight for his freedom.
The General’s speech was a stirring one, and I trust it will prove very effective. There has been among some of the men great distrust about joining the regiment, the soldiers were formerly so unjustly treated by the government. But they trust General Saxton, and his assurances will, doubtless, have much effect. Many of the able-bodied men from these islands have already joined the regiment.
General Saxton was followed by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, who spoke for a few moments very beautifully and earnestly. She told them the story of the people of Santa Cruz, how they had risen and conquered their masters, and declared themselves freemen, and nobody dared to oppose them; and how, a short time afterward, the Danish Governor rode into the marketplace, and proclaimed freedom to all the people of the Danish Islands. Then she made a beautiful appeal to the mothers, and urged them not to keep back their sons, fearing that they might be killed, but to send them as she had done hers, willingly and gladly to fight for liberty.
It was something very novel and strange to them, I suppose, to hear a woman speak in public, but they listened very attentively, and seemed much moved by what she said. Gen. Saxton made a few more remarks; and then the people sang, “Marching Along,” with great spirit.
After church, there was a wedding. That is a ceremony that is performed here, among the freed people, nearly every Sunday. Last Sunday, there were six couples married. Some of the bridal costumes are, of course, very unique and comical, but the principal
-
(1) We shall publish this note-worthy Proclamation in our next number.-[Ed. Lib.
<c02>
actors are happily quite unconscious of it, and look to very proud and happy white enjoying this, one of the many privileges that freedom has bestowed upon them, that it is very pleasant to se them.
I must tell you that the little Baptist church is beautifully situated in a grove of live oaks. Looking through the windows, on every aide one sees these singularly beautiful trees. They are evergreen: the leaf is a rich, dark, glossy green, much smaller than our oak leaf; and from every branch hangs a most exquisite and graceful drapery of gray moss. There pendants are sometimes three or four feet in length. This fantastic moss suggests many different similes— witches' hair, patriarchal beards, and, walking through a grove of these trees just at sunset, a few evenings ago, where the branches formed a perfect ceiling overhead, these wonderful mosses recalled the stalactites which I saw once in a fine panorama of the Mammoth Cave. The hut rays of the sun lighting them up converted them into almost perfect stalactites, as they appeared in the illuminated picture; and if these lacked the sparkling crystals of the rock, they made up for the loss by their exquisite and airy grace.
A mile from the Baptist church, in another beautiful grove of live oaks, is the Episcopal church, in which the aristocracy of the island used to worship. It is much smaller than the other, but possesses an organ, which, unlike the other, musical instruments in this region, is not hopelessly out of order. The building is not used as a place of worship now, as it is much too small.
Our school is kept in the Baptist church. There are two ladies teaching in it, beside myself. They are earned workers, and hare done and are constantly, doing a great deal for the people here, old and young, One of them, Miss T., is physician as well as teacher. She has a very extensive medical practice, and carries about with her everywhere her box of homoeopathic medicines. The people welcome her as a ministering angel to their lowly cabins. Our school averages between eighty and ninety pupils, and later in the season we shall probably have more. It is great very pleasant to see how bright, how eager to learn many of the children are. Some of them make wonderful improvement in a short time. It is a great happiness, a great privilege to be allowed to teach them. Every day I enjoy it more and more.
I cannot describe to you their singing. To me it seems wonderfully beautiful. We have just taught them the John Brown Song. I wish you could hear them ring it; it does one's soul good. How often I wish their old "secesh" masters, powerless to harm them, could hear their former chattels singing the praises of the brave old man who died for their sake! We are going to teach them "The Song of the Negro Boatmen" soon.
Although I have been here more than a month, it is at times almost impossible for me to realize that I am in South Carolina, the very last place in which, a year ago, I should have thought it desirable or possible for me to live. Sometimes it scents all like a strange wild dream. But when I see the people at work in the cotton fields, and visit their "quarters," and listen to their strange songs, it becomes more real to me. A month hence, I expect to feel quite at home here, in the very heart of Rebeldom.
I am staying at the same house in which a store is kept for the freed people by a Quaker gentleman sent here by the Philadelphia Commission. One has an excellent opportunity here for observing the negroes. I am particularly pleased with their manners. They are always perfectly courteous to each other, as well as to us. Theirs is a natural and graceful courtesy, which would put to shame many who despise them as an inferior people. As far as I have observed, they seem to me honest, industrious, and anxious to improve in every way. This is wonderful, considering the crushing and degrading system to which they have been subjected. They certainly are not the stupid, degraded people that many at the North believe them to be.
The plantation on which we live was owned by a man whom all the people unite in calling a "hard master." And his wife, it is said, was even more cruel than himself. When the negroes were ill, their scanty allowance of food was entirely withheld from! them; and even after they had begun to recover, they were kept half-starved for some time—as a punishment for daring to be ill, I suppose. The whip was used freely. The people were severely whipped for the slightest offences, real or only suspected. If a fowl or any thing else on the plantation was missed, and the thief could not be discovered, every slave would receive a number of lashes. They were wretchedly clothed. One poor woman had her feet and limbs so badly frozen from exposure, that she was obliged to have both legs amputated above the knee. She is living here now, and is one of the best women on the place.
From such a life as these poor people led—poorly clothed, poorly fed, worked hard, and cruelly beaten—yon can imagine what a blessed change for them is the life they lead now. They are constantly rejoicing over it. Their hearts are overflowing with gratitude to the "Yankees," for coming here, and giving them their freedom. One very old man,—who came into the store this morning, dressed in a very original suit, made entirely of carpeting,—expressed to Mr. H. his delight at the new state of things:—" Don't have me feelin’s hurt now, massa. Used to have me feelin's hurt all de time; but don't hab 'em hurt now, no more." And, truly, we rejoiced with the old man that he, and many like him, who have suffered so long, no longer have their "feelin's hurt," as in the old time.
 I enjoy hearing two of our men—Harry and Cupid (Cupids and Venuses, by the way, are very plentiful bore)—rejoice over the flight of the Secesh at the "gun shoot." They call the taking of Bay Point, which is opposite Hilton Head, the "gun shoot." It was immediately after this, before the Federal troops reached Beaufort, that these islands were deserted in "hot haste" by the brave Southerners. Shortly afterward, a few of them had the temerity to return, and try to induce the negroes to go off with them. Harry, who is a man of uncommon shrewdness and intelligence, says that his master told them that the Yankees would certainly shoot every one of them when they came. "Berry well, massa," said he, " if I go wid you, I be good as dead; so if I got to dead, I might as well dead one way as anoder. So I b'lief I'll stay, and wait for de Yankees." He says that he knew all the while there was no truth in what his master said. Nevertheless, the master thought that some of the people could be induced to go with him. So be very coolly ordered them to remove all the furniture from the house to an island opposite, and then go thither themselves. "So," as Cupid says, " dey could get us all togeder in a heap, and just sweep us right off into de boat, and take us off. And den dey tell me dat I could jus' row my wife, Patience, and de chilen, down to a certain pint, and den I could come back myself, if I choose. As if I was gwine to be sich a goat!" adds Cupid, with a look and gesture of ineffable contempt. The end of the story is, that the people, instead of obeying the injunctions of their very kind and considerate master, left the place and secreted themselves, so that when he and his friends returned, not a single one of those negroes who " didn't want their freedom " could be found to accompany them into slavery! And so they were obliged to return, disappointed, but, it is to be hoped, wiser men.
As I bring this letter to a dose, my thoughts revert to New England—to Massachusetts, which I believe I am in the habit of considering as all New England. And I recal with pleasure the many happy Thanksgiving Days passed there. But it has been reserved for me to spend here, in South Carolina, the happiest, the most jubilant Thanksgiving Day of my life. We hear of cold weather and heavy snow storms up in the North land; but here roses and oleanders are blooming oat of doors, figs are ripening, the sunlight is warm and bright, and over all shines gloriously the blessed light of freedom, freedom forevermore.
 I am, dear friend, very truly yours, C.L.F.
<c03>
LETTER FROM HENRY O. WRIGHT.
SOUTH HARTWICH, (N. Y.) Nov.27,1862.
DEAR GARRISON-I have lectured twice in this place, South Hartwich. Am to lecture this evening in the Baptist church in Jacksonville; to-morrow evening in the Presbyterian church in Laurens; Saturday evening in Lisbon; Sunday next in the Baptist church in Hartwich village. Thus is my time to be occupied till Christmas. Then I shall leave this region, and go on my way to Boston, to rest from my labors a few weeks. My lectures relate chiefly to the Proclamation and its bearing on the destiny of the American Republic and the cause of Free Labor and Free Institutions in all nations. Thousands over ail this region voted for Seymour and slavery solely to put down Abolition. I raised quite a tempest in one place, the other evening, by telling them that every one of them was a member of an Abolition Society. Some swore, and raved, and protested. "Are you citizens of New York?" I asked. "Yes," all said," of the proud old Democratic Empire State!" "Very well,” I said, "I thought you were, and therefore members of an Abolition Society." "How do you make that out," said one. "I'd have you to know I am no Abolitionist, nor a member of an Abolition Society." "Poor fellow!" I said, "you are in a bad fix, for the proud Empire State is merely an Abolition Society so far as negro slavery in its own borders is concerned. The State, as a Stale, after a long discussion of the subject of Abolition, finally voted to abolish slavery wherever it had the power; and men are now living in this State who then lived and labored hard to make, the EMPIRE STATE A PRACTICAL ABOLITION SOCIETY. SO of Pennsylvania; as a State, it is a practical Abolition Society. So of New Jersey, and all the New England States. All I ask of the Federal Government—the nation—the republic—is, to abolish slavery wherever it hat the power to do so—and thus let the nation imitate New York State, and become a practical Abolition Society. This is the simple object of the Proclamation, to convert the National Government into au Abolition Society, like New York; so that every citizen of the United States may have the honor and the satisfaction of being a member of a great National Abolition Society."
The Democratic allies of slavery and rebellion leave no effort untried to nourish and perpetuate the deep, malignant hatred of Abolition. Their great argument against the Administration and the war, on the part of the North, is, that it is a war for Abolition. They, in this region, reiterate the cry of the South, that to support the Constitution and the Union is to be an Abolitionist. May the South and their Northern allies in treason and slave-breeding urge this till every man in the North is made to believe, that to support the Union and the Constitution is to support Abolition! For this the Harpers, Wadsworth, Tremain, Dickinson, and tens of thousands of others are denounced as Abolitionists. Heaven grant that they may all show themselves worthy the high honor which the kidnappers and their Northern allies would force upon them! for Abolition is to-day the great test of character in this nation—as Christ was in the days of Paul. The NEGRO, and him crucified by kidnappers and their Democratic allies, is to-day what CHRIST and him crucified by Pontius Pilate and the High Priests was. I esteem it a higher honor to be called an Abolitionist, at this day, than to be called a Christian; nobler privilege to be the Abolition friend of the enslaved Negro, than the friend of what this nation calls Christ.
Yours. HENRY C. WRIGHT.

PARSON BR0WNL0W.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The following was recently forwarded to a paper that bolstered Brownlow by reporting, without censure, his brutal, murderous Opera House instigation against Abolitionists; and then recently some severe paragraphs, in which the poor malignant creature convicts himself, after previously denying in advance what he was about to confess. I have waited a reasonable length of time, and come to the conclusion that no place, in any political or religious publication, is to be allowed for the exposure of this " pro-slavery " priest and propagandist, who has had so much Northern help to poison and prostitute the North. This paper, doing such demoralizing work in this way, is the least objectionable of any within ray knowledge, having so wide a circulation, and published in the Northwest. What, then, is to become of a people under the power of a press so sold out and devoted to corruption—so leagued with religious and political conspirators against human enlargement?
ORSON S. MURRAY.
For the Cincinnati Daily Gazette.
"ABOLITIONISTS NOT THE CAUSE OF THE REBELLION."
Under this head, in the Gazette for November 26, I have noticed some paragraphs from Parson Brownlow. In these paragraphs he says:
"I have canvassed every Eastern and most of the Northwestern States for the last eight months, and while I have changed no opinion, I must say that the North never contemplated interfering with Southern institutions."
Further he says:
"This rebellion is not the work of Abolitionists, but of God-forsaken Southern demagogues."
And further still:
"I have always been a pro-slavery man, and opposed to Abolitionism, but must say that this rebellion is nut the work of Abolitionists, but of a corrupt South."
Here we have the distinct statements that he "has always been a pro-slavery man "—that "this rebellion is not the work of Abolitionists "—and that he "has changed no opinion."
Now, if there be any sincerity in him, it is to be supposed that his present utterance is a truthful indication of his present opinions. What, then, are we to think of his former expression, while in the Opera House at Cincinnati, when he wanted the "Abolitionists hung, their bodies buried in a ditch, and their souls sent to hell"? If he does not now mistake himself—if his present "opinion" is, that "this rebellion is not the work of Abolitionists"—and if he has "changed no opinion," does he not compel us to take an uncharitable view of his former expression towards Abolitionists?
The question arises to know what the opinions of a man arc worth, thus expressing himself? If he has changed his opinions of Abolitionists, it would have been the part of an honest man not to have said he “has changed no opinion” in connection with stating such opposite opinions of them.
Most certainly, Abolitionists have a right to take him on his present expression, after his better opportunity for acquaintance with them, and believe his sincere conviction to be, that “this rebellion is not the work of Abolitionists, but (is the work) of a corrupt south.” My own opinion is, that it is the work of a corrupt pro-slavery North, as well as corrupt proslavery institution, which from the corrupting Southern institution, which from its nature corrupts all connected with it, South and North, West and East.
One word more. He has "always been a pro-slavery man "—of course is such now. Now, what is this “ “rebellion," that he is condemning in such terms, but " pro-slavery " gone to seed?
ICONOCLAST.
Warren County, (O.) Dec 2, 1862.
[This signature was not used because of any peculiar appropriateness in this connection, bat because it is one by which I have sometimes been recognized in the region.) O. S. M.
 Mr. Geo. Francis Train has written to ft Society of "Cogers" (whatever that may mean) in London, that he (the said George Francis) could nave succeeded to the Senatorship, only he isn't old enough! So, yon see, Stunner's triumph is at last accounted for!
<c04>
ANDREW ROBESON, ESQ. 
The sudden death of this gentleman, a day or two since, (says the Boston Transcript,) was a sad event, not to him, who was ripe and ready for his departure, but to numerous friends and kindred. He was an honored citizen of New Bedford, but established the Print Works, that bore his name, in Fall River. The News of that city thus truly speaks:—
"The business became prosperous, and yielded him a rich reward for his perseverance. But riches had no charm for him beyond their utility. He acquired wealth for the purposes of use and benevolence. With (a heart open to every just and generous impulse, he did not merely relieve pressing instances of suffering and want, bat he took a higher view of humanity, and sought to remove the causes of suffering and wrong by aiding the oppressed and instructing the needy and ignorant. He was a firm and liberal friend of the slave and the anti-slavery cause, and supported liberty wherever found, arid opposed oppression in all its forms.
At the time he commenced business in Fall River, it had been the almost universal custom of manufacturers to pay their operatives in what is called ‘store pay;' and to such an extent had this been carried, that the exception had become so rare as to prove the general truth of the rule. Mr. Robeson boldly broke in upon the oppressive custom. He paid his operatives in cash, and that, too, monthly. The effect was electrical. The laborer became a man. On the 10th of every month he received wages worthy of his hire in cash. He could buy his goods and supply his wants wherever he chose, and felt at once, for himself and family, relieved from that state of dependence hither to so long endured. So beneficial was the innovation found in practice, that soon every factory store was banished from the place, and since, from all other manufacturing places in New England.
But Mr. Robeson's active benevolence stopped not here. He established a manual labor school connected with his manufacturing establishment; the boys employed were divided into three classes, and each class had one-third of the day for schooling.
It would require a volume to enumerate the great number of beneficent and useful acts performed by Mr. Robeson through a long and active life. His character may be summed up in the traits that constitute enterprise, utility, honesty, firmness, justice, and benevolence."
It is with deep regret that we announce the death of ANDREW ROBESON, Esq., of this city, who was suddenly seized with apoplexy on Monday as he was about entering the cars for home at the Roxbury station, and died in a short time. He had some time since a severe and protracted attack of bleeding at the nose, which reduced him quite low, but he had apparently recovered, and within a few days had expressed himself to friends as feeling in better health than for a good while previously.
Mr. Robeson was a native of Pennsylvania, but has been a resident of this city for nearly fifty years, and for that period has been one of our most respected citizens. He was a man of great energy and industry, of unyielding integrity, of large benevolence and philanthropy, but without a tinge of asceticism, and enjoying rationally such of the pleasures of life as his tastes preferred, without neglecting its duties. He early espoused the cause of the slave, and his purse was always open to the claims of this and other benevolent objects, while his hospitable fireside was the welcome resort of all persons of merit without regard to the prejudices of color, race, or sect.
Mr. Robeson was once unfortunate in business, but discharged all his liabilities, and had a, handsome surplus left-He was twice married, and leaves two children. He was about 75 years old at the time of his death. We can truly say that New Bedford has seldom been called on to lament the loss of a more estimable and upright citizen.—Republican Standard.
REV. ARTHUR B. FULLER. This well-known clergyman, chaplain of the sixteenth Massachusetts regiment, was among the killed at Fredericksburg. Mr. Fuller had been for some time in feeble health, incident to the hardships and exposures of the camp. He returned to his regiment a few days ago to take leave of it in anticipation of accepting a post of chaplaincy in some of the hospitals or convalescent camps about Washington. When a company was detailed, on Saturday, to skirmish in the streets of Fredericksburg, he took a gun and joined them, but in a few minutes fell dead, pierced by a rebel bullet. Mr. Fuller will be greatly missed from the circle in which he moved in Massachusetts, where he had many warm personal friends and admirers.— Worcester Spy.

TERRIFIC BATTLE AT FREDERICKSBURG.
Since our last number was issued, a most terrific battle has taken place between the Federal forces under Gen. Burnside and the Confederate forces at Fredericksburg, resulting in n drawn fight, with great loss of life on both Sides, and the sacrifice of many brave and gallant officers. It was even more sanguinary and desperate than the battle at Antietam, and the Federal loss is estimated to be as great as it was on that occasion — ten or twelve thousand in killed, wounded and missing.	
On Thursday, three pontoon bridges were built I across the Rappahannock, in the face of a murderous; fire on the part of the enemy's sharpshooters, and with unsurpassed heroic daring, over which the Federal forces marched, and took possession of Fredericksburg, which they had previously shelled, setting on fire various buildings, and completely riddling the place,—the inhabitants having almost entirely fled into I the interior.
On Saturday, the conflict raged with unsurpassed fierceness,—the most intrepid and daring efforts to carry the enemy's fortifications at the point of the bayonet being again and again defeated, as these proved to be impregnable, and more formidable than those of Sebastopol itself.
No human valor could hope for success, under such circumstances. Our soldiers were subjected to plunging and cross fires at every step of the way, and mown down like the grass. The details are full of thrilling and sorrowful interest, and would occupy a closely printed page of our paper. On Monday night, our entire army safely recrossed the Rappahannock.
THE REBELS IN MARYLAND. Washington, Dec. 15.— Last night, about 8 o'clock, rebel cavalry, under Major White, about three hundred and ninety-five strong, made a raid into Poolesville, Maryland. They found there thirty-five men of Col. L. Scott's Nine Hundren quartered in a wooden building. After a brief but determined struggle, and when the building was on fire, Lieut. Smith and seventeen men of Co. L, surrendered, and were paroled. On our side the loss was one killed, Lieut. Stiles, and two wounded, namely, Lieut Smith and Corporal Berry. The rebels lost two killed, and thirteen wounded. Of course, they took every thing valuable from the men they patrolled, and thoroughly stripped the body of Lieut. Stiles, who was, according to the testimony of Col. James B. Swain, one of the bravest men that ever I served his country. He had been ten years in the regular service.
RICHMOND, Dec. 9. Brigadier-General Morgan attacked an outpost of the enemy at Hartsville, on the Cumberland river, yesterday, killing and wounding 
200, capturing 1800 prisoners, two pieces of artillery, and 2000 small arms. Our loss was 125 killed and wounded. The day previous, a small foraging train was captured by Gen. Wheeler, near Nashville, with fifty prisoners.
MOBILE, Dec. 9. Twenty-five Federals, captured near Coffeeville, yesterday, were brought in to-day. 
The abolition steamer Lone Star, from New Orleans, was captured recently near Plaquemines, where she had been for sugar. Her crew, ten in number, were captured.
Five Yankees, together with 400 sacks of salt and 2,000 pairs of boots, were captured at Pascagola, Ala. They were taken to Mobile.
SELLING INDIAN CHILDREN. The Alta California of the 5th of October says: "Mr. August Hess, who has returned to this city from a prospecting tour through the lower part of Lake county, informs us that he saw a number of men driving Indian children before them to sell in Napa, Solono, Yolo, and other counties of the Sacramento basin. In one instance, he saw two men driving nine children; in another, two men with four children; in another, one man with two girls, one of them apparently about fourteen years of age.
The age of these children varies from six to fifteen years. Rumor says that about one hundred children have been taken through Lake county this summer for sale. They do not follow the main road, but usually take by-paths. Rumor says, further, that hunters catch them in Mendocine and Humboldt counties, after killing their parents. If the children try to escape, and are likely to succeed, the hunters shoot them. One boy, in Berreyesa Valley, left a fanner to whom he had been sold, and went to another farmer; the purchaser took the boy, and swore he would hang him if he ran away again.”
CITIZENSHIP OF PERSONS OF AFRICAN DESCENT. Attorney-General Bates is preparing, and has nearly completed, a most important and elaborate opinion affirming the citizenship of persons of African descent under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the Dred Scott decision to the contrary notwithstanding. The question to which this opinion is to be the answer arose out of an application by a negro, as master of a vessel, for a clearance, which was referred to the Attorney-General by the Secretary of the Treasury. It is also said that the same general question was raised by the Secretary of State in referring an application for a passport by a negro to the Attorney-General.
<c05>
FATERNITY LECTURES.—The next lecture of the Fifth Courses under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, will be delivered on TUESDAY EVENING, December 23, by GEORGE W. CURTIS, Esq., of New York. Single ticket, 25 cents. To commence at t half past 7 o'clock.
BOSTON FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY.—The concluding lecture of the Course in aid of the suffering Freedmen of Washington, D. C., will be delivered at Joy Street Church, on Monday evening next, December 22, by FREDRICK DOUGLASS.
THE FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. LOUSIS DEMORTIE, the talented young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or " contrabands " of Washington.
SARAH A. L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St. President of the Fugitive Aid Society.
The Quarterly Meeting of the Essex Country Anti-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at DANVERS, Town Hall, on Sunday next, 21st inst., at 10 o'clock, and continuing through the day and evening.
THEODORE D. WELD and PARKER PILLSBURY will be present on the occasion; and it is hoped that many other earnest friends of the slave will be there, and bear their testimony.	RICHARD PLUMER, President.
MARGARET E. BENNETT, Secretary.
ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will speak in CONCORD, N. H., on Sunday evening next, Dec. 21st, on "The Nation's Peril."
Also, at FITCHBURG, on Sunday evening, Dee. 28th.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:—
Portland, Maine, Sunday, Dec. 21.
Hallowell, Maine, Tuesday, Dec. 23.
Waterville, Maine, Wednesday, Dec. 24.
Cornville, Maine, Sunday, Dec. 28.
Athens, Maine, Monday, Dec. 29.
Palmyra, Maine, Tuesday, Dec. 30.
East Pittsfield, Maine, Wednesday, Dec. 31.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak on "The Rebellion and Emancipation," in
Feltonville, Friday evening, Dec. 26.
Marlboro', Sunday afternoon and evening, Dec 28.
AARON M. POWELL will lecture upon Emancipation at
Clayville, New York, Friday, December 19.
Peterboro', New York, Sunday, Dec 21.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society's office, 221 Washington Street.
The very valuable and still timely tract, by Mrs. L. Maria Child, entitled " The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere,'' (108 pages,) will be sent by mail to any person requesting it, and enclosing six cents in undefaced postage stamps. Address age stamps. Address SAMUEL MAY, Jr. 221 Washington St., Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

OBITUARY.
DIED—At Port Royal, S. C, Dec 5, from bodily weakness and indisposition, SAMUEL DUNN PHILLIPS, son of the late Thos. W. Phillips, Esq., of Boston, and for several months a Superintendent of the freedom in the vicinity of Beaufort. A graduate of Harvard in the Clan of 1861, he was but a short time free from college, when his thoughts turned to the unfriended blacks at Port Royal, and on presenting himself before the Educational Committee, be was approved and sent out among the first. His deep religious convictions and eminent conscientiousness, joined with an ever-active benevolence and constant cheerfulness, gave him a near approach to the hearts of his people, and caused him to rank among the most useful of the Superintendents. His whole soul was wrapt up in his mission. From a recent visit to his home, he returned much sooner than the precarious state of his health (always delicate) warranted, and suffered with his life for his devotedness. He leaves a wide! circle of acquaintances and friends to mourn his departure, not least of whom is that outcast race to which he endeared himself, and to which he revealed those qualities that challenged respect and love, and a modesty that was I only equalled by his merit—W. P.G. 
Fell at Hartsville, Tenn., on Sunday, Dec. 7th, while heroically attempting to rally his panic-stricken men, Capt. WILLIAM YATES GHOLSON, Jr., of the 106th Ohio, at that time Acting Assistant Adjutant General of the 39th
Brigade—son of the Hon. Judge Gholson, of Cincinnati.The deceased applied himself, after graduation at Harvard, (Class of 1861,) to the study of law in his native city. In the face of every temptation to the contrary, he made a de liberate and sincere resolve not to take up arms in the present struggle, till our government should proclaim and carry out an anti-slavery purpose, or until there should seem to be the most pressing need of more defenders. The hour of that need he judged to have sounded in the President's first call for 300,000 men, and be became a soldier at once. He was by nature ardent and aspiring, of independent thought and active conscience, generous and affectionate. His intelligent patriotism demanded a country worthy of a sacrifice; and if at the last he did not find it, it will hasten into being sooner because he fell in evoking it. In his death he bequeathed a conspicuous example of courage in the midst of general incapacity and cowardice, and left no room for his many friends to grieve but for their loss alone.—W. P. G.
Fell in the late assault on the rebels at Fredericksburg, Dec 13th, ARTHUR DEHON, SON of William Dehon, Esq., of Boston, previously an officer of the Massachusetts 12th, but then acting as Aid to Gen. Meade of the Pennsylvania Reserves. At one time a fellow-classmate of the foregoing in college, he returned from California to enter the army, and distinguished himself in the disastrous campaign of Pope. Lieutenant Dehon was the officer whose efforts and
bravery secured the body of the late Col. Fletcher Webster. He was large-hearted, gentle-spirited but courageous, and was the centre of a wide boat of affections.— W. P. G.
In Littleton, N. H., Dec 6th, Logan McDowell, aged 41 years. Hit disease was bronchial consumption. He had been declining in health for about two years, suffering from a severe cough and great debility—all of which ha endured with Christian patience, feeling perfectly resigned to the wilt of God. A few hours before he breathed his last, he took his leave of his friends, saying, " Don't sorrow for me—I am going to rest." He took great interest in this great struggles of the nation, watching every movement in reference to liberty and the entire overthrow of slavery. He believed God would give deliverance to the oppressed. But his days are ended: he has gone where war and strife, pain and sickness, can never reach him more. He leaves a wife to mourn the loss of a most devoted husband [Com.
DEATH or Rev. DR. OSGOOD. The Springfield Daily Re-publican announces the death, at his residence in that city, after a brief illness, of Rev. SAMUEL Osgood, D. D., in the seventy-ninth year of his age. Dr. Osgood retired from active pulpit duties in 1854, though he has preached at intervals since that time. During the last six years he has resided partly in Springfield and partly with his son, James H. Osgood, Esq., in this city, where he had many friends, who will hear of his death with regret an sorrow. Dr. Osgood was settled as pastor over the First Congregational church in Springfield, in 1809, fifty-three years ago, and forty-five years was its active pastor and preacher. He was a man of strong and earnest conviction, which he expressed with blunt emphasis when his feelings were roused, united with a simple and affectionate temperament which, endeared him to all who ever looked into the secret places of his heart. –Worcester Spy. 
<c06>
MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Second Term of her Boarding and Day school for Young Ladies,
AT 92 GRAND STREET, NEWBURGH, N.Y., 
ON MONDAY, JANUARY 5TH, 1863
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of music and Moral science, Rhetoric, &c.
MISS H. L. BOW EN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS L. B. SHEPARD, Teacher of LANGUAGES
MISS F. E. NEW LAND, Teacher of Drawing, painting and penmanship.
PROF. T. F. PERKINS, Teacher of Vocal and instrumental music.
Miss PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year will be divided into three terms: tow of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60; per years, $165.
References.-Rev. T.J. Sawyer, D.G., Clinton, N.Y.; Rev. S.W. Fisher, D.D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y.: De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Utica, N.Y.; Rev. A.D. Mayo, Albany, N.Y.; Henry Bigelow, M.D., Newton Mass,; Dio Lewis, M.D. Boston, Mass.; Prof. H.B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N.J.; Rev. E. H. Chapin, D.D. New York; Rev, Austin Craig, D.D., Blooming-Grove, N.Y.
Dec19-3w

THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.	 
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin’s Works on America.
Mcochin is an ex-maire and municipal councillor of the city of Paris. He has great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his forth Coming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively know of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; 
Is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, “among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books 
Of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as de Tocqueville’s work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo’s Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions.”
12mo. Sent FREE BY MAIL, on receipt of the price,-$1.50.
ALSO,
THE REJECTED STONE; or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia. 12mo. Cloth, 50 cents.
“This remarkable book,” says the Christian Examiner, “discusses the question of Emancipation as the result of the war, with a depth of conviction, a boldness of utterance, cogency of argument, wealth of illustration, and withal a keenness of satire and a fervid eloquence, which insurance reader for the book.”
Another critic remarks: “This eloquent argumentative, electric work is instinct with the passion of the South and the reason of the North.”
The Independent opens its criticism with the significant query: “Have we an American Carlyle?”
ALSO,
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH; or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. E.W. Reynolds, author of “ Records of Bubbleton Parish.” With Introduction by Rev. S.J. May, 12mo. 75 cts.
WALKER, WISE & Co.,
Dec12-3t.is 245 Washington Street, Boston.

THE BEST WORK FOR CANVASSING AGENTS.
Harper’s Pictorial History
OF
The Great Rebellion
In
THE UNITED STATES.
MESSRS. HARPER & BROTHERS have commenced the issue in numbers of complete HISTORY OF THE GREAT REBELLION IN THE UNITED STATES. The work has been for many months in course of preparation, by a writer every way qualified for the task.
The INTRODUCTION contains a clear and succinct account of the formation of The Confederacy of the States; the formation and adoption of the Constitution of the United States, and the establishment of the National Government: the origin development, and progress of the doctrines of Nullification and Secession, and the various phases which they assumed until their final culmination in the Great Rebellion.
The HISTORY comprises a full account drawn from the most authentic sources, of all the Events of the War; the intrigues of the Southern leaders at home and abroad; the gradual defection of one section; the great Uprising of the people for the maintenance of the National Life and Existence; the Battles by Land and Sea.
The ILLUSTRATIONS comprise Portraits of all those who have borne a prominent part in the struggle; Maps of the different localities; Plans of the leading actions; Views of every scene of interest, and of the most important Battles. These Illustrations are mostly from drawings taken on the spot by artists deputed for that purpose to accompany every division of our Army and Navy.
Every Facility at the command of the Publishers has been employed in the preparation and execution of the work; and they confidently believe that it will form the most trustworthy and valuable history which can be prepared of THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR THE AMERICAN UNION.

Mode and Terms of Publication.
The work will be issued in Numbers, each consisting of 24 pages of the size of “Harper’s Weekly,” printed from clear type, upon fine paper, and will probably be completed in about Twenty Numbers.
The Number will be issued at intervals, if possible, of about three or four weeks.
The price of each Number, which contains matter equivalent to an ordinary volume, will be Twenty-five cents. 
The Illustrations in each Number are alone worth the price asked. Men out of employment, especially

SICK OR DISABLED SOLDIERS,
Can find no other work so sure of ready sale and good profits. For Furthers Particulars apply to the Publishers,
HARPER & BROTHERS, dec19tf Franklin Square, New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 
233 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
NO. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

A.J. GROVER, 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARL VILLES, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8 tf.

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTONEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON,















































<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THY WILL BE DONE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
We see not, know not, all our way
Is night—with Thee alone is day;
From out the torrent’s troubled drift,
Above the storm our prayers we lift,
Thy will be done!
The flesh may fail, the heart may faint,
But who are we to make complaint,
Or dare to plead in times like these
The weakness of our love of ease?
Thy will be done!
We take with solemn thankfulness
Our burthen up, nor ask it less,
And count it joy that even we
May suffer, serve, or wait for Thee,
Whose will be done!
Though dim as yet in tint and line,
We trace Thy picture’s wise design,
And thank Thee that our age supplies
The dark relief of sacrifice.
Thy will be done!
And if, in our unworthiness,
Thy sacrificial wine we press,
If from Thy ordeal’s heated bars
Our feet are seamed with crimson scars,
Thy will be done!
If, for the age to come, this hour
Of trial hath vicarious power,
And, bless’d by Thee, our present pain
Be Liberty’s eternal gain,
Thy will be done!
Strike, Thou, the Master, we Thy keys,
The anthem of the destinies!
The minor of Thy loftier strain,
Our hearts shall breathe the old refrain,
Thy will be done!
From the Salem Observer.
“THE LORD IS OUR KING.”
God of the Nations! O’er our land
Shed thy protecting power;
Let Freedom’s voice at thy command
Rule sovereign of the hour.
When dark Rebellion’s lowering mien
Sends froth her tempest frown,
The Star of Peace o’ershadowing
To hurl her altars down;—
To rend the sacred chain which holds
Our land united, free—
And plant, ‘mid its dissevered folds,
The rod of Tyranny;—
Thou, who the stormy winds canst break,
Where lashing surges roar,
Chain every heart that dares to wake
Contention on our shore.
So hallowed by the kindred breath
Of those who nobly trod
The road to famine, fear and death,
For Freedom and their God.
The glory of their sleeping dust
Lies hidden in the tie
That binds a nation to its trust
In fadeless purity.
Bright monuments of Faith and Hope,
Forever may they stand
Entwined amid the stars that float
Above the sea-beat strand.
God of our strength, our Country bless,
To thee her cause we bring—
With Sword and Crown of righteousness
Be thou the Conqueror, King.
GOD SAVE OUR PRESIDENT!
BY E. S. BABCOCK.
God save our President!
‘Mid perils imminent,
Guide thou his hand;
Oh! While the storm-clouds lower,
Of Treason’s threatening power,
In this her darkest hour,
God save our land!
God save our President!
May grace omnipotent
Direct his life;
May he enforce our laws;
Nor, in this fearful pause,
Yield Freedom’s sacred cause
To party strife.
God save our President!
Trustful and confident,
Thy time we wait;
When he with Right shall stand,
And, with uplifted hand,
Proclaim through all the land,
EMANCIPATE!
God save our President!
Soon will the night be spent,
Light sheds its rays;
Freedom shall be the dawn
To Union’s glorious morn;
Then, when sweet peace is born,
Thine be the praise!
Southampton, Ill.
HOMELESS.
BY ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.
It is cold, dark midnight, yet listen
To that patter of tiny feet!
Is it one of your dogs, fair lady,
Who whines in the bleak, cold street?—
Is it one of your silken spaniels
Shut out in the snow and the sleet?
My dogs sleep warm in their baskets,
Safe from the darkness and snow;
All the beasts in our Christian England
Find pity wherever they go—
(These are only the homeless children
Who are wandering to and fro.)
Look out in the gusty darkness—
I have seen it again and again,
That shadow, that flits so slowly
Up and down past the window pane;
It is surely some criminal lurking
Out there in the frozen rain!
Nay, our criminals are all sheltered,
They are pitied and taught and fed;
That is only a sister woman
Who has got neither food nor bed—
And the Night cries “sin to be living,”
And the River cries “sin to be dead.”
Look out at that farthest corner
Where the walls stand blank and bare:
Can that be a pack which a pedlar
Has left and forgotten there?
His goods lying out unsheltered
Will be spoilt by the damp night air.
Nay:—goods in our thrifty England
Are not left to lie and grow rotten,
For each man knows the market value
Of silk or woolen or cotton—
But in counting the riches of England,
I think our Poor are forgotten.
Our Beasts and our Thieves and our Chattels
Have weight for good or for ill;
But the Poor are only His image,
His presence, His word, His will—
And so Lazarus lies at our door-step,
And Dives neglects him still.
SPIRIT-FRIENDS.
O could we all the world forget,
And bear the truth without disguise,
Our hearts might hear the love-tones yet
Of spirit-friends in Paradise.
<c02>
The Liberator.
GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. AND MR. BUXTOH, M. P.
On the 18th ultimo, George Thompson, Esq., late M. P. for the Tower Hamlets, delivered, in the hall of the Cora Exchange, Maidstone, an address on the civil war in America, with special reference to the speech recently made by Mr. Buxton, M. P., at the dinner of the Maidstone Agricultural Association. The Rev. R. E. B. M’Clellan presided, and on the platform were Mr. G. Ed men, Mayor; Mr. F. Dougal, Mr. G. Kemp, Mr. Swinfin, Mr. T. Wells, Mr. Rook, Mr. Ball, &c. The hall was densely crowded.
The Chairman briefly introduced Mr. Thompson.
Mr. Thompson then came forward, and was received with load and prolonged cheering. When the applause bad subsided—
Mr. Thompson said he bad come to Maidstone to offer some remarks at variance with the sentiments which Mr. Buxton had recently delivered. Mr. Box-ton was a gentleman justly respected, and he (Mr. Thompson) had known and respected him long before he had become acquainted with the borough. Mr. Thompson then proceeded to say that, for thirty years, he had been engaged in the discussion of the slavery question, and tint he had been throughout the States of America, and had seen the working of slavery there. These, he submitted, were his qualifications for presuming to rectify the opinions which bad been expressed by one of their members. (Cheers.) With regard to the speech that had been referred to, he had this to say, that if it was a correct view of the present state of the question, then his thirty years' study had been in vain, and if the Hon. gentleman was right, then he (Mr. Thompson) was entirely wrong. (Interruption) Let those who interrupted attend to what he said. If Mr. Buxton, he repeated, bad stated that which was true, then he (Mr. Thompson) knew nothing of the subject; but if that which he was about to state was the truth, then Mr. Buxton was wholly ignorant of the subject he had discussed. (Applause) The present state of things in America was, he contended, the fruit of the accursed system of slavery—that vile institution which we had abolished in our own dependencies. (Cheers.) Mr. Buxton had informed them that "he was unable to discover that that war had anything to do with slavery." What was the history of the origin and cause of the present struggle? When the Declaration of Independence had been promulgated, slavery existed more or less throughout the thirteen States; but, before the Constitution was adopted, it was abolished, either immediately or gradually, in all the States North of Maryland. At the time of the Constitution, there had been seven free States and six slave States—the latter being Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, Maryland, and Delaware. As soon as the Union had been formed, the Southern States, well knowing that an increase of territory and of States would add to their political power, proceeded to divide the existing States, and to form new ones. Thus Kentucky hail been formed out of Virginia, and Alabama and Mississippi out of Georgia and North Carolina. These new States had then been brought into the Union, and the Slave Power was therefore greatly increased. But, not satisfied with this, they obtained the purchase, by the Federal Government, of Louisiana, a vast territory stretching from the mouths of the Mississippi, along the whole valley of that mighty river, to the very base of the Rocky Mountains. Out of this territory, the State of Louisiana proper had been formed, and a new slave State brought into the Union. The next step had been the purchase of Florida from Spain, adding another slave State to the Union. Thus slavery had pursued its career of aggrandizement, but it was from no love of slavery on the part of the North.
When he had been first in America, the pro-slavery feeling of the North had been stronger than at any former time; but, even then, their concessions to the South had arisen from the fact, not that they hated: slavery less, but that they had loved the Union more. The Union had ever been the god of their political idolatry.
Now, a word as to the right of a State to secede from the Union. There was no such right. (Some expressions of dissent.) There was no one profoundly acquainted with the history of the American Republic, either in America or England, who contended for that right. Let those who wanted information on this point read the two masterly essays published by Mr. Motley in the columns of the Times, when the secession first broke out, and the opinions which had issued from the pen of Mr. John Stuart Mill, one of the greatest thinkers of the age, or the speeches of Daniel Webster, the greatest constitutional jurist America had produced. Constitutional secession was an absurdity. (Cheers.) Before the Constitution had been adopted, each State was sovereign, but the Union called upon each State to merge its individual sovereignty in a common nationality, and from that time the people of the several States became one people under a Constitution which provided that those who sought its overthrow should be punished as guilty of treason. No Constitution in the world had ever been framed with a view to its own dissolution. (Cheers.) There was always a revolutionary right to secede, and a corresponding obligation resting on the servants of the Constitution to repress such a revolution, and to punish its a bettors.
Mr. Thompson then resumed his narrative of the growth of the Slave Power in America, especially referring to the Missouri compromise, the Mexican war, and the annexation of Texas, and the resistance offered to the admission of California into the Union as a free State. He also referred to the monopoly of the government of the country by the election of slave-holding Presidents, during sixty eight years of the Union, to the exclusion of men of Northern birth, who, in the instances in which they were elevated to the chair, were compelled to pledge themselves beforehand to be the servile instruments of their Southern supporters. After particularly alluding to Gen. Pierce and Mr. Buchanan, he traced the rise and growth of the anti-slavery political party in the North. That party were able to give only 156,000 votes in 1842, when they nominated Mr. Hale, but the same party, in 1856, cast 1,300,000 votes in favor of Colonel Fremont The causes which led to this extraordinary augmentation of the anti-slavery party were the measures which the South had carried in the interval—such as the infamous Fugitive Slave Law, the horrors of which the speaker vividly depicted; the payment of $10,000,000 to Texas to reimburse that State for its spoliation of the territory of Mexico; the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, by which the barrier to the extension of slavery was destroyed; the barier assaults upon Mr. Sumner and other members of Congress at Washington, and the decision obtained from the Judges of the Supreme Court, (a majority of whom were slaveholders,) that slavery was constitutional in every part of the Union, whether in the States or Territories. The election of Mr. Buchanan had placed the pro-slavery party in power for four years, but the strength displayed by the Northern party convinced the South the period of their domination was drawing to a close. The South determined, therefore, to make preparations for a dissolution of the Union and the establishment of a separate Confederacy. The traitors in Mr. Buchanan's Cabinet resolved that If the Republicans should elect their candidate in 1860, be should not have the means of resisting successfully the rebel movement of the South. They corrupted the United States army; they scattered to distant places the United States navy; they robbed the national treasury; they emptied the arsenals and armaments of the North, and transferred their contents to the South; they withdrew the garrisons from the forts in the South, in order that the defences of the country might more easily Ml into the hands of the rebels. As soon as they had struck their meditated Mow, they seized upon every sub-treasury, every mint, custom-house, revenue cutter, arsenal, dock-,
<c03>
yard, ship and Government storehouse, together with every fort and all other descriptions of national property. (Applause.) They then organized a Government for the express purpose of maintaining the inviolability of negro slavery, which they made the chief corner-stone of their new republic.
After some further remarks, explaining the action of the South, Mr. Thompson said he would direct his attention to that portion of Mr. Boston's speech m which he said the North hated the South. Mr. Box-ton said that "every traveller for many years past who ever went into the North told us how they (the North) abhorred the South." (Hear.) He would observe, in passing, that this assertion was scarcely consistent with what Mr. Buxton had said in the same speech—namely, that "the North was eager with both hands to throw overboard the negroes, if the South would but hold to the Union"; and again, that the North " suggested compromise after compromise on the question of the extinction of slavery to induce them to stay." Now, as to the North bating the South, he (Mr. Thompson) had twice visited and travelled through the Northern States, and he had betides read, he believed, the works of every distinguished traveller in America
during the last thirty years, and upon their authority, as well as upon that of his own experience, he would offer a flat contradiction to Mr. Buxton's statement. His (the speaker's) charge against the North bad always been, that it had been too anxious to conciliate by compromise and concession the good opinion and friendship of the South. (Cheers.) He might challenge Mr. Buxton to show that any Southern man had ever been insulted at the North. He challenged him to quote from the work of any traveller of authority any proof of the hatred he had alleged. Nothing was more notorious than that the men of the South going to the North were invariably treated with kindness, respect, and hospitality. (Cheers.) Southern ministers of religion were permitted to preach in all the Northern pulpits, and while a Northern man suspected of anti-slavery principles could not go into the South but at the risk of outrage or death, no traveller from the South to the North had ever in a single instance received ill-treatment at the hands of the people. (Cheers.) He (the speaker) would ask whether the election of slaveholding Presidents during sixty-eight years of the Union was not a fact most amply demonstrating that the North cherished no hatred of the South. (Cheers.)
He would now notice Mr. Buxton's criticism on Mr. Lincoln's proclamation. The honorable member had said, "Mr. Lincoln's proclamation was not the abolition of slavery." This was a most extraordinary assertion, and entirely in opposition to the facts which had come to his (Mr. Thompson's) knowledge.
The speaker alluded to several circumstances, which he contended proved that, in the opinion of the American people, the proclamation meant the abolition of slavery. He would not, however, rest his demand that the sympathy of England should be given to the North solely on the ground of Mr. Lincoln's proclamation. He would call attention to what had been done during the short period Mr. Lincoln had been in power. (Cheers.) Slavery and the slave trade had been driven out of the District of Columbia, which was the seat of Government. (Loud applause.) The black republics of Hayti and Liberia had been recognized, and now the colored ministers from those States could appear at Washington upon a footing of equality with the ambassadors from Russia, France, and England. (Cheers, and a voice, "They won't let a black man sit in the house of God.") He did not think it was generous, when he was making a I reference to the noble conduct of President Lincoln in I recognizing two negro republics, to reproach the people of America with their prejudice against color. No man had rebuked that prejudice with greater severity than he had done, but justice demanded that he should say that the worst persecutors of the negro at the present time, and for many years, had not been the native-born citizens of America, but those who had been subjects of the British Crown, and had emigrated to the United States. The colored man at this moment was at least treated with respect, if not with equality. Jim Crow cars had been abolished—district schools had been thrown open for colored children— and he knew Governors of States who would feel more pleasure in sitting down and conversing with the blackest negro whom God had created, than with the most polished and kid-gloved Apologist of Southern rebellion. (Much cheering.) Let those who desired to see this prejudice removed assist every measure tending to elevate the negro to the condition of a free man, for never, until color ceased to be the badge of slavery, could the negro rise to a level of equality with the white man. (Cheers.) Many, however, were above this prejudice; and he had heard Frederick Douglass, a negro, relate bow, on entering a railway car in Massachusetts, Governor Briggs of that State rose and brought him to his seat, and conversed with him to the end of the journey. (Applause.) He then went on to remark that, by an Act of Congress, slavery had been declared forever illegal throughout all the national territories, thus preserving the vast regions of the far Southwest sacred to freedom and
free labor. (Cheers.)
Another most important measure was the treaty between the Federal Government and England, conceding the mutual right of search, so that now the slave trade was no longer protected by the American flag, and a British cruiser could seize the ship of an American who prostituted that flag, and could procure its condemnation in any port where there was a mixed commission. (Loud cheers.)
Let them take another fact. So early as last March, as would be in the remembrance of many, Mr. Lincoln addressed a solemn and earnest message to Congress, directing their attention to the expediency of giving a pledge to indemnify the Slave States generally—but more particularly alluding to the border and loyal States, to indemnify them in the event of their passing acts in their own Legislatures for the immediate or gradual abolition of slavery. (Cheers.) The Congress adopted a resolution in conformity with the President's proposal, and towards the close of the session, Mr. Lincoln convened a meeting at his residence of the Representatives of the loyal Slave States, and conjured them to recommend the adoption, by their constituents, of the measure proposed. This surely was an indication of a desire to abolish, in a peaceful and constitutional manner, the institution of slavery. (Cheers.)
One of the laws passed by the late Congress was intended to give liberty to every fugitive slave escaping to the lines of the Federal army—(cheers)—and
another, more sweeping still, was for the absolute confiscation of the slave property of the rebels wheresoever they might be found. This law came into operation on the day preceding that on which the proclamation was published, to that in fact there had been no legal slavery in the rebel States since the 21st of September.
Having noticed these measures, every one of which exhibited alike the anti-slavery feeling of the Government, and the determination of the people at large to support an anti-slavery policy, he asked on which side should the sympathies of England be manifested? (Cries of "The North.") England, with her glorious history, fall of the records of struggles for freedom and the right; England, with her marble monuments to Fox and Wilberforce, Granville Sharp and Sturge, Romilly and Buxton; England, that toiled for thirty years for the abolition of the slave trade—that toiled for thirty more for the abolition of slavery—that paid twenty millions to ransom her table bondmen. (Load cries of "With the North.") Yea, certainly, with the North; for how could they be given to the South —to the south that had hated England always, most of all for having liberated her slaves—the South that had incarcerated England's free colored seamen and I sold them into slavery when they were unable to pay their prison fees -the South that had always obstructed England in her noble efforts to suppress the infernal slave trade—the South whose slave codes inflicted the penalty of death for the office, when twice committed, of teaching a slave child to read? (Sensation.)
<c04>
Where, above all, should England be in the present straggle, with a proclamation of freedom on the one side, and a decree of eternal slaver; on the other—where, if not by the side of those who are marching to the enfranchisement of four millions of men, waiting with trembling anxiety for the hoar of their redemption? (Load cheers.)
As a reason why the English people should exhibit greater toleration towards the Northern States, with regard to their shortcomings on the slavery question, Mr. Thompson alluded to the experience of this country in the anti slavery contest. Shall we, who so lately washed our own garments from blood;— shall we, who carried on the slave trade for centuries, and supplied America herself with slaves—who saw our bishops, our peers, and princes of the blood steadily resist, for a quarter of a century, the humane efforts of Mr. Wilberforce to bring the slave trade to an end;—shall we, whose Glasgow, and Bristol, and Liverpool were built up by the slave-trade, reproach America for not having done the great work before? Above all, shall we choose the present-time to hurl our taunts at her, when she is showing a disposition to make reparation for her past misdeeds, and gathering up her energies for the utter overthrow of that system which the South is now fighting to render perpetual? (Loud cheers.) Let us remember that, for many years, the anti-slavery associations of this country asked for nothing more than the mitigation of the evils of slavery, with a view to its gradual abolition, and would have been thankful for any measure that tended to ameliorate the horrors of the system. Well did he remember the 14th of May, 1883, when Mr. Stanley (now Lord Derby) introduced the Government measure for the abolition of colonial slavery. At the end of the debate which ensued, he (the speaker) met Mr. Buxton, the distinguished father of their member, in the lobby of the House, who, taking him by the hand, exclaimed, "What think you of the resolutions?" He (Mr. Thompson) thought they should be rejected on account of the apprenticeship and compensation clauses, when Mr. Buxton rejoined, " Oh, let us not throw them out, but thank God that we have lived to see the day when a Minister of the Crown should propose to the Legislature a bill for the abolition of the system we have so long desired to see abolished." (Loud cheers.) And was it not equally a matter of the highest congratulation to see a proclamation issuing from the hand of the President of the United States, decreeing that on the 1st of January, 1863, every slave in every rebel State should be thenceforth and forever free? (Prolonged applause.)
After a powerful appeal to the audience to stand by the side of truth and justice, Mr. Thompson said he would take the liberty of submitting a resolution to the meeting. He had not asked any gentleman on the platform to propose it, because he did not, in the slightest degree, wish any one around him should be I compromised with him in his opinions. The resolution was in the following terms:—"That this meeting, having heard the exposition given by Mr. Thompson of the questions involved in the present civil war in America, desires to express its opinion that the emancipation policy of President Lincoln and his Cabinet is deserving of the moral support and sympathy of Englishmen."
Mr. Thompson concluded, amid great applause, a very eloquent and forcible speech, which occupied about two hours in the delivery.
Mr. Swinfin said he would, with great pleasure, second the resolution.
Mr. Cook proposed an amendment, "That the meeting expressed its detestation of slavery all over the world." (Some applause.)
Mr. Wickham seconded the amendment.
After some further discussion, during which Mr. Thompson answered, to the satisfaction of the audience, several points that had been raised, the vote was taken, and from forty to fifty hands were held up for the amendment. The original resolution was then put, and carried by an overwhelming majority. The announcement by the chairman of the decision of the meeting was hailed with great applause.
A vote of thanks was then tendered to Mr. Thompson, who proposed that a similar compliment should be paid to the chairman. This motion was cordially complied with, and the proceedings terminated.
MEADVILLE THEOLOGICAL SCHOOL
On the sacred evening of December 2d, a meeting was held in this institution, commemorative of John Brown. The gathering was originated by some half dozen of the students. There was considerable opposition; but the martyr truly said, "Time and the honest verdict of posterity will approve of every act of mine." The meeting was held in the chapel of Divinity Hall, and many friends from the town were present. We give some extracts from the letter of a friend in Meadville.
*** The proceedings were very solemn. First was sung the martyr's favorite hymn, "Blow ye the trumpet, blow." His spirit seemed to stand there, and blow a blast louder than all. Then Prof. Carey read some of those passages which the Messiah, in his second coming, deemed worthy to present, as embodying his doctrine—words that had so often fallen from heroic lips. They came home with new meaning and force. Then we boys rose, one after another, and tried to utter the feelings which welled up in our hearts. Of course we made short, perhaps boyish speeches, but our friends will not charge us with any false feeling, or sham endeavor to immortalize the already immortal memory of good John Brown. Finally, the Rev. Dr. Stearns (the President of the school) rose from his chair, and, for three quarters of an hour, electrified all with the eloquence of his earnest soul. I wish you could have beard him! Three years ago, I listened to brave Christian words in Tremont Temple. The fire of liberty burned brighter, as noble thoughts fell from the lips of Martin, Griffin! Pierpont, Garrison, Clarke; but I never, never heard such earnest, living, burning words spoken for John Brown, as Father Stearns uttered on this occasion. He spoke of those who essayed to measure John! Brown's character, and charge him with foul crime. After marshaling before his mind those Christians (?) who sat in judgment on the noble nature of this new messiah of the slave, he passed judgment on them thus: "They are not fit, they are not fit to measure the lift and character of John Brown."
After singing "Am I a Soldier of the Cross," our friends went home, saying, "We were doubly paid for coming." We did have a good meeting. Some of our brothers who opposed us came in and listened.
The longer I study the life of John Brown, the brighter his great soul shines. His tabernacle is the emancipation of the slave. May all true lovers of liberty and the law of God bow before it, and do homage!
In commemoration of the martyrdom of John Brown, a public meeting was held at the residence of Dr. Knox, 59 Anderson street, in Boston, Dec 2d.
The President (J. H. Fowler) being absent, J. B. Smith was chosen pro tern.
The meeting was opened by prayer by Rev. Mr. Grimes, and the singing of an emancipation song. The President remarked that he was happy that another opportunity was afforded for meeting together for the purpose of commemorating the life and acts of one of the greatest Christian heroes of this or any other age. May the race for whom he offered up his noble life such a sublime sacrifice never forget that day on which he consummated his glorious devotion to those principles to which he had given the best energies of his noble nature and his life? We cannot appreciate too highly that beatiful life, and the sacrifices which it involved. To the martyrdom of John Brown we are indebted for the convulsions now shaking this great country, and the bright prospects of freedom that have been produced by it. His death was the precursor, ordained by the great God, to open the glorious way of the slave's redemption. Appointed and directed by the will and power of God, neither his life nor death can possibly be called a failure. In
<c05>
view of this fact, I have the strongest confidence in the present triumph of right. The confiscation act and the proclamation must of an inevitable necessity be carried out. The work began will continue to its completion.
ABRIDGED REMARKS OF DR. KNOX.
MR. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS—We have met to commemorate the martyrdom of a prophet, puritan, hero, and practical Abolitionist; one who gave his life freely, feeling in his noble soul that to die for the down-trodden stare without a murmur was the fain of the helpless slave.
Three years ago to-day, in Charlestown, Virginia, there was more enduring, transcending glory reflected from the scaffold of John Brown, than there has been since in the whole State by the military display of both slaveholding armies. In view of this, friends, can we forget to keep this day to the end? As for me and my house, we will.
I am aware that terrible events are upon us; still, the earth remains. How was it three years ago to-day in all the North? All was mourning and tears. Why this indifference, this falling by the way-side? A spasmodic condition, I suppose; therefore requiring an anti-spasmodic remedy, intense hatred to slavery and all its relations.
John Brown was put to death by the most infamous statute and bloody hands that ever disgraced a semi-barbarous State, and yet that State is courted by the Government!
I cannot refrain from speaking of those young heroes of Harper's Ferry, the disciples of Brown. How nobly they suffered and died that the slave might go free! From John Huss the martyr to the day of their execution, we look in vain for young martyrs more glorious.
If we are a divided nation, whose fault is it? I am not so stupid as to believe that England will not accomplish her work, when I remember that she sent John Henry here on a secret mission to undermine this Union when we had given her no vantage ground. Since this war was levied by the South, we have given her all the means by an armed servility to the rebels, rather than conquest; by protecting property, the sinews of war, rather than confiscation; by holding slaves for them, rather than liberating them. Who can conquer an enemy under these circum. stances? In this way England and the South will succeed. I am aware that there is a North in England as well as a South, represented by that able and eloquent champion of British and American emancipation, George Thompson, and on the other hand by that small specimen of a man, G. W. P. Bentinck, M. P. Had our Government struck for liberty even during the first six months of the war, the months of all tories and oppressors would have been closed, long ere this, both in England and America. At the conclusion of these remarks, the meeting adjourned to meet Dec. 2d, 1863.
MEMORIAL OF A HUMPBACK.
Our little friend came to us out of the shadow. He was fatherless and motherless; more than an orphan, for not only were his father and mother dead, but none knew who or what they had been. He scarcely knew himself who or what they had been. His childhood, his home, his early youth, lay in deep, dark shade. He had but spectral and fleeting memories of the past. A bit of driftwood, a piece of sea-weed, torn from the ooze, he lay floating on the surface of life in this vast city, which, seeing the poor boy struggling helplessly with the tide, put out its strong, kind arm, and bore him to that stern shore so thickly strewn with shipwrecks—Randall's Island. There, for no fault, but that grievous one of being poor, small, lonely, and forsaken, the lad lay several years, breathing such moral atmosphere as they breathe who live there.
One by one his companions, bright, able-bodied, hopeful boys, were taken away by pitying citizens, to work on farms, in shops, in factories, at domestic service; but the little deformed boy was useless for such purposes, and was left behind. There was none to take him. Visitors came and went, and left him there alone.
At last he was seen and noticed by those kind eyes which have thrown their light and love into so many dark place, and have found so much goodness where others have found vileness only. He was brought away to a Christian home.
Our friends took him in for pity's sake, being unwilling that the poor unfortunate should perish thus early and sadly, if they could help it. For humanity's sake, for Christ's sake, for God's sake, they took him in, and gave him a borne in their home. Delicacy forbids my saving all I might of their kindness in so doing. But I must not say less than this: that they gave him a home as good as their own, they gave him freely all the comforts and privileges they enjoyed themselves, they treated him in every respect as their own son.
Our little friend was not beautiful. There was no comeliness in him that he should be desired. He was cruelly deformed, a withered, stunted little creature; every line of his shape was crooked; every organ in his body seemed out of place. His face was pinched and brown, with wrinkles in it as of untimely suffering and sorrow. It was the face of an old man; but there was that within which did not correspond with this disagreeable and repulsive outside. The angels love to sing in stables. God is not careful or choice in selecting caskets for his jewels, and in this casket, so rude and unshapely, in this casket of lead he placed one of his sweetest spirits; a spirit very true and gentle, thoroughly self-respecting, and sensitive, far beyond the common. The little humpback had the bearing of a natural gentleman; he possessed an unaffected dignity of character, a sense of what was due from himself to others, and from others to himself, which is rare in any class. I knew him much less than some others did, who may be present, outside of this household. But I can testify, from my personal observation, to his remarkable hunger for knowledge, to his great desire for an education, to his truly high ambition to become h s own master, to his proud desire to acquire an independent position, and perform an independent service, for the world. His sympathies were as true as they were quick. He was responsive to large and fine thoughts. He was drawn to the best people. 1 have seen him in his claw at Sunday-school, the most earnest listener there, when the teacher touched any of the great principles of noble living or told a story of self-sacrifice. His eye flashed in an instant at the deed of wrong, and as instantly filled with tears at the tale of sorrow. He had a genuine fellow-feeling with the unfortunate; never forgetting amid his privileges that be was one of them, never being ashamed that he was one. In his comfortable and happy home, he remembered always most affectionately his companions at the Island. To one in particular whom be had been drawn to by the fellowship of suffering, he would write letters and send pocket-money, and when the little fellow came to see him in the city, his joy was as real as if his visitor bad been a gentleman's son. His morals were singularly pure, his tastes singularly refined, his manners delicate, his behavior simple and unobtrusive, his habits neat and decorous. There was a grace in him, such as we commonly associate with gentle blood.
I try to think of him as a man of twenty-five, twenty, even eighteen years old, and the thought of him thus is ail made up of sadness. I think of him as coming to a man's sense of his deformity, and of the trial to which it would subject him. I think of him with a man's heart, but without a man's opportunity, or a man's career. I think of him as eager to learn, yet meeting, on the very threshold of knowledge, with physical and social disabilities which he could not remove; ambitious to excel, bat condemned to fail behind the young, and strong, and beautiful; resolute to maintain independence, but not allowed to stand in the tame group with the favored of society; generous, loyal, confiding, bat meeting no welcome from the world which worships grace and loveliness. We know bow men and women regard the crooked, the distorted, the humpbacked. Imagine what the sensitive boy mast have suffered from the cold looks and cold words, from the repugnance, the distrust, the derision that would have met him on all sides. Imagine the cruel disappointments, the bitter griefs, the biting humiliations, the glooms that would have come down on his soul. Think of him with his
<c06>
Unfolding affections drawn out to objects which they could never hope to attain. Who would have gives the humpback love for love? Answer that question; and think how much desolation and heart break are in the answer. It was a tender hand that led him away before he could know all this depth of suffering.
 We will not say, then that his death was untimely. No death, perhaps, is untimely, if we knew all. Some lives are longer, some shorter, the all lives end at the hour, net before. Some spirit lights upon the planet only to spring away again. Some stay a few months, some a few yeas— some wait to learn the earliest lessons in the alphabet of Providence—others must go into the high mysterious of Experience, and spend a generation or two is care, duty, toil, and sorrow.
 For the rest, we believe in Immortality. Indeed, we believe in Life, and only in Life. We do not believe in Death. Death but opens the door in another chamber of the Father’s mansion which Jesus spoke of—that mansion, which is wide as the infinite care—bright with the infinite Wisdom—homelike and happy with the infinite Love. This is but one of the lower and darker rooms of that heavenly home; how low and dark for the part to him, we know, Our little brother has passed on to a higher being. There is nothing in the angels that was not folded up in this children heart. Now it is free to show what it was. The veil is taken from his face; the burden is lifted from his spirit.
 He lives here, too, in association and memory. His form will be in these rooms yet for many a day—I am sure that, for many a day, it will be a these hearts; he will make a part of the household; he will bear a share in domestic thoughts and feelings—in family joys and sorrows. Going away, he carries his friends with him, and leaves himself behind.
 Let us believe that he leaves behind his pain and weakness and infirmity, as he leaves the unhandsome flesh of his mortal body to moulder in the from which it came. Let us be thankful that the knew him; let us be grateful for the good be manifested and did; let us rejoice that the earliest tabernacle is dissolved in which he groaned, being burdened, and the Spirit, whose child he was the taken away his vile body, and clothed him with a glorious body, such as befits the mind he revealed. —Rev. O.B. Frothingham, N.Y., at the Funeral of Robert F. Denyer, adopted son of John and Rev. Hopper, Oct. 19th 1862.
To the Honorable, the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County, of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February A.D. eighteen hundred and sixty-three.
RESPECTFULLY represents Cornelia James, of Wrentham, in said county of Norfolk, that she married Thomas K. James, at Providence, in the State of Island and Providence Plantations, on the twenty-eight day of July, A.D. eighteen hundred and forty-nine; that her maiden name was Cornelia Taylor; that she not her said husband, from said twenty-eight day of July, A.D. eighteen and forty-nine, afterwards, lived to gather to husband and wife, at Wrentham aforesaid, until the eight day of November, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five; that on said eighth day of November, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five, said Thomas K. James separated himself fine her, his said wife, and has not since lived with her; that she has at all times been faithful to her marriage that on, or about, the first day of February, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-six, said Thomas K. James will fully and utterly deserted her, his said wife, without he consent; that said desertion has continent uninterruptedly from that time until the time of the filing of this libel. And your libellant further represents that said Thomas K James now resides in or near Rochester, in the State of New York.
Wherefore your libellant prays a divorce from the bond of matrimony between her and her said husband be decreed to her by this Court; that suitable alimony may be decreed to be paid her by her said husband, at such times as to that Court shall seem proper; that she may be allowed to assume her maiden name; and that such other and further order and decree may be passed by this Court, as justice may require. CORNELIA JAMES.
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
SUFFOLK, SS. Supreme Judicial Court,
At Chambers in Boston, Dec. 6, 1862.
On the foregoing libel, it is ordered, that he libellant give a notice to the said Thomas K. James, to appear before the Justices of this Court next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February next, by publishing an attested copy of said libel and of this order thereon once a week, three weeks successively, in the Boston Liberator, a newspaper printed in said Boston, the last publication to be thirty days, at least, before said third Tuesday of February next; also by depositing in the Post Office, postage prepaid, a copy of said libel and order, enclosed, directed to the said Thomas K. James at Rochester, in the State of New York, thirty days, at least, before said third Tuesday of February next, and making affidavit that this part of the order have been complied with; that the said Thomas K. James may then and there shew cause why the prayer of said libel should not be granted.
By the order of George T. Bigelow, Esq., Chief Justice of said Court, GEO. C. WILDE, Clerk.
A true copy of said libel, and of the order thereon.
Attest, GEO. C. WILDE, Clerk.
Deel2-3w
A GOOD CHANCE TO MAKE $50 to $100
PER MONTH, AND EXPENSE.
A GENTS WANTED, immediately to sell J.T. Lloyd’s cheap and elegant Maps in Maine and New Hampshire. J.T. Lloyd’s Maps of the United States, Map of Virginia, and Map of Southern States. Sent to pedlars and others, without delay, to any part of Maine or New Hampshire, by express.
Address H.J.L. STANWOOD & CO., Brunswick, Maine with stamp inclosed. <illegible> 

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. <illegible> 
154 Washington St, 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
DENTISTRY.
DD. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years, inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20 1862.
ICH DIEN
GLOBE HOTEL
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,)
NEW YORK.
