THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO, 6.
ROBER F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-TWO dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.,
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATIOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDNUSD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO.19. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1637.
Refuge of Oppression
<c01>
THE PORT ROYAL MISSION.
Editors of the Journal of Commerce:
SIRS,-In your paper of Saturday you say, "The nonsensical, wild and fanatical plans of irresponsible men and women which are having their trial at Port Royal are a subject of sorrow and disgust to the intelligent world." I am well acquainted with some of the persons employed as Superintendents and teachers at Port Royal, and have recently been there. Most of them were selected in this city or in Boston by eminent citizens, lay and clerical, and they are not irresponsible in any just sense of the word. They have a social position and character which entitle them to respect, and have received a commission which has been sanctioned by the Government. If their plans are what you describe, I have failed to discover it; and as to the plan formed in this city, I send you a copy, to speak for itself. I respectfully ask you to state how the plans referred to deserve the character you ascribe to them, and upon what evidence you assert that their trial is a subject of sorrow and disgust to the intelligent world. K.
NEW YORK, April 28, 1862.
The above communication, to which we give place with pleasure, is from a gentleman for whom we have the highest personal esteem, but whose name we regret to see connected with several of the most radical propositions of the day. The request made of us is proper, and although we might prefer to let the Port Royal expedition die in peace, we cannot refuse to justify our own remarks. The article to which reference is made, is one in which we spoke of plans of religious instruction of the blacks. We have said that the men and women were irresponsible, and that the plans were nonsensical, wild and fanatical. We did not use the word irresponsible in its legal acceptation. They may be able to pay their debts, or respond in damages to any action brought against them. But they are not responsible to any one for their conduct, the whole plan of action at Port Royal is voluntary, and each teacher pursues his or her own notion of the right doctrine to be taught. If we are wrong, we will correct it; but in the papers sent in by our esteemed friend we fail no find any indication that a teacher at Port Royal who shall instruct the negroes in Unitarianism, or Universalism, or Spiritualism, or Trinitarianism, or in any other form of religious belief, is responsible to any one for the course he or she pursues. We find the first line of the 7th Article of the Plan submitted to us as follows: "Schools and churches shall be established among them" (the negroes.) Now we respectfully suggest, without mentioning names at all, that for an association made up of men whose religious creeds are as diametrically opposed to each other as Peter's and that of Simon the sorcerer, to propose to establish churches among any class of people, is nonsensical and wild, if not tinged with fanaticism. We observe in the list of officers of the Society, Spiritualists, Unitarians, Friends, Episcopalians and members of several other denominations-a catholic society, but not the sort to undertake a missionary work of establishing churches among supposed heathen, or organizing either Sunday or any other schools of religion. So much for the religious aspect of the mission, which was the subject of the article to which our friend has taken exception. Now as to the political. Are these teachers instructed to teach servants their duties to their masters! They are sent to the supposed "freed men" at Port Royal. In all probability, many of these are the servants of loyal masters, or of windows and infants. All of them will be restored to slavery unless confiscated, or freed by some process of law which will be held good in South Carolina, and maintained in the State or United States Courts there. What political instruction is given to these servants should be strictly of the Pauline sort, but our correspondent will hardly tell us that it is such. We find that the chief managers of this association are gentlemen who have published their names heretofore in approval of the doctrine, that the war has absolved the government from all constitutional obligations to the owners of slaves, loyal or disloyal. This doctrine is heretical and pestilential, is subversive of law, order, RELIGION, Constitution and Union. If the teachers of the negroes at Port Royal are responsible to these political heretics for their teachings, to whom are the managers responsible for the disunionism they teach the negroes? Would the society reject a teacher or preacher because he was a Presbyterian, or a Spiritualist, or a Unitarian, or an Infidel, provided he seemed otherwise competent? Would the society dismiss a teacher because he instructed the negroes that they were born free, and that they ought to escape from their masters, if they should happen ever to be restored to them! Do the society require any fundamental religious or political creed as the necessary qualification of a teacher, or church founder?
If not, then the plans are wild, nonsensical and fanatical. No wise man would, on reflection, go into such a society for missionary purposes. We treat this matter very gently. (!) because we believe that some of the gentlemen who have been managers, have gone into it honestly, for philanthropic and benevolent purposes, but they have made a mistake. The mistake of the whole thing is that radical heresy, that anti-slavery and Philo-Negro-ism is all of religion and philanthropy that is necessary for any man, and that the cardinal doctrines of Christianity are all included in, or rendered unnecessary by this new creed. One Sunday School Missionary of the American Union, or one Colporteur of the American Tract Society, responsible to those old and highly trustworthy by institutions, founded on the grand fundamental principles of Christianity, would be worth a thousand missionaries of an "irresponsible" organization, like the one we are now discussing. As to the evidence which our friend asks, we must take leave to say that he has hardly read the newspapers for some weeks past, if he wants information on that subject.
The honest Christian, Pagan, or Mohammedan, desirous of doing good, seeks alliances with men of his own creed, and works with them to attain his end Christians, holding certain fundamental doctrines and differing on others, find it profitable to unite in the dissemination of those truths which they unite in believing. But for Pagans, Mohammedans, and Christians, to unite in establishing churches in a mission station, would appear some what strange to a sensible man; and yet, with due respect to the gentlemen concerned, and without designating which resemble which, we do no injustice to them in saying that this association is made up of quite as widely different classes.-NEW YORK Journal of Commerce.
There is any amount of malice, nonsense and Knavery mixed up in this attack upon the estimable men and women who have so compassionately gone to Port Royal to instruct the poor benighted slave refugees at that place; but the Journal of Commerce is sensitive to our use of such descriptive epithets, deeming them in shocking bad taste; and, therefore these must suffice,-Ed. Lib.
<c02>
GARRET DAVIS AND WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Extract from a speech delivered in the U.S. Senate, April 23, by Hon. Garret Davis, of Kentucky:-
Sir, a change has come over the spirit of Mr. Phillips's dream, and what has produced that change? He thinks he has found his own party in power, in the possession of the executive and the legislative branches of the Government; or if his own party are not in power, they have such skillful and dexterous and able and unscrupulous leaders here that they can cajole the simple, moderate, conservative, constitutional Republicans into their extreme measures, and I expect that he relies very much upon the two Senators now in my eye, one from Massachusetts, (Mr. SUMNER,) and one from New Hampshire, (Mr. HALE.) What does he Low say? Mr. Phillips was arguing recently in this city. ("Did you see him?") I hold no fellowship with him. I disdain to know any such man. Any man who audaciously avows himself a traitor to the Constitution, and is willing to subvert it for the purpose of achieving the emancipation of the slaves, or of dismembering the Southern States and establishing a Southern Confederacy, or for any other purpose under God's heaven, I condemn and denounce. He is a traitor, and his heart is filled with nothing but treason and treasonable projects; he ought so to be treated; and when that man Wendell Phillips was here in this city, lecturing as he did lecture, he ought to have been seized by the President or the Secretary of War, and manacled and confined at Fort Warren or Fort Hamilton. He was a much more wicked and mischievous and dangerous man than may who were so treated. What did he say in his lecture here in Washington?
"Now, I love the Constitution, though my friend, (Dr. Pierpont,) who sits beside me, has heard me curse it a hundred times, and I shall again, if it does not mean justice.
"Oh, it is to receive a new interpretation! I adhere to the old political bible, and to its interpretation by its apostles and the Supreme Court, and I deny and condemn utterly any of your modern jesuitical interpretations of it.
"I have labored nineteen years to take nineteen States out of this Union;"- 
Oh, what a labor!-
"and if I have spent any nineteen years to the satisfaction of my Puritan conscience, it was those nineteen years."
May the Lord deliver this country from any such accursed Puritan conscience as that!
"Unless within twelve months or twenty-four, Maryland is a free State, Delaware, and half Virginia, would to God that building"-
referring to the Capitol-
"with the city of Washington, had been shelled to ashes last July."
What an atrocious sentiment! Suppose a Secesh was to come into this capital or to go to Cincinnati, and was to take such a diabolical position as that, would not the whole world of Black Republicanism, and of Constitutional Republicanism, and of Unionism of every name or grade or dye, without any exception, have risen in condemnation of the miscreant who dared to give utterance to such a sentiment?
Speaking of the origin of the rebellion, Phillips declares that "it was nobody's fault, but that it is the inevitable results of the seeds our fathers planted seventy years ago." And in another place he says of the fathers of the Republic, "they dared not trust in God."
Referring to William Lloyd Garrison, the inveterate disunionist, who kept standing time out of mind at the head of his paper the sentiment that the men who had framed the Constitution had made "an agreement with death, and a covenant with hell," he characterized him as "a man who had done more in the providence of God to shape the fate of this nation than any other one'" and that he (Phillips) "was proud to sit at his (Garrison's) feet." I wish he was sitting there, and would sit there forever, and that they were both in the very central point of the peninsula of Africa. It would be better for the peace of the country, that they and all their admirers and proselytes occupied that locality.

THE ARMY NOT ABOLITION.
Every country has the misfortune of producing a herd of pestiferous publicists. Such a spawn is as natural to an empire as bad excrescences to the most valued trees that grow. The human crowd is as peccable as it is finite: as a consequence, it is as frequent in having a wicked as a noble issue. France was once subverted by its "Philosophers." At the present moment, the entire South of Europe is in danger of a revolution of the most sweeping kind from arrogant pretenders to State wisdom. England has had its Chartists. Let the history of all nations be opened: it will show that not one of them has exemption from the dire evil of bringing forth, now and then, a scurvy progeny of thinkers and writers.
America is by no means free from this wretched fate. We are a young people; but our youth is counterchecked by a wide measure of fecundity in dangerous citizens. Like for older government, the UNITED STATES have their issue of frothy cogitators whom no reason can silence, and in whom suicide would be a national benefit. It is unnecessary to mention that it is the abolitionists who constitute this tribe of persons. The existing rebellion is chiefly the result of their unbridled fanaticism. The fatal doctrine of secession has prevailed in the South for a long period; but the rabid abolition sentiment of the North acted on it as the tropical sun does on the torpid snake; and peace the country cannot enjoy until the same sentiment shall be driven out of life. The revolt has two causes. The worshippers of the negro, and those who hold the poor creature in slavery. No argument is needed to show that at complete return to the recent prosperous condition of things is impossible until both factions are put down. We have an army in the South. There is direct need of another in the North. The career of Phillips, Garrison, Greeley, Beecher, and Brownson is quite as treasonable as that of any of the public men of the South. It is a weakness not to bind to the law the enemies of the Constitution wherever they can be seized. The proper remedy to meet the curse of having a spawn of pestiferous publicists is the iron arm of the State. Wherever these people are permitted to carry on their designs, they soon make of that arm a brittle twig.
But the just public temper of the Republic is now aroused; and we may hope that the patriotism which has created an army of six hundred thousand men against "Secessia," will be equally fortunate in the formation of means for the trampling down of the abolition brawlers who infest the North. A martial law is absolutely needed against all that they have caused more public disunion than all their private happiness is worth; that they have done millions of times more damage to the enterprises of the
<c03>
nation than they can ever liquidate; and that they occasioned more manly, soldierly blood to be spilled than the lives of them all could ever repay.
The present object of the abolitionists is to disseminate in all quarters, that it is for the suppression of slavery our grand army is in the field. This is as cunning in design as it is gross in falsehood. Were such a principle successfully spread in the South, from that unfortunate part of the country, all union sentiment would disappear; and as a consequence, the Government should centuple its efforts against the rebellion: an increase of means, which, very probably, would have the effect of uprooting Southern slavery; and this is the very wretched thing the abolitionists want to achieve. The fanaticism of these people is not without malicious cunning.
It is plain that whatever increases disunion, or the anti-UNION sentiment, is high treason. Now here is anti-unionism deliberately and extensively taught. For if there is anything which can augment the rebellion of the South, it is the conviction that the Army of the North has for its aim the ruin of the main Southern Institution. When a people are satisfied that the principal thing they have is, in its destruction, the very ground on which they are warred against, nothing can conquer them. The abolitionists are, therefore, in their representations of the army, downright traitors, While Cameron was in office, we had no trust that merited measures would ever be taken against them. we hope the country will not be disappointed.
The abolitionists have expounded many a falsehood: the strongest that can be laid to their charge is that of saying that our army has the overthrow of slavery for its end. If the army entertained that idea, they would throw down their arms. This is absolutely true of the Irish troops-the bravest men in the campaign; it is equally true of ninety-nine in the hundred of all our men. This war is not for the black, but for the integrity of the nation. To expatiate on the reverse, is to misrepresent the President, to increase disunion in the South, and to disaffect to army. Evidently this is hydra-headed treason. Let the President and the army put it down. There is no other remedy.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.

Selections.
EXPULSION OF THE COLORED POPULATION.
The World contends that the North, as well as the South, is determined to root out and drive off all free blacks. The African race may live among us as slaves, but they shall not live here as free men! The World says this is the unalterable purpose of the American people all over the land. If so, If so, it is a purpose truly diabolical, and the people who entertain it deserve to be exterminated from under the face of heaven. But we deny that there is any such general purpose or wish. A miserable pro-slavery press endeavors by every possible means to enkindle and aggravate the prejudice against color, and then to make use of this prejudice as an excuse for injustice. The World is the fit ally of the herald and Express in this fiendish work. The assertion that black and white cannot occupy the same country, except by keeping up the hellish institution of human slavery, is a libel on all history, and on our own experience. What more useful, thrifty, industrious, peaceful class has New York city than the colored people? It is everywhere the same. What would be the cotton States without them? Does the World propose to send across the ocean, and import four millions of East Indian and Chinese coolies to take their places? Or does it propose to send northern emigrants to cultivate those hot, ungenial cotton and rice-swamps, which are certain death to all except laborers born within the tropics? The plan of depopulating our southern States by exterminating the blacks, is the wildest, wickedest scheme that was ever broached in a Christian community. Happily, it can never be carried into execution except to a very limited extent. All the resources of the nation would be inadequate to such a gigantic undertaking. But it may be prosecuted far enough to cause untold misery. It may be prosecuted just far enough to keep the negro under a perpetual ban, and to excite and aggravate those cruel caste prejudices which the system of slavery has engendered.
The plan which the World recommends is this: that "every slave boy on arriving at the age of twenty-one, and every slave girl on arriving at the age of eighteen, should be colonized abroad."
"After eighteen years, the youngest slave females now born would reach the specified age," and "before 1890 the last slave in this Republic would have been born, and slavery itself would disappear, as those died off who, being over the ages specified, remained in the country."
Talk not of the cruelties of slave-masters after this! We have heard of the separation of families, children torn from their parents as soon as they were grown up, and sold off, to see them no more forever; but for cold blooded atrocity, deliberate and premeditated cruelty on a gigantic scale, we never heard of anything to equal the proposal of this northern religious editor! Tearing away slaves from their kindred and homes is a disreputable business even with slaveholders; they would indignantly deny that such cruelties are practised save in exceptional cases, or under circumstances of strong necessity. But here s a Christian editor whose nerves do not shrink from the wholesale application of such torture to four millions of human hearts! Oh no, says this kid-glove casuist, "it would be no greater hardship for them to be separated from the place of their birth, than it has been for the hundreds of thousands of young men and women who have emigrated to our shores from Europe, here to commence a new career." As if hardship or sacrifices voluntarily undertaken, furnished a parallel or apology for hardships enforced by violence, ties sundered by the arm of power, human rights struck down by an act of despotism! How would our spiritual doctors be pleased to have this kind of reasoning applied to themselves? Hundreds of their sons leave them for California, Europe, or a life at sea; therefore it could be "no great hardship" if government should enforce such a separation by its own decree! Thousands of our citizens banish themselves for the sake of gain; therefore Congress might justly banish thousands more! Many toil like slaves, and kill themselves from over-exertion; therefore it would be no great hardship if government should make them serve at the same toil till life was exhausted! It is the very essence of slavery. Men who thus bid defiance to the found amental principles of justice have no business to take part, either by voice or vote, in the government of the republic. They are not rightfully citizens; they falsify the citizen's oath, and should be regarded as aliens. The description, by Senator Wade, of Mr. Vallandigham, as "a man who never had any sympathy with this republic, but whose every breath is devoted to its destructions," applies to all who war upon the principle of equal rights. In our experiment of republican government, they have neither lot nor part.-American Baptist.
<c04>
FREE NEGROES IN THE NORTH.
The setting free of a few thousand slaves, by act of Congress, in the District of Columbia, and by the presence of our army in various rebel States, has become the occasion of a new demonstration on the part of those afflicted with a cutaneous horror of a portion of the human race. Petitions are being industriously circulated in various portions of the Free States, praying for laws to shut out such of the freed blacks as may choose to come into those States, and prohibit, by penal enactments, their immigration or settlement.
To a man who believes the negro has no right to live at all -that he should be an outlaw entirely, and be hunted from the face of the earth, like a noxious wild beast, such enactments may seem to be just and right. But it seems to us they cannot be defended on any other ground. These negroes must go somewhere-the devastation of war and other circumstances make it impossible for them to remain where they are-they must seek a home, either temporary or permanent, where they can earn and obtain a living. It is the sheerest inhumanity to deny them the privilege of entering the only refuge that is open to them. To compel them to remain in a devastated region, or to hang around the outskirts of camps, or be the prey of kidnappers and scoundrels of the alternative presented. This is what Northern Legislatures in the nineteenth century are asked to do in the name of freedom, of civilization, of white labor.
Six hundred thousand able-bodied, mostly laboring men, are in our armies. It is not probable that the whole number of contrabands exceeds one-tenth of that number. Of these, possibly one-half, or thirty thousand, may find their way to the Free States. To talk of the free labor of the North, just drained of six hundred thousand laborers, suffering from the competition of thirty thousand negroes, is refreshingly absurd.
We last week alluded, however, to the cardinal fallacy upon which the objection to the influx of new laborers is founded, and endeavored to make it apparent. We repeat, that it is idleness, not competition, which the laborer has to dread. Paradoxical as it may seem, it is nevertheless true, that the greater the proportion of laboring men, that is, the greater the "competition" of labor, the better off is the laborer. The reason of this is that the laborer supports the idle man. If there were no idle men, the laborer would only have to support himself.
The absence of six hundred thousand laborers upon the battle-field may not depress the wages of the laboring man at home, but it will assuredly increase the price he will have to pay for the necessaries and the comforts of life.
The laborer is also a consumer. The laborer gives in return for what he consumes, something that has an intrinsic value. For what he has, the rest of community receives pay that is in itself valuable, and supplies its wants But the idle man either does not pay at all, or he pays in money which has little or no intrinsic value, but is only valuable as a means of exchange. The more there are of such men as this in the world, the worse it is off. But the more laborers there are, engaged in useful avocations, the better for everybody, and the more the necessaries, the comforts and the luxuries of life are placed within reach of the million.
There need be no apprehension from the influx of a few thousand freed negroes. They will not one-tenth fill the void left by our soldiers. Nor will their competition trouble the white laborer. They will consume as well as produce, and the more they earn, the more they will spend.
We do not believe the petitions against them are the spontaneous results of alarm in the minds of working men. They are got up by politicians for political purpose-chiefly to promote a revival of the Cutaneous Democracy. We expect to see that party taking ground, within six months, that the negro has no right to live, except as a slave, and that he ought to be banished from the country of his birth, because, forsooth, he is black.-Delhi (N.Y.) Republican.

THE NEGROES AND THE NORHTERN STATES.
We give below an extract from an article in the Philadelphia Press, upon the subject of the emancipation of slaves, and what should be their future course:
"Many persons entertain the opinion that if any considerable number of the Southern slaves obtain their freedom, they will necessarily emigrate to the Northern States, and that thus a large proportion of our white laborers will be thrown out of employment, and heavy taxes or other expenditures caused by the necessity of providing for indolent refugees. It requires, however, but a slight examination of the subject to see that this conjecture is not well founded. There has been, in all our past history, but very little voluntary emigration northward of colored men. The Africans, like all other races, prefer congenial climes, and they will not venture from them unless compelled to do so by very powerful motives. It has been a rare occurrence for any of the large body of free negroes who reside in the States south of Mason and Dixon's line, to journey northward. As a general rule, only flying fugitive slaves or those whose freedom was imperilled by the system of hostile State legislation that has of late years been commenced in the South, have ventured on this experiment. A striking proof of this fact is furnished by the census of 1850. Of the 53,000 free blacks of Pennsylvania, only 15,000 were not born on our soil. Of the 54,333 free blacks of Virginia, only 533 were emigrants; of the 74,723 in Maryland, only 1,367; of the 18,073 in Delaware, only 1,141.
It is thus clearly shown that they are not a migratory race, and that there was very little disposition to emigrate even to Pennsylvania, notwithstanding her contiguity to the homes of a large body of free blacks. The causes for this are numerous. The Southern States comprise one of the largest agricultural districts in the world, and nearly all the labor that has heretofore been performed there has been done by Africans. Their labor will be as much needed hereafter as heretofore, and no change that may be made in the conditions upon which it is to be performed will dispense with the power and present necessity of its employment. Practically, in the Southern States the negroes find a climate agreeable and healthy, and a demand for their labor,-in the Northern States an uncongenial climate, and little, if any demand, for their services. No large body of men have ever emigrated for the sake of emigration-and particularly when they could derive no absolute benefit from the change, and when they had no strong love of novelty nor spirit of enterprise to impel them."
This is a common-sense view of the subject, and thus a ridiculous bugbear is disposed of which has frightened so many unreflecting persons.
<c05>
WHO AT THE NORTH SUPPORT AND UPHOLD SLAVERY.
The fact is as demonstrable as any problem in mathematics, that the adherents of the old Democratic party at the North are the supporters and upholders of slavery. It is useless for the pro-slavery Democratic leaders to pretend to the people, that they are unfriendly to the institution of slavery; their acts, when in power, prove exactly the contrary; their professions of dislike of human bondage are all a sham. Let us proceed to the testimony as to the truthfulness of these statements.
The subject of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia has been agitated at intervals, dating back many years. The constitutional power of Congress, of exclusive legislation over the District of Columbia, has never been denied by men of any party at the North; because to deny such power would be a plain contradiction of the Constitution itself. No Democratic paper or politician of any standing at the North has ever had the hardihood to claim, that slavery in our national capital was desirable, but, on the contrary, has always professed to hold, that chattel slavery in the District of Columbia was uncongenial with the spirit of our institutions, and its peaceful removal desirable.
The sincerity of Democratic professions of opposition to slavery was a few days ago put to the test. The bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia was opposed wholly by men in Congress who profess to be Democrats. When the final vote was taken, twenty-two Representatives from the free States voted against putting an end to slavery in the national capital. Here Democracy, so called, gave a practical exhibition of its love of slavery, notwithstanding all its professions of loving freedom better. Let no one hereafter deny that those who lead the old Democratic party are wedded to slavery; that they cling to it as-a vital element in sustaining their distinctive organization. All the rallying point that party now has is slavery: were it to abandon that, it would have no cementing bond of union left, and would die at once.
The action of the Democratic members of Congress, in both Houses, admits of no other construction than that here given it. The act abolishing slavery-in the District of Columbia is free from the objections which the most conservative men of any party in the free States have been accustomed to make in past years. It violates no rights of property, even admitting slaves to be property. It provides compensation, which is believed to be ample, for those who are recognized as the owners of slaves; it takes away no slaveholder's alleged property, without paying for it. The people of the District of Columbia have repeatedly petitioned Congress for the passage of an emancipation act. Why, then, was the bill opposed by Democratic Representatives from the free States? The constitutional power of Congress to remove slavery from the District not being denied, and the objection to taking what is alleged to be the property of slaveholders without compensation, being removed, the question before Congress was simply this:-Which is the more desirable in the national capital-freedom or slavery? Those who believe slavery in the District of Columbia to be a great wrong and a national disgrace, of course voted for its extinguishment. On the other hand, those who did not believe slavery in the District to be a wrong must, it is fair to infer, have held the contrary opinion, viz.: that slavery in the national capital is desirable, a national blessing, and ought to be perpetuated. In accordance with this latter belief, twenty-two Representatives from the free States put themselves on the record. Let all who love freedom better than slavery make a note of this act of the representatives of the Northern Democracy.-Kenosha (Wisconsin) Telegraph.

DEMOCRATIC TREASON.
A Massachusetts soldier, writing to the Newbury-port(Mass) Herald, utters this ominous threat:-
"Our rifles are coming, and we are in readiness to march. We are to be attached to King's division. You may bet one thing, though, that McClellan will send us to the right place. By the way, what is the government thinking of, that it don't suspend the New York Tribune, confiscate the office, and hang Greeley? Is he aware how popular the General is with us? Is he and the wretched rabble at his heels aware of our strength? What if Roman and French history should repeat itself, and we, the soldiers, should say who should be the next President? "
A paragraph embodying this threat of some miserable traitor is going the rounds of the Democratic press. The leading Democratic newspapers have repeatedly intimated their willingness to see the government of the United States transformed into a military despotism, provided slaveholding vengeance could be thereby wreaked on anti-slavery men; and hence we are not surprised at the very general appearance of this threat. Vaporing brigadiers have threatened to turn Congress out of doors by the bayonet, and fools, or traitors, have been ready to applaud to the echo.
Such threats are a species of treason. The soldier-or the officer that makes them is a dangerous man, and unworthy to serve his country. If the great body of our soldiers were no better patriots than this Massachusetts traitor, the attempt would be made to carry that threat into execution. Bui they have read history to far better purpose than he has, and they are in arms to preserve freedom-no to destroy it. We can tell our Democratic contemporaries that if could bring their coveted vengeance upon the head of every anti-slavery man by the sacrifice of the liberties of this nation on the shrine of military ambition, it would be the dearest bought gratification they ever experienced. They may desire it now, but, fortunately, their desire will not be gratified.-Delhi (N.Y.) Republican.

THE STRUGGLE IN AMERICA.
In America, the pro-slavery war of the North continues. The descendants of the Puritans give up their children and their money; and rejoice to get well beaten by sea, lest they should damage slavery by land.
What is man? has been a solemn question. But what is, sometimes, the absence of a man?
English anti-slavery chuckles in the idea, that there will be something like a compromise, after all Shattered as the main fabric may be, it hopes to see enough saved out of the pieces, to authorize it assault on Mrs. Beecher Stowe. It means to point to these, and say, "See there, what she, rash woman, would have done away with!"
There is a just caution everywhere. The foxhunter cherishes his fox in proper places, and would break out furiously against man or woman, who should propose the abolition of the race. Satan himself would be a loss to those whose business is to exorcise him with book and candle.
It is astonishing how much men will pay for a hobby; quite independently of any use, profit, advantage, or increase of felicity anywhere, except in the gratification of a diseased fancy, often at other
<c06>
people's cost. Sum up now, when this mass of blundering has by hook or by crook been brought to a conclusion, the amount that has been paid for the whistle! Calculate the hearths that have been made desolate, and the proceeds of industry which might have been made available for comfort, and see what is to be found on the other side of the account. Somebody set down as their hobby, that is would be pleasing, agreeable, what little boys and girls call nice, to restore the Constitution which has been smashed to pieces, to its state before the smash. Every old woman would do so with her pickle-pot, if she had not better wit. In the first place, what chance was there of its being accomplished? If violets plucked the sweetest showers can ne'er make grow again, what chance was there that any gardener could stick the fragments into their old places, instead of making clean conveyance of the origin of the mischief? A baby thought it would be nice to try; but had the baby no guardian, no thoughtful bonne to guide his erring mind? Suppose a danger of another kind, and he is pursued by an evil beast, with ample start and time to reach a point where danger was at an end. Whereupon our baby experimentalist, moved by reasons which, when he is eaten, he cannot be asked to explain, undertakes to think how pleasant it would be to try if he can do it on one leg. It is difficult to deny that this is what has been done by the triflers with Providence in America.
General Fremont's “appointment has given great offence to the moderate party." An officer teased Louis the Fourteenth for promotion. "Your regiment," said the monarch "gives more trouble than all the army besides." "Sire," replied the officer, "the enemy says just the same."-Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser.

PROGRESS OF FREE SENTIMENTS.
For months past, the people beyond the mountains have been determined to cut loose from the Old Dominion, and from a new State, to be called KANAWHA. They have gone so far as to hold a Convention to draft a Constitution, but this Convention was so far behind the age that it wanted Kanawha to come into the Union as a slave State, and actually refused to incorporate in its draft of a Constitution a provision for the emancipation of the slaves. This was old fogyism indeed! But when the leaders failed them, the people themselves took the advance. No sooner was this action of the Convention known than they took the matter in hand, and by an overwhelming vote have declared their determination to east off forever the curse of slavery. The result seems to astonish the people themselves. The papers of Western Virginia Confess that a Revolution is sweeping along the Alleghanies, and, like a flood in the Ohio, bearing down dead wood, rotten logs, and old stumps of trees, it is clearing away the decayed institution from every part of that great valley watered by the Ohio and its tributaries. The Wellsburg Herald, one of the local papers, says:
"Was there ever a greater revolution in public sentiment than has been wrought in the public mind of Western Virginia, during the last very few months, on this very subject? The late election tells the tale. In counties where, eighteen months ago, the venerable Ruffner was treated with contumely and insult for having years before been the author of a pamphlet advocating gradual emancipation, the people, after one year's tuition in the rough school of war, endorse his views by a vote which is wonderful for its unanimity. In counties where, a few months ago, to question the divinity of slavery was to court at least political martyrdom, the sovereigns have voted 100 to 1 to get rid of the institution. When the official vote of last Thursday comes to be published, those who have doubted the liberalizing effect of the war upon the minds of the people on this subject will be astounded. Preston rolls up her 1500 majority for a free State; Wood her 1300 to 13; Monongalia, Marshall, Wetzel, Tyler, Harrison, the home of Carlile, and Marion, the den of the Haymonds, the Neesons, and of more traitors than any other county of equal population can boast, all uniformly gave tremendous majorities for the new Constitution, and, where a vote was taken, for gradual emancipation.
Verily, Slavery is doomed in Western Virginia from the date of that vote; and, unless the educationary process be quickly stopped, it will not be long before the Valley, Piedmont, and Tide Water will experience the same startling phenomenon."
If indeed the Revolution is once begun in earnest, it will be apt to go on. "Revolutions never go backward" is an old proverb. The movement inaugurated among the sturdy farmers on the sides of the Alleghanies, may rise high enough to break over the barrier of the Blue Ridge and descend upon Eastern Virginia. Most certainly will it roll down the valley of the Ohio into Kentucky. Thus we believe, before many years will all the Border States become-what the District of Columbia now is-delivered from the curse of slavery, Free, and Free Forever!-New York Evangelist.

JOEL PARKER AND CHARLES SUMNER.
The article in the North American Review, alluded to in another article, has been published in pamphlet from, bearing the name of Joel Parker, a professor in the Cambridge Law School, as its author. The knowledge of the authorship entirely removes the surprise we felt as to the character of the contemptible attack on Mr. Sumner. Mr. Parker belongs to that class of politicians who have always been hostile to the anti-slavery sentiment of Massachusetts, and to the men whom she has chosen to represent that sentiment in the national councils. He was one of those who, at the period when the Fugitive Slave Law was being discussed, exerted all his powers to prove its constitutionality, and to deaden the moral sentiment of the people against that odious and inhuman act. He is a fitting person to make a dastardly attack on Mr. Sumner. His assault, published in the Review as an apparently can did and disinterested discussion of an important subject, is merely intended to create a prejudice against Mr. Sumner, and is now distributed in its present from to aid in that effort, with the idea that its previous appearance in the Review will blind the people at large to the fact of its being anything more than a mere electioneering document.
This is a part of the plot which the proslavery politicians in this State have been at work upon all winter to supersede Mr. Sumner in the senate.
They will be prosecuting their efforts during the Sumner with the hope of securing a majority in the Legislature opposed to Mr. Sumner's re-election. We dare say that Mr. Parker has an itching for a seat in the Senate. His name has, we believe, been before suggested for the place. But the plot won't work. The people of Massachusetts are too wide awake to be deceived by any such devices as those which Mr. Jeff. Davis's allies in this State are concocting. Neither Mr. Parker nor any other politician of that stamp can supplant Mr. Sumner.-New Bedford Standard.
If slavery were abolished, what would be left to fight about?. Then, knock it in the head!
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the had, to all the inhabitants thereof"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from  its being true that the States where slavery  exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war power of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IN CAN BE INTERFREAD WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory,"-J.Q. ADAMS.


<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DISUNION PLOTTINGS IN EUROPE.
The National Intelligencer publishes a very interesting series of contraband letters which were found on board the Confederate steamer Calhoun, captured by our blockading squadron as she was in the act of running the blockade of entrance to the Mississippi river on the 23d of January last. The central figure in the group of letter writers thus brought to the knowledge of the public, is Thomas Butler King, agent for some Georgia steamer scheme in Europe, but who appears to have devoted all his time for the year past to cause of the Southern Confederacy. The correspondence is of a very miscellaneous nature, but some of it throws such valuable glimpses on the most audacious iniquity of modern times that we make such extracts as out space will allow.
The first glimpse is of the brassy assurance which distinguished the rebels on the opening of President Lincoln's administration. Mr. A. E. Cochran writes from Macon, Georgia, March 5, 1861:-
"Nothing new, Most people read Lincoln's inaugural as a 'no fight' measure, and few care a 'cuss' whether it is or no." 
The next is like unto it, but more practical, being from the private and confidential letter of J. Cowles, New York, April 10, to Mr. King, viz:-
"This day Fort Sumter will be attacked, and before this reaches you Pickens-them all the Slave States will rush together, a separation will of course follow, and the Confederacy acknowledged; then capital will follow, and we can carry our plans."
Now we cross the water, and find Mr. J. M. Vernon writing from Brussels to Mr. King: "I have been on the continent, and operating for our commercial independence since last June." That is, June, 1860, before the Presidential campaign had fairly begun.
Beverly Tucker, who is still in Pairs, wrote in June last, and showed the private sentiments of the rebels toward John Bull, as follows:-
"We have whipped the scoundrels in three instances, and, what is worse for them though better for us, we have proved already their utter inefficiency to cope with us. Not the least gratifying element is the threatening aspect of England and the United States, or rather the rotten Government at Washington. God grant that it may lead to a rupture, and that 'John Bull' may blow their blockade sky high. If he does this I will forgive him a load of his self-conceit, arrogance and hollow philanthropy."
A Mr. E. Peirse, who has three or four letters in this interesting batch, tells Mr. King from Dieppe how to get the London Times, and is pleased to say: "I should not wonder if the Western States secede, and that 'Maine' joins Canada." In the next letter this "wonder"-ful man comes to the conclusion that "the war will break down in the North for want of funds."
The two next correspondents of Mr. King are "Haldeman," (a Pennsylvanian, we believe), and a son of the late Com. Claxton, of Maryland-but they say nothing of consequence. Another writer, evidently of some note, under the signature of "Maryland," writes, apparently from London, in regard to the recognition of the Southern Confederacy:-
"I feel authorized, after having had two friendly conferences with a prominent member of the Foreign Office, and one with one of the most, if not the most, influential of the confidential advisers of the Sovereign, to give it as my belief that but little hesitation and delay wound be met be met with in attaining this desired result."
The same writer cautions Mr. King against a young South Carolinian in Paris named Mortimer, says he does so on the authority of his father, "who is heart and soul with the South." Loyal people will be glad to hear more about this young Mortimer.
The next correspondent on the carpet is Mr. J. L, O'Sullivan, who sent the National Intelligencer, last spring, a patriotic Union ode, to the tune of the "Star Spangled Banner." In August he was ready to do anything for the rebel cause, though chained down at Lisbon "by absolute want of means." Mr. O'Sullivan was the late United States Minister to Portugal.
Following him comes "Ch. Haussollier," France, whose note is only important for the statement it contains, that one of Mr. King's secession pamphlets was published at the request of Michael Chevalier, the eminent French champion of free trade, and for the following:-
"I need not recall to your memory what the Minister told you in one of the interviews you had; it was too gratifying for you to have forgotten it."
The revelations next turn their light upon the British Consul at Havana, Mr. Crawford, who is pronounced by one of Mr. King's correspondents "a thought Southerner." This, and doubtless other convincing testimony, makes such an impression on Mr. King that he actually writes to Earl Russell, December 6, 1861, saying of Mr. Crawford:-
"I therefore beg leave to assure your lordship, most respectfully, that her Majesty's Government could not select a more acceptable person to be her Majesty's Minister to reside near the Government of the Confederate States."
This is the height of impudence. Still, Mr. Crawford is as likely to be British Minister to the Southern Confederacy as anybody else.
We have seen with what assurance the correspondence began-but it ends amusingly enough to gratify the most indignant loyalist. All these plotting diplomatists were needy in the pocket, thought rich in visions of Southern glory. We have observed Mr. O'Sullivan chained down at Lisbon by "absolute want of means." But he is not alone. J. M. Vernon is "entirely out of money." Haussollier begs that the future Southern Emassador will remember his services. M. Calhoun says the foreign bankers "will take no drafts on the South at all," and that he never saw such times before, though he had been through some hard ones. R. Mitchell duns Mr. King, and says, "I did not expect you would let me support your expenses." J. N. Beach is trying to negotiate a loan for Mr. King. And to cap all, Robert Hutchinson wishes Mr. Yancey to give him the address of "Mr. Thomas Butler King. of Georgia, U. S.," adding:-
"Perhaps I ought to state that I have instructions to direct my solicitor to arrest him for considerable debt."
Perhaps these little facts, wherever the rebel agents in Europe were known, much more than off-set all their gorgeous representations and artful devices.-Boston Journal.

THE DELUSIONS OF ONE YEAR AGO.
As a specimen of the absurd calculations upon which the Secessionists one year ago initiated the present deplorable war, we republish the following article from the Mobile Evening News of that period, copied from that paper into the Columbia (South Carolina) Guardian. No comment is necessary:-
"There are now, as nearly as can be estimated, upward of one hundred thousand organized and armed men in the seven Confederate States, under orders of anxiously awaiting them to spring to the post of danger at the word of Jefferson Davis. Within eight or ten days time at the furthest he can concentrate sixty thousand of these men, the best soldiers in the world, at any point on the northern border, and hurl this splendid army like an avalanche upon the foe. If the battle ground be in Virginia or Maryland, as it probably will, the grand army of the Confederacy will be doubled or trebled by the rallying hosts of these States. We have reason to believe that hundreds of companies are now on the move, or will be within twenty-four hours, all bound somewhere. Such is our immediate war power.
Should we move on Washington, does the enemy expect to hold it against us? To hold it against and army of a hundred thousand men, and a hostile local population? Large as the telegraphic reports from the land of the enemy read, it will be at least a month before Lincoln can muster into service, and concentrate into an army, a hundred thousand men. We are ready, he is not. Our people, naturally so inclined, have been making soldiers of themselves for months. His people have been doing nothing of the sort, and are not naturally so inclined. Our ordinances of secession were really the notes of our warlike preparation. Their first note of preparation was the cannonade of Charleston. We have had three months the start of them, and are ready-they are not.
Months ago the minds of our people had settled resolvedly to meet any issue. Now the people of the North are in all the wild panic and confusion of war's first alarms. We confront them, a cool, collected foe, that will never give them time to recover from their surprise. We are ready for action-they are getting ready to prepare to act. They may
<c02>
raise plenty of men-men who prefer enlisting to starvation, scurvy fellow from the back slums of cities, whom Falstaff would not have marched though Coventry with; but these recruits are not soldiers, least of all soldiers, to meet the hot-blooded, thoroughbred impetuous men of the South. Trencher soldiers, who enlisted to war on their rations, not on men, they are fellows who do not know the breech of a musket from its muzzle, and had rather filch a handkerchief than fight an enemy in manly open combat. These are the levied 'forces' whom Lincoln suddenly arrays as candidates for the honor of being slaughtered by gentlemen-such as Mobile sent to battle yesterday. Let them come South, and will put our negroes to the dirty work of killing them. But they will not come South. Not a wretch of them will live on this side of the border longer than it will take us to reach the ground and drive them over.
Mobile is sending forth to wage this war of independence the noblest and bravest of her sons. It is expensive, extravagant to put such material against the riff-raff of mercenaries whom the abolition power has called out to war upon us. We could almost hope that a better class of men would fall into the Northern ranks, that our gentlemen might find foemen worthy of their steel, whom it would be more difficult to conquer, and whose conquering would be more honorable. For the present, however, we need not expect to find any foe worth fighting, with the exceptions of a few regiments, for the North is just getting ready, and will likely be whipped before it is ready."

A RIGHTEOUS RETRIBUTION.
-, Wednesday, April 30, 1862.
"At the latest accounts from Fredericksburg, General McDowell was occupying as his headquarters the house of Mr. Lacy, immediately opposite that city."
This paragraph in a late morning paper brings to my mind some incidents connected with that house, which I trust will be interesting to your readers, and which, to my own mind, are not without their lesson. 
This mansion to which I refer bears the name of Chatham, and was immediately at the end of Chatham bridge which was named from it. The bridge is now in ruins. The mansion was built by Judge Coalter, one of the best of the old Virginia school of gentlemen, a Judge of the District in which he lived, and a lawyer of high attainments. He was a man of great wealth, and selected this beautiful eminence for the noble mansion which under his own supervision was reared upon it. Chatham was long known as the seat of refinement and hospitality, and there probably has never been a gentleman or statesman of the old regime who has not been entertained within its almost classic walls. 
More than twenty years ago this old and beloved citizen died, bequeathing his entire wealth and estate to his excellent widow. She was a woman of generous nature and of the purest piety. Among other property left her were a larger number of negroes whom she always treated with kindness.
During her life her youngest daughter, a lady of great beauty, was married to Mr. Horace Lacy. To him, therefore, the property fell on the death of Mrs. Coalter, which happened a few years ago at a very advanced age.
Mrs. Coalter had during many years previous to her death, declared that she should set her slaves free when she died. For this purpose she called in a near relative of hers, who was lawyer, and employed him in writing out her will. Now this lawyer, who resides in Fredericksburg and is well known there, set a wishful eye upon these negroes. It seemed to him quite a desperate thing to see ninety-five well-conditioned chattels going out of the State. But then, how could they be of any importance to him, or to any but Lacy? He hit upon this expedient: He persuaded the old lady to put it in her will that these negroes might have the choice of becoming free, or of selecting masters or mistresses from among her blood relations. There are so many hot ploughshares to be traversed before Freedom can be reached, that it is not be wondered at if the alternative presented itself to this lawyer's mind as that likeliest to befall these ninety-five negroes.
But when the old lady was dead and the will was opened, Lacy was inconsolable for the loss of these chattels. Until at length some legal Mephistophiles-and his tribe has not decreased in Fredericksburg-whispered it into Lacy's ear that all was not lost. These negroes were by the will given their choice of freedom or masters; but by the laws of Virginia, a slave, not being a citizen, had no right to choose.
Incredible as it may seem, this infernal scoundrel, Horace Lacy, seized on this point and subverted the life-long wishes of his mother-in-law as to the freedom of these slaves. The writer of this has heard Mrs. Coalter speak with gratitude of the affection of her slaves, and express her determination to set them free. The Circuit Court sustained Lacy's claim, and the matter was taken up to the Supreme Court of Virginia, which also sustained the law of the case-the ablest Judge on the bench, R. C. L. Moncure, bringing in a minority opinion of great power against the flagrant wrong. His opinion was vehement and bold, and was all the more important because he resided on a farm but a short distance from Chatham.
When Lacy had thus defrauded these ninety-five human beings of their freedom, which without an exception they had decided to "choose," he had to complete the diabolical programme by selling them South, as he was afraid to live within their reach. 
It is to the credit of the Fredericksburgians that Lacy became very unpopular on account of this transaction. In a late effort to be elected to the Rebel Legislature he was utterly defeated, despite his wealth and connections. He then got an appointment as aid to Gen. Smith, a shrewd old lawyer of Fredericksburg remarking that it was an illustration of Dr. Johnson's remark, that "patriotism is the last resort of scoundrels."
It is some gratification to know the sagacious layer who drew up the will never got a single chattel by the transaction.
It is on this Lacy's estate and in his domicil that Gen. McDowell is making himself comfortable. Don't be nervous, General! There's not a gentleman in the neighborhood around you who does not regard it as a piece of "poetic justice." And if by any means some young or aged negroes shall be found on the estate, whom Lacy thought non doli capaces, you may be sure they have a holy claim to liberty! Let this Rebel Aid's mansion and fine grounds be confiscated, and, side by side with the farm where Washington was reared, it will serve as a warning to the old Burg that Justice still lives with her balances and her sword.
By the way, would not the field in which lies the grave and unfinished monument of Washington's mother be a fit place for the encampment of the army of the Union when they shall cross the Rappahannock?-Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.

CONFISCATION.
In dealing with confiscation, we propose to approach it as we do every question this war has created. The time has come for us to accept or reject it; and in the way we signify either our acceptance or rejection, we shape the policy of this war. If confiscation is wrong in theory, then the war is wrong. If we do not adopt every means to crush the rebellion, we indirectly sustain it. A Virginia planter, in York county, has a hundred negroes-a large farm-overflowing barns, spades, axes, and hatchets. General Magruder wishes to throw up an embankment. The Planter sends his negroes to make ditches and breastworks-furnishes the tools, and feeds the regiments encamped behind them from his granary. He not only gives Magruder the means of war, but sustains his men in making it. This we consider open rebellion. In the course of time our armies advance. The planter's home comes within our lines. We know he is an enemy to our cause. We know that he has sustained our enemies in the prosecution of open and offensive war. Common sense would say, release his negroes from the bonds by which they have been made enemies; place him in arrest as traitor; open his barns to our hungry soldiers, and take away all power to be the enemy has been. This would be retribution for crime committed, and indemnity against crime that might be committed. Yet this would be confiscation; and, on a proposition to make it a law, every Democrat in the House votes nay, and a large number of other members timidly steal into the committee-rooms, and refuse to go upon the record.-Philadelphia Press.
CONFISCATION. It is reported that Hon. Horace Maynard, who has just returned to Washington from Tennessee, declares himself in favor of stringent confiscation act against the rebels. It is noteworthy that Parson Brownlow, Major Polk, and other leading Tennessee Unionists take the same ground.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1862.
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION for 1862 will be held in the city of Boston, on WEDNESDAYT and THURSDAY, May 28th and 29th, in the MELODEON, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., of Wednesday.
The New England Convention, annually held for the past thirty years, (with but a single exception,) has been one of the most effective instrumentalities for arousing the people of this land to a just sense of the great Abomination of Slavery. Its yearly sessions have always been largely attended,-not only all the New England States being represented therein, but usually several of the Western and Middle States also. Never before was it called to meet under such cheering circumstances. The work of the Convention is far from being done, nor can any opponent of slavery safely slacken hand or zeal at this critical hour. But God is now vouchsafing such signs to this nation, such tokens of his power and presence, as should serve mightily to encourage every friend of Freedom, and bring us all to the great crowning labors of the Anti-Slavery cause with redoubled energy and in redoubled numbers.
Let the anti-slavery men and women of New England, then, gather once more in their Annual Convention. Once more let them indicate to the long-slumbering but now awakening land, to a guilty but haply a repenting people, the only Way of Peace, of Safety, and of National Honor. Once more let the words of Justice, and Freedom, for all, be echoed from the hills and valleys of New England, until they join the swelling voices of the Centre and the Great West; and the trembling, hoping slave shall hear the glad tidings, proclaiming his deliverance, his redemption, and his acknowledged manhood.
All friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, in every part of the country, are invited to attend.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec'y.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The opening session of the twenty-ninth anniversary of this Society was held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever's) in New York, on Tuesday forenoon, May 6,—a most intelligent, sympathetic and crowded audience being present, and warmly responding to the sentiments uttered on the occasion. The President (Mr. Garrison) was in the chair, and opened the meeting by a few congratulatory remarks, and the reading of striking and highly appropriate selections from the Scriptures. A fervent and impressive prayer was then made by the Rev. Mr. Post, after which, the Treasurer's report was submitted, and the following letter read by Oliver Johnson from Hon. Gerrit Smith:—
LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH.
PETERBORO', April 16, 1862.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND,—The cordial invitation in your letter of 13th inst., to attend and address the approaching Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, I should for many reasons love to accept. But I have many labors at home; and, moreover, I am too old to leave home unnecessarily. You will have an abundance of speakers, and will not need my voice.
I trust that the smiles of Heaven will be upon your meeting, and that great wisdom will characterize all its proceedings.
I shall be all the more pleased with your meeting, if I find that none of its time was consumed in discussing the relations of the Federal Constitution to slavery. Whether those relations be or be not pro-slavery, so it is that the American people persisted in being pro-slavery, until they thereby destroyed the nation. Destroyed it is simply by being pro-slavery; and destroyed it is no less by the pro-slavery of the North than of the South. I do not say that it is destroyed beyond restoration. I hope it will soon be restored; and I am sure it will be ultimately.
The people were infatuated enough to be pro-slavery, whatever might be the character of the Constitution; they will now, I trust, be anti-slavery, whatever its character. They sacrificed the nation to save slavery; they will now, I trust, sacrifice slavery to save the nation. If they fell below the Constitution before, I trust that they are now willing, if need be, to rise above it.
There is one point at which the meeting should, in my judgment, put forth a clear defence of the "Garrisonian Abolitionist." His influence, especially in the case of such a man as yourself or Wendell Phillips, is too important to the cause of freedom that injustice should be allowed to impair it. The "Garrisonian Abolitionist" was formerly a Disunionist, and is now a Unionist; and hence he is charged with being inconsistent, or at least with being a convert. He is, however, the subject neither of inconsistency nor conversion. This nation, whatever it was in theory and in its laws, was practically a nation of kidnappers—of monsters. The "Garrisonian Abolitionist," despairing at last of its reformation, held that it ought to be I broken up. But such a change has taken place in the nation within the last year, that its reformation is no longer to be despaired of. Moreover, the reformation can be carried on far more hopefully in the union than in the disunion of the States. Hence, with all consistency, the "Garrisonian Abolitionist" is now a Unionist. There is a conversion. It is, however, to him, and not of him. There is a change; but it is around him, and not in him.
Whether he was right in holding that the Constitution is pro-slavery is another and inferior question. It is very inferior, because, be the Constitution pro-slavery or anti-slavery, the people are equally bound to be anti-slavery. The Constitution can bind none to be guilty of crime—can excuse none for being guilty of crime. On the immeasurably greater question, whether the nation was pro-slavery, he was emphatically right. Whether it was so hopelessly pro-slavery as he finally believed it to be is still another question. I confess that I lacked but little of being as hopeless as he; or, in other words, but little of identifying myself with his policy, and of going with him for the breaking up of the nation. Surely, it is better for a nation to be broken up than to continue to wield its mighty national powers to uphold a great crime. Surely, the English or the French nation had better be broken up than held together by the policy of putting to death every feeble-born child. That, however, were a small crime compared with the crime of crimes which stains our nation.
You and I have ceased from our anxieties about the abolition of slavery. We must not, however, accept too much credit for having done so. We could well afford to cease from them; for we saw an earnest and a mighty effort to save the country, and we knew that slavery had got such a fast and deadly hold of the throat of the nation, that the nation could not be saved without slavery was killed. Forty years ago, and a no less widely-extended rebellion could have been put down without putting down slavery. A flock of sheep may be saved, and the suckling-wolf which has got in among them be also saved; but let the wolf have a year's more growth, and either it or the sheep must die.
Please add to the funds of the Society the enclosed draft for fifty dollars.
With great regard, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
<c04>
The President then stated that, in consequence of the omission of the annual meeting of the Society last May, he would read the following Statement in behalf of the Executive Committee, instead of the services of resolutions usually submitted on the occasion:-
Statement of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
For the first time since the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society in 1833, its annual meeting was omitted one year ago, by the unanimous judgment of its Executive Committee, in order that, at so critical period in the life of the nation, no opportunity should be given the domestic enemies of freedom to make a mobocratic outbreak, whereby the traitors of the South might be stimulated to a more vigorous prosecution of their nefarious designs, instead of being perplexed and confounded by beholding an undivided North in the maintenance of popular institutions. Now that the lines are distinctly drawn, and vast armies are in the field for the suppression of the rebellion, and all sympathy with the rebels is disavowed, this Society deems it advantageous to resume the observance of its anniversary meetings in the usual manner. 
However opposed it may have been either to the Constitution or the Union, in time past the Society has countenanced no resort of violence, acted no factious part, adopted no illegal or unjustifiable measures, and presented no other than moral issue in vindication of the sovereignty of God and the sacred rights of human nature, against provisions or agreements regarded by is as cruel, wicked, and utterly indefensible. It is the prerogative of all citizens, whether is an individual or organized capacity, to criticise all those laws and institutions for which they are responsible, or by which they are required to be governed, and especially that Constitution which is "the supreme law of the land." And it is equally their right and duty to testify against whatever they conscientiously believe to be at variance with the principles of justice and the claims of humanity, as embodied in the Constitution or enforced in any of the laws under it. Loyalty to God forbids their being dumb in such an exigency. Beyond this, the Society has never gone a hair's breadth. Hence, those who accuse it of having pursued an incendiary, unlawful, treasonable course, are guilty of calumny.
The Society was organized for the abolition of slavery by peaceful and moral instrumentalities: it has used no others. It professes to regard the act of making man the property of man as a flagrant sin against God, and the denial of all human rights; and the slave system as "the sum of all villanies." In this conviction, it is sustained by the verdict of civilized world and the common instincts of mankind: it is, therefore, neither fanatical nor mad. The charge of fanaticism and madness applies to those who advocate or sanction slavery, not to those who plead for its immediate abolition. To be morally consistent, the Society could not but deplore and reprobate those compromises of the Constitution, admitted and carried out to the letter by the nation ever since its formation, by which fugitive slaves are permitted to be hunted and captured as freely in the Free States as in the Slave States-a slave representation is allowed in Congress, thereby greatly increasing the political power of a desperate and domineering slave oligarchy-and the national government is bound, in an emergency, to interfere with its military and naval power for the suppression of a slave insurrection. It was specially with reference to these universally recognized compromises,-no matter in what phraseology they are expressed or concealed,-that the Society has felt constrained to pronounced that instrument "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell," and, consequently, to predict in due time that very overthrow which has now befallen it, through the treachery of those whom it was designed to conciliate and bind, and as the righteous retribution of Heaven.
It was neither a sacrifice of principle nor an abatement of its testimony, in this direction, on the part of this Society, to declare, as to the rebellion itself, that it was marked throughout by high-handed villany and the blackest perfidy; that the theory on which it was attempted to be justified was wild and preposterous, finding no countenance whatever in the Declaration of Independence, or in any rational theory or popular sovereignty; that its object was as diabolical as its measures were base and dastardly; and, therefore, that the national government, having done no wrong to the South, nor sought to exercise any unlawful power over it, was clearly in the right, and imperatively bound, by its constitutional obligations, to crush the rebellion, at whatever coast to slavery, the sole producing cause of the rebellion.
Of the fifteen Slave States that were in the Union eighteen months ago, eleven are now in warlike rebellion, and confederated together for the overthrow of the government, and the establishment of an independent slaveholding empire. The other four are held in allegiance only by the presence of vast armies upon their soil, drawn from the North, and whose withdrawal, even now, would be the signal for those States instantly to revolt, and to join the Southern Confederacy. The rebellion, therefore, virtually covers the whole slaveholder, and has no other object than the preservation and indefinite extension of slavery, and the repudiation of all connection with free institutions. In one word, rebellion and slavery are synonymous and convertible terms. Whoever would see the rebellion effectually and speedily crushed out, must demand in immediate and total abolition of slavery by the Government, as a measure equally necessary and lawful under the war power; and whoever is for guarding or prolonging the existence of slavery, on any pretext whatever, is directly aiding and protracting the rebellion. Traitors have no other claim upon the Constitution than to be hanged or shot. The traitors most deserving of this fate at the South are the slaveholders as a class, and with hardly an exception. They are the instigators, the leaders, the gigantic criminals, and upon their heads should fall an avalanche of retributive justice. Without them, and the bloody and oppressive system to which they madly cling, there had been no rebellion, but in all the South, as in all the North, there would have been the spirit of loyalty and the prevalence of peace. Bad as is the Constitution, in its admitted pro-slavery compromises, it no longer answers the purposes or needs of this nefarious oligarchy; and, therefore, they trample it under their feet, and cease to claim any advantage or protection form it, for themselves or their "peculiar institution." By so doing, they not only vacate all their old constitutional rights, and utterly preclude all appeal in that direction, but place their whole slave system at he mercy of upon it, but should instantly avail itself of this magnificent opportunity to smite it to the dust and so in righteousness bring the rebellion to an end, and give peace and repose to our distracted and bleeding country.
Under these altered circumstances, slavery is no longer a Southern institution, but a national responsibility, for the further continuance of which, the Government and people are to be held amenable before God and the world. On no consideration must they be permitted to evade the duty of the hour. Theirs is the right, theirs is power, theirs is the sacred obligation to proclaim a jubilee to all who are pining in bondage in our land; and no device can be substituted for this, without involving them in blood-guiltiness. If, before the revolt and secession, they were not answerable for the existence of slavery at the South, (though their complicity has been constant from the beginning,) still, they can no longer avail themselves of such a plea. They stand as Pharaoh stood to the children of Israel, and can let the bondmen go free if they choose; and if they shall turn a deaf ear as he did, then other plagues shall assuredly scourge the land, and heavier judgments fall upon it. "Now is the accepted time, and now is the day of salvation."
To encourage and strengthen the Government in the performance of this legitimate and beneficent work,
<c05>
multitudes of petitions, signed by tens of thousands of the most intelligent and moral portion of the people of the North, have been forwarded to the present Congress, asking for a decree of universal emancipation. It cannot reasonably be doubted that such a decree would sweep through the rebellious South with irresistible power, and electrify with indescribable joy the entire North. Why should there be any doubt or delay? If there are no constitutional scruples against sacking the towns ravaging the fields, and destroying the lives of the rebels of the South, why should there be any against transferring four millions of slaves from the side of rebellion to that of the Union, the Constitution, the Government, and breaking all their fetters? It will be an act not only of the highest political wisdom, but of transcendent glory and immortal renown to the Administration under which it is consummated. Then may the shout go op from the Atlantic to the Pacific, without cant or hypocrisy, "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!"
This Society rejoices in those cheering signs of the times which indicate an increasing readiness on the part of the Government and people to make slavery and the war terminate together. Among these are the act of Congress, prohibiting the return of fugitive slaves by any officers in the army; the proposition for the recognition of the independence of Hayti and Liberia; the motion of Senator Wilson for a material change in the Fugitive Slave Law, which will undoubtedly prevail; the proposition of Senator Sumner for the abolition for the inter-State slave trade; the treaty concluded between Great Britain and the United States for the suppression of the foreign slave trade; the recognition by the President of the incompatibility of slavery with the safety and permanence of the Government, in his message, recommending the abolition of the slave system in all the States, and proffering a generous cooperation on the part of the nation; the rising discussion of the question in the Border States; the restoration of Gen. Fremont to his command, in spite of the calumnies of his enemies, and notwithstanding his freedom-giving proclamation in Missouri; the growing disposition of the Government to give succor and protection to all fugitive slaves coming under our flag, as evinced especially at Port Royal, and to employ them for their own and the general welfare; the orders of the Secretaries of the Army and Navy to arm at discretion the slaves coming within our lines; and, finally, the cleansing of the National District from all the pollutions of slavery, by the emancipation of every slave within its limits.
But, cheering as are all these signs, they do not lay the axe at the root of the poisonous tree, which ought to be cut down at once, and destroyed forever; nor do they seal up or exhaust the fountain whence these bloody waters of rebellion naturally flow forth, which are now deluging the land. The subjugation of the South by the armies of the North is not reconciliation, is not the re-formation of a broken Union, is not peace, while a single trafficker in human flesh finds legal protection, or a single slave is left to wear the yoke and clank the chain; and, therefore, in order that there may be an abiding peace, and a perfect Union, and a homogeneous people, and all-abounding prosperity from the Atlantic to the Pacific, this Society will earnestly continue to enforce the duty of IMMEDIATE AND UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.
Wm. Wells Brown then took the platform, and delivered a very creditable and highly satisfactory speech on the question, "What shall be done with the slaves, if they are all set free?" Rev. Mr. Hatfield, of the Methodist Church, in Brooklyn, then made an impromptu speech of a stirring and eloquent character— followed by Wendell Phillips in one of his admirably instructive and telling efforts; the services terminating with the singing of the doxology by the whole assembly. It was throughout a highly interesting occasion.

TRUTH AGAINST FALSEHOOD.
The author of Jane Eyre, in one of her books, referred to the habitual use of deceit, wherever interest or convenience prompted it, among the people of the Roman Catholic village where her scene was laid, and to the slight account habitually made of that fault by the spiritual directors to whom these sins were periodically confessed. We Protestants have a sufficient readiness to believe such charges against the votaries of an opposing faith, and yet we leave a similar fault in our own theological household entirely unregarded. In fact, a readiness to deceive for the benefit of one's sect or party, and a readiness to calumniate those of the opposite sect or party, have become habitual in our periodical press, the "religious" (so called) as much as the commercial and hearty acquiescence and cooperation in the use of such instruments by their teachers has become habitual with the people; with the supporters of the "religious" press, (so called) as much as with those of the political and commercial. It is undoubtedly true that people of the very highest repute for Protestant piety are undisturbed by the exposure of a lie in the editorial columns of their favorite paper, if that lie is directed against their opponents. If, then, the religion of a people is to be held accountable, as it must be, in a greater or less degree, for such a state of things, the popular Protestant faith of this country must share this responsibility with the Roman Catholic faith.
To mention one other example before coming to the case of which I wish particularly to speak, the National Tract Society and the Tract Society in Boston have, for the last five years, made grievous complaints, each of disingenuousness, trickery, misrepresentation and unfair management in the other. These charges are true, and equally true on each side; and the partisans of each consider the other very greatly to blame; yet the partisans of each support their own officials in taking precisely the same course.
A specimen of the same dishonesty may be found, copied from the Journal of Commerce, in the first column of the first page of this sheet. A gentleman of New York, whose position in society secures him a large in that paper, having refuted, from his own knowledge, some of the calumnies uttered by the Journal of Commerce against the Port Royal teachers and their employers, the editor of that paper returns to the charge, and, in so doing, displays his friendliness to slavery in a very instructive manner.
The editorial article in question assumes that the colored refugees now under instruction at Port Royal will be (and its letter and spirit equally assume that they ought to be) "restored to slavery, unless confiscated, or freed by some process of law which will be held good in South Carolina." It evidently thinks there is more risk in the possibility of some heterodox doctrine in religion being communicated to some of these pupils, by some of their teachers, than in the whole of them going without further instruction. But its yet greater apprehension is of political heresy; of the danger that these plantation negroes will be taught "disunionism." This, from a paper which was recently compelled to a change of editors, through a well-grounded public belief in its own disunionism, is certainly refreshingly cool.
Becoming a little passionate as he proceeds in the discussion, the new editor reveals with great plainness his substantial agreement with the old one. That which he now chooses to stamp as disunionism, and which he represents as most highly unsuitable to be taught to the negroes is, "that the war has absolved the Government from all constitutional obligation to the owners of slaves, loyal or disloyal."
We need not even glance at the absurdity of the suppositions, on the one hand, that these poor people, who have lived all their lives in slavery under the U. S. Constitution, have any reason to regard or venerate it, or on the other, that any instructions, pro or con, about that document, would enter into their present course of education; for the heated editor proceeds to put his finger upon the precise doctrine which he objects to having taught, and which he had dressed up for display in the very different proposition above quoted. His great fear is that the negroes will be taught "that
<c06>
they were born free, and that they ought to escape from their masters if they should happen ever to be restored to them."
It really looks as if this pious editor, amidst the difficulties of trimming his political course between loyalty and rebellion, had neglected his religion reading, and overlooked the May number of the American Messenger. Even the American Tract Society have now discovered, republished in their official organ and emphasized with italics and small capitals, this injunction of Paul to the servants he was instructing-"If thou mayest be made free, use it rather." And now this hearty defender of their accustomed pro-slavery course, for want of keeping his eye upon the tack they last made, has used the old signal-book in a point directly opposed to the new one, and now fortifies his objection against telling the slaves that freedom is better for them by saying— "What political instruction is given to these servants should be strictly of the Pauline sort." Is Paul divided! Will the political and commercial editor expurgate the Bible of his Nassau-street brethren! They had better send him, without delay, a colporteur, bearing an extra copy of the May Messenger in one band, and his official certificate, signed and sealed, in the other, to prevent his being turned away as an impostor.
Would the employers of teachers at Port Royal dismiss a teacher (asks the Journal of commerce) because he taught the negroes that they were born free and that they ought to escape, if reenslaved! "If not," it replies, "then the plans are wild, nonsensical and fanatical."
Nobody questions the right of the editor in question to hold this absurd opinion, or to recommend it to his readers by any honest means. But he proceeds to back it by a lie, representing those who teach the preferableness of freedom as holding "that anti-slavery and Philo-Negro-ism is all of religion and philanthropy that is necessary for any man, and that the cardinal doctrines of Christianity are all included in, or rendered unnecessary by, this new creed."
In the kindred columns of the New York <illegible> of last week, appears another repetition of two false hoods common with papers of that class. Speaking of a new book published in Cincinnati. called "<illegible> Politics," the Observer says it shows" the utter failure of West Indian Emancipation, and the <illegible> influences of political abolitionism on the interests of the American Union."
Since the American people were not enlightened, humane and Christian enough to follow the <illegible> of abolitionism proper, which would have extinguished slavery by the substitution of fairly <illegible> labor, without either war, or disorder, <illegible> or any change of residence or occupation on the part of the great mass of freedom—since they would <illegible> do that, there remained nothing to save the Northern people from themselves becoming slaves, but the "political abolitionism" which this mendacious parson traduces. So much for the latter of his deceits.
As to the former, although Thome and Kimball's book showed the safety of immediate. emancipation as the beginning, and the books of Sewell and others its manifold, continuous and permanent advantage in the British West Indies, and although these facts and others, collated in Mrs. Child's admirable little book, "The Right Way the Safe Way," have been widely spread before the public, still, by dint of repetition among people who will not read these things, the falsehoods of the pro-slavery press retain an extensive currency. The continued circulation of the work last named is the best antidote to these lies, Let it be largely used in this forming period of our future destiny.—C. K. W.

THE JUBILEE MEETING.
A meeting of the colored people of New Haven Conn., was held in Temple Hall, on Monday evening April 28th, in commemoration of the Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia, and was largely attended, and passed off with great honor to those who had made the arrangements, and gratification to those who attended. The house was called to order by Mr. Mineas Lyman; whereupon, Dr. C. V. R Creed, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, announced the following gentlemen as officers of the meeting:—
President— Rev. AMOS G. BEMAN
Vice Presidents—Richard Green, Mineas <illegible>, Richard Wright, William Stevens, Thomas Prime, Edward Galpin, Robert G. Cromwell, Wm. Wilson, Robert J. Cowes, Richard Giles, S. V. Berry.
Secretaries—Wm. W. Quonn, Chas. E. Cummings, Robert W. Evans, Cornelius H. Gibbs.
The Throne of Grace was then addressed by the Rev. D. L. Ogden, in a brief but appropriate prayer.
The Chairman briefly addressed the meeting, when the following preamble and resolutions were read by Dr. C. V. R. Creed, and adopted in the midst of load cheers:—
Whereas, the Congress of the United States have, in a noble and masterly manner, passed an act emancipating the slaves in the District of Columbia, <illegible> removed forever this long-cherished institution from the very heart and centre of the "National Government," thus wiping away the stain which for years has disgraced the "nations escutcheon," and acknowledging the great Jeffersonian principles, embodies in the Declaration of Independence, of the freedom and equality of all men—therefore,
Resolved, That we, the colored citizens of New Haven, hail with feelings of intense joy and thanks giving the recent Act of Emancipation, and do hereby return our sincere thanks to those <illegible> Christian statesmen— Messrs. Hale, Sumner, <illegible> and Wade, of the Senate—Messrs. Lovejoy. Potter and Stevens, of the House—and all others to whom we feel indebted for bringing about this great <illegible> measure in behalf of our oppressed fellow-beings.
Resolved, That in our honored President, Abraham Lincoln, we recognize those noble traits of character which have ever shone resplendent, through an <illegible> life—a man in whom we have the most <illegible> confidence, and whom we will earnestly sustain in carrying out the letter and spirit of the Constitutions. by pledging to him and the country our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. 
Resolved, That as American Slavery is the <illegible> spring of the present rebellion, we are in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, until the <illegible> conflict between Liberty and Slavery is forever settled, in the complete overthrow and abolition of this stupendous wrong.
Resolved, That in this righteous edict of "national emancipation," and in the glorious development of Divine Providence by which so many thousand of our brethren are becoming FREE from their long <illegible> cruel bondage, we recognize our new responsibilities and obligations to them and to the world, to develop in ourselves, and to teach them the sacred importance of those holy principles of industry, domestic economy, temperance, moral and intellectual education, civil and religious freedom, upon which, under God, the prosperity and happiness of all mankind depend, welcoming our labors of love, and rejoicing in the hope that soon freedom shall be declared to all the inhabitants in the land.
Resolved, That the doings of this meeting be transmitted to the gentlemen embraced in the resolutions, and to the daily press for publication.
The meeting was then addressed by Dr, Creed, the Rev. William T. Catto, Dr. Bacon, the Rev. J.G. Smith, and the Rev. J. S. C Abbott. The speeches were received with repeated bursts of applause, and the joyous people dispersed, after joining in the Doxology.

METAYERS-CORRECTION.
My friend "C.," whose further account of the Metayer Culture will be found on the fourth page, represents me as "beset with a crochet that the Metayer tenure is something less than freedom." He should remember that this idea of mine came from his own representation, (Liberator of Mch. 21st) where he praised the Metayer tenure for the slaves as the preferable alternative of their being "turned adrift in freedom." To be turned adrift in freedom is just what I wish for the slaves; and any persons who really wish to help them can help them better in freedom than under limitations (whether of law or custom) additional to those borne by the rest of the community.
It appears that a net has crept into the last paragraph but one of C's present article, reversing his meaning. He says that Sismondi’s testimony in that of a resident proprietor.-C.K.W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE CHRITIAN EXAMINER. No.231. May, 1862. The table of contents is as follows:
1. The Best Government. 2. Spencer's Reconciliation of Science and Religion. 3. Alteration of Hymns.4. After Icebergs with a Painter. 5. Public Prayer. 6. The Ethics of Treason. 7. The Greeks. 8. Auerbach’s Writings. 9. Review of Current Literature. New Publications Received. Index.
This is a particularly solid and excellent number. Its leading article, suggested by the recently published "Considerations on Representative Government, "by John Stuart Mill, treats ably and justly of the characteristics of the best government. It considers the true ends and functions of government to be, 1.Protection; not of property only, but of all the natural rights of man: including education, in so far as it is a means of protection; and, 2. Promotion of cooperation for social ends. Otherwise stated, it declares the prime end of civil government to be the promotion, preservation and extension of individual liberty. It correctly points out the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the thing called Democracy in this country, shows the rights of suffrage of women to be an essential feature of true democracy, distinguishes between liberty and equality, and insists on the importance of maintaining the rights of minorities.
The article on Public Prayer agrees with a recent number of the North American Review in considering preaching the first, and worship only the secondary purpose of our Sunday gatherings. It gives high praise to the recently published volume of Prayers by Theodore Parker, vindicates that excellent man from some popular misunderstandings, and comes to the conclusion, in regard to the use of public prayer in our community, that it would bear considerable diminution, without any detriment to the interests of religion.
K.G.C. A full exposure of the Southern Traitors, the Knights of the Golden Circle. Their Startling Schemes Frustrated. From original documents never before published. Boston: E.H. Bullard & Co., II Cornhill.
This little pamphlet of eight pages contains letters purporting to be from George Bickley, K.G.C., "President of the American Legion," and from R.C Tyler of Maryland, one of the Colonels of that Legion. These are presented to the public by some person whose name is not given, but who seems to have gained his information by pretending a wish to join the Society.
It is represented that this American Legion is an association of Southern and other pro-slavery men, who intended a conquest of Mexico, with the design of introducing slavery there, but who were diverted from this plan by the more congenial one of effecting the open supremacy of the Slave Power in the United States.
I STILL LIVE. A Poem for the Times. By Miss A. W. Sprague. Oswego, 1862.-pp. 19.
Miss Sprague's poem is an earnest plea for liberty, urging our nation and its official servants to make the present crisis a means of securing and perpetuating truly free institutions.
THE EIGHTEENTH MASSACHESETTS REGIMENT. A Discourse in commemoration of Washington's Birthday, delivered in Falls Church, Fairfax Co., Va., on Sunday, Feb. 23d, 1862. By Rev. F.B. De Costa. Chaplain of the 18th Massachusetts Regiment. Charlestown, Mass., 1862. pp. 15.
This sermon was preached to a Massachusetts Regiment by its Chaplain, not only in Virginia, but in the very church, near Mt. Vernon, where Washington was accustomed to attend public worship. Its hearers were urged to imitate Washington's patriotism and piety. The necessity of acting for freedom as against the rebellion, is strongly urged, but the danger we are in from the system of Southern slavery is only briefly and vaguely alluded to. A few pages are occupied with an attempt to represent that war is not opposed to the genius of Christianity.
THE PROGRESSIVE ANNUAL for 1862. Comprising an Almanac, a Spiritualist Register, and a General Calendar of Reform. Published at the office of the Herald of Progress. New York: A.J. Davis & Co., No. 274 Canal St. pp.08. Price 15 cts.: 10 copies for 8l.
The preface to this little Annual declares it to be designed to impart information concerning principal persons and important movements in the different departments of thought and reform; and to suggest, and help to prove, the true fraternity of all reforms. 
The work presents, first, some fundamental ideas and principles of "the progressive Spiritualists of America." These have no creed as the basis of their association or action, and are confined to the boundary of no sectarian authority. Fourteen specifications, however, are given, in the shape of resolution, "which may be regarded as an embodiment of the Harmonial Platform."
The pages of the Calendar, which follow, are alternated with pages of paragraphs containing facts, suggestions and ideas, many of them of a very high order of excellence. In contrast with these are some weak and poor things, such as the paragraph at the bottom of the 17th page, entitled "Vail over the Face, "where a vulgar error is attempted to be replaced by a theory having no better foundation than the former one.
Next come "Laws of Life and Health," which seem to be abbreviated portions of "The Harbinger of Health," a work prepared by Andrew Jackson Davis.
The work concludes with a valuable classified list, such as has not before been published, first of Writers, Speakers and Workers, in the different fields of human progress, and next of various progressive Publications, old and new, periodical and other. This department is to be enlarged and improved in next year's volume. The Progressive Annual is a very useful addition to our reformatory literature, deserving, and no doubt destined to find, a wide circulation.
THE MONITOR. Albert Stacy, Publisher for Proprietors, Concord, Mass. Number 1, April 19, 1862.
This handsome quarto paper of eight pages, with an advertising cover, is issued weekly from Concord, Mass., and is to be bought wherever the best literature is kept for sale. Its outside and inside, its form and substance, its judicious mixture of light and solid, grave and gay, remind you of the various names that have given Concord its eminence and interest, and justify expectations one naturally forms from them. 
The contents of the first number are-"To You All-The Presidency of Harvard College.-Fanatics.-At Home.-Abroad.-Sudbury and Assabet Rivers.-The Queen of Hearts and the Kings of Clubs.-Rifle Balls, why they turn.-Abraham Lincoln.-April 19th, 1861.-Reviews.-Art.-The Theatre."
The second number, April 26th, contains-"Philanthropy.-The Contrabands of Port Royal.-The Concord and Sudbury River Meadows.-The King of Clubs and the Queen of Hearts: (Continued.)-The Stars and Stripes. (A Song.)-Vineta. (From the German.)-At Home.-Abroad.-The Art of War.-Washington Irving.-Sand Paper.-A Handful of Spring Flowers.-Rifle Balls.-The Studio.-Music in Boston.-Theatres in Boston." A concluding line.-"To You All." informs us that "The Monitor is devoted to Universal Progress."
Verse is sprinkled, with judicious sparingness, among the prose, and young Concord, as well as old Concord, is fairly represented. Let us all read the admonitions of The Monitor.-C.K.W.
LAST POEMS. By Elizabeth Barrett Browning. With a Memorial, by Theodore Tilton, New York: James Miller.
This volume completes Mr. Miller's beautiful edition of Mrs. Browning's Poems, and is published through a liberal purchase of the right to do so in the United States, as is acknowleged by her husband. It
<c02>
has a finely engraved and accurate portrait of her, which adds greatly to its value. Mr. Tilton, too, has done his part well, in his graceful and appreciative "Memorial" of Mrs. Browning, full of nice discrimination and analysis of her poetry and her character. Altogether, Mr. Miller has given us, in this now completed set, a most attractive copy of the works of this wondrously gifted woman.
BALLADS OF THE WAR-MARCH TO THE CAPITAL.
No.1. By Augustine J.H.Duganne. Splendidly and profusely Illustrated, from original Drawings by the best Artists. New York: Published by John Robins, 37 Park Row, and sold by all Booksellers, News Agents, and Canvassers. 
From this specimen number, we infer that the whole series will be replete with interest and attraction, and quite sure to obtain many subscribers and purchasers. It is beautifully printed, and the sketches are made in a very artistic and graphic manner.
THRILLING AND INSTRUCTIVE DEVELOPMENTS: an Experience of Fifteen Years as Roman Catholic Clergyman and Priest. By M. B. Czechowski, Minister of the Gospel. Boston: Published for the Author. 1862.
This is a simple, unvarnished narration of an eventful connection by its author with various Catholic monasteries, whereby he was led to perceive the profligate habits of many of the priests; and, astounded at the discovery, he made his way to Rome, through many difficulties and perils, ingenuously but absurdly supposing that, by revealing to the Pope the facts that had come to his own knowledge, he would meet with sympathy, and induce further inquiry into the matter. "But, alas, for his hopes! Where he looked for consolation, he met neglect and scorn. He arrived in Rome with delightful anticipations, and departed disgusted, and despairing of finding a perfection which did not exist." He was subsequently greatly persecuted, and, after many painful visitations and narrow escapes, at last succeeded in making his flight to this country. He appears to possess a humble and sweet spirit, and indulges in no vituperative language. Of his respectability and truthfulness, there are many vouchers, which appear in the appendix. The price of the work is 75 cents. Application can be made to John F. Cotton, Box 1079, Boston.

J.M. McKIM AND THE PENNSYLVANIA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
A copy of the following correspondence has been, at our own request, kindly furnished by the Executive Committee of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society for publication. We should have great regret at laying it before our readers, were it not for the statement which we are permitted to append to it by of qualification. See remarks subjoined. 
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, January 22d, 1862.
To the Executive Committee of the Pennsylvania Anti Slavery Society:
DEAR FRIENDS-I absent myself from your meeting this afternoon that I may the better perform a duty which, you are aware, I have for some time had in contemplation. I propose to dissolve my official connection with the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society; and to this end I hereby tender my resignation as Corresponding Secretary. That no inconvenience way arise from sudden change in this matter, I desire to add that, with your approval, I will continue to perform the duties of the office till you shall have had time to supply my place with a successor.
I need hardly say that, in taking this step, I have not acted without careful consideration; neither need I add that I perform the duty its adoption devolves upon me with undisguised reluctance. A tie of more than twenty years standing, even thought it be but an official one, is not to be severed without cost; and a relation around which are twined the best associations of a man's life is only dissolved after painful effort. 
It is now twenty-two years since I entered the service of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society; and more than twenty-six years since I commenced my labors in this State as a public advocate of the Anti-Slavery cause. On the first of October, 1836, actuated by a profound sense of duty, and with a heart panting for the work, I accepted a commission from the American Anti-Slavery Society, to labor in its behalf, in this my native State, as a travelling lecturer. I continued in this service, with a brief interruption, occasioned chiefly by ill-health, till the first of January, 1840, at which time, by invitation of your predecessors in office, I entered upon the duties from which I am now about to retire.
In all these years, nothing has occurred to make me regret, even for a moment, my original purpose of self-devotion to the cause, nor the subsequent manner in which I was led to carry that purpose into practice. My labors and experiences have been sources to me of highly prized advantage; and from my official connection with the Society, and the relations in which it has placed me with the Executive Committee, I have derived some of the purest pleasures of my life. I leave without the memory of a grievance, or the drawback of a single unpleasant recollection. The cord which drew me to the cause in the beginning still binds me to its fortunes; and the ties which have linked me to the dear friends who have been my coadjutors have undergone no change except that of augmented vigor.
I retire because I believe that my peculiar work, in the position I have occupied, is done. The ultimate object of the Society, it is true, has not yet been attained, neither is its particular mission entirely accomplished. Slavery still exists; and public sentiment respecting it is not yet wholly rectified. But the signs of the times in regard to the former warrant the belief that its overthrow is near, and the progress of change in the character of the latter justifies the conviction that its regeneration will soon be sufficiently complete for all our intended purposes. 
The Society is now at liberty to discontinue the use of some of the instrumentalities heretofore deemed indispensable. The travelling lecturer a necessity, and the agent in the office need not feel bound to his place by a sense of obligation. This latter fact, applied to my own case, I accept as an indication of duty. Taken in connection with other signs pointing in the same direction, it has brought me to the conclusion which it is the business of this letter to announce. Having performed this task, and having nothing else to add, except that I hope to be with you at your next meeting as usual, I am, in the bonds of fraternal affection and anti-slavery fellowship.
Yours, to the end, J.M. McKIM.
The Recording Secretary to Mr. McKim.
JANUARY 23d, 1862. 
DEAR MR. MCKIM: The Executive Committee postponed final action upon your resignation until the next meeting. In the meantime, I am instructed to hand you the following minute adopted by the Committee:-
"The Committee are unanimous in regretting the proposed resignation of J.M. McKim, feeling that his withdrawal will be a great loss to the cause; and while they do not wish to step between him and his convictions of duty, they would be glad if, upon further consideration, he could feel it right to remain in his present position."
Yours, sincerely, 
REUBEN TOMLINSON, Sec'ry
Mr. McKim's Reply.
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, Jan.24th, 1862.
REUREN TOMLINSON: Dear Friend-Your note of the 23d, in behalf of the Executive Committee, was duly received. I accept it, as it was doubtless intended, not as a serious request that I would reconsider my purpose, but as an expression of the kindly feeling which the Committee are pleased to entertain toward me. As such, it is very acceptable, and I am truly grateful to the Committee.
<c03>
As for the apprehension expressed of "loss to the cause" from my withdrawal, I have only to say, that our cause is happily beyond the reach of injury from any circumstance of such comparative unimportance.
Presuming that you will take an early opportunity to act on my letter, I am 
Yours, truly, J.M. McKIM.
The Executive Committee to Mr. McKim.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 9th, 1862.
J.M. McKIM: Dear Friend-It is with no ordinary feeling of regret that we receive the announcement of your resignation of the office of Corresponding Secretary of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society Years of mutual intercourse and labor in a cause with which our lives have been inwrought, create the strongest fraternal bonds; and out hearts refuse to consent to the severance of even the official ties which bind us together, until the jubilee of the slave shall announce the end of our work. If any word of ours could change your decision, we would gladly speak that word. Our work is not yet done, and the portion which yet remains to be accomplished cannot be accurately measured by mortal ken. In our opinion, our cause still needs your services at the important post which you have so long occupied. But if your decision cannot be reversed, all that remains for us to do is to accept, with most sincere reluctance, your resignation; and to express, at parting, out high appreciation of the services we are about to lose. It is not in conformity with conventional usage, nor in the hollow, forms of ceremonious phraseology, but from the strong impulse of our hearts, that we testify to the fidelity and zeal and diligence with which you have served the Anti-Slavery cause through all its vicissitudes, from the time of your consecration to it, in its day of small things, to the present hour, when it seems about to be crowned with victory.
With the same cordial sincerity do we reciprocate your expression of fraternal regard, and assure you that the friendship which has been nurtured by the intense experience of cooperative anti-slavery labor through so many years, will long survive that labor. 
Our best wishes for your prosperity, and for the abundant success of all your efforts to bless the human race, will ever attend you.
JAMES MOTT,
LUCRETIA MOTT,
ROBERT PURVIS,
ABBY KIMBER,
MARY GREW,
BENJAMIN C. BACON,
SARAH PUGH,
MARGARET J.BURLEIGH,
REUBEN TOMLINSON.
REMARKS BY THE EDITOR OF THE A. S. STANDARD.
We are pleased to learn that Mr. McKim, though not persuaded to withdraw his resignation, has consented to remain in his present position till some other person, equally competent to its duties, shall be found to take his place, or till the committee shall be satisfied that the interests of the cause no longer forbid his withdrawal. Our readers will probably infer from this, as we do, that there is no present probability of our friend's premature abandonment of his place. He remains, however, with the understanding that his duties will not be precisely the same as they have been in times past. The old routine of anti-slavery work is, to a considerable extent, at an end. Conventions, field agencies and other appliances for rousing as well as converting the public, will not hereafter be as necessary as they have been hitherto. The friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society should, it seems to us, devote much of their time and means hereafter to the support to the Standard. Mr. McKim has done much for this object heretofore, not only by his contributions to our columns, but urging the claims of the paper upon the friends of the cause in his field of labor; but we understand it to be his purpose to do still more in time to come. His letters have for many years been a very marked and valuable feature of the paper, and its readers generally will rejoice in the assurance that they are to be not less frequent, as they surely will not be less valuable, hereafter. In this connection, we venture to print an extract from a private letter of Mr. McKim, in which he states with great distinctness his views in respect to the work devolved upon Abolitionists in the new circumstances by which they are surrounded. He says:-
"I still hold to the convictions expressed in my letter to resignation. In my judgment, the old anti-slavery routine is not what the cause now demands. Iconoclasm has had its day. For the battering-ram we must substitute the hod and trowel; taking care, however, not to 'daub with untempered mortar.' We have passed through the pulling-down stage of our movement; the building-up-the constructive part-remains to be accomplished. If our machinery can be adapted to the new exigencies-as it undoubtedly can-I am willing to stay and help work it . But my interest in the old appliances and old watch-scarp, big guns, and 'Delenda est Carthago' do very well when the citadel stands defiant and apparently impregnable; but when an enemy hoists a flag of truce and proposes negotiation, it is time to change our tactics.
"There is one of our old appliances, however, in which my interest has increased rather than abated; I mean the Standard. That is, at present, in my judgment, the instrumentality of our movement-literally our sine qua non. I would have it understood, even more distinctly than it now is, that the Society spares neither pains nor expense in furnishing for the paper a staff of editorial and other contributors, whose knowledge of the cause and experience in its service qualify them to say the word which its exigencies demand."
Some of our readers may not be quite prepared to assent to all that Mr. McKim says of the inapplicability of the old appliances of the cause to its present needs; but we are sure that they will all heartily respond to what he says of the Standard, and rejoice in the assurance that his best energies will be devoted to the work of increasing its value and enlarging its circulation.

ANTI-SLAVERY DEPUTATION TO THE AMERICAN MENISTER.
At two o'clock on the 16th ult., His Excellency, C.F. Adams, United States' Minister to the Court of St. James, gave audience to a Deputation of the members of the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, at his official residence, to receive an Address from the Committee. The Deputation consisted of Mr. Samuel Gurney, M.P., Mr. John Ivatt Briscoe, M.P., the Henry Sterry, Robert Alsop, William Thomas Sargant, Gerard Ralston, the Rev. Dr. Carlile, and L.A. Chamerovzow.
The following is the text of the Address:
To HIS EXCELLENCY, CHARLES FRANCES ADAMS, United States' Minister to the Court of St. James.
SIR,-The COMMITTEE of the BRITISH and FOREIGN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY are gratified at being able to offer an address of cordial welcome to an Ambassador from the United States of America to this country, who holds principles in harmony with their own.
This important and elevated office has been most appropriately conferred upon you, Sir, whose sentiments on the subject of slavery have ever been in sympathy with those of the British nation, and who may be said to inherit them, in direct descent, from one of the most illustrious Presidents of the American Republic.
The Committee are rejoiced to welcome you, as the representative of the first Government of the United States which has taken any active measures towards the removal of slavery, and they desire to pay it, through you, a tribute of confidence and respect. For many years, they have watched with the deepest interest, the development, in the Northern States, of pub-
<c04>
lic opinion through all its phases, and anticipated with anxious solicitude, the day when a predominance of sentiment against the extension of slavery should inaugurate a new and a memorable era in the history of the country.
The Committee desire to express their unqualified satisfaction at the avowed determination of the President and his administration to put down the African slave-trade, and consider that the cause of humanity is deeply indebted to them for the decided attitude now assumed against all persons implicated in the prosecution of this most infamous traffic. But while the measures the United States Government is adopting are evidences of a resolution which cannot be too highly commended, the Committee respectfully submit, that others equally decisive are imperatively required to prevent the abuse of the United States flag for slave-trading purposes. It is notorious that the Trans-atlantic African slave-trade is carried on almost exclusively under cover of that particular flag; and the Committee would therefore venture to suggest, that the United States Government should, without delay, concert, with that of Great Britain, the means of preventing the abuse referred to.
The Committee feel it incumbent upon them to express their extreme gratification at the several propositions, tending towards Abolition, recently introduced to the United States Legislature, more especially those for the removal of slavery from the District of Columbia, and for according Government aid to any State desirous of emancipating its slaves. While these measures may, indeed, when judged of from the Committee's point of view, fall short of actual right to the oppressed and injured slave, the Committee rejoice in them and hail them most cordially, as full of promise for the future, and as steps approximating to the absolute requirements of justice and humanity.
The Committee view, with profound sorrow, the unhappy contest between the Northern and the Southern sections of the Republic. In the presence of so appalling a calamity, they can only give utterance to the fervent hope that the fratricidal conflict may soon cease, and peace be restored to the land; and that with the abolition of the true cause of strife, a common ground of Union may be found, and a divided community be again joined in the bonds of brotherhood.
In conclusion, the Committee would assure you, Sir, of their personal esteem and consideration, and of their very sincere desire for the welfare and the prosperity of the nation you represent.
New Broad Street, E. C, 4th April, 1862.
The Address having been read by Mr. Chamerovzow, His Excellency made the following reply:
GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITTEE—I receive your communication in the spirit in which it is made, and with every desire to reciprocate the friendly sentiments it conveys, as well to your country generally as to yourselves in particular.
The desire of the people of the United States is to extend the blessings to be obtained under free institutions as far as possible, consistently with the preservation of every existing obligation, over the entire surface of their territory. Against the prosecution of this policy, an appeal to arms has been taken by a misguided portion of their number. The ultimate effect can only be to accelerate the same general result, under circumstances rendered needlessly distressing to all. It is the earnest wish of the Government to see the end so brought about, as to avoid all the deplorable consequences that may follow wilful and violent resistance. I trust that those most deeply interested in the issue, may avail themselves in season of the means left open for their restoration to safety, and that the common ground of a re-union may be as you express it, the voluntary removal of the true and only cause of strife.
I think I can assure you that the President's attention is closely fixed upon the subject of the African Slave Trade, and that every effort will be made by the Administration, so far as it is possible under present circumstances, to co-operate with Her Majesty's Government in putting an end to the abuse to which you allude. I am not without hope that effective means may be found to prevent, for the future, the desecration of the national flag by the pirates engaged in the nefarious traffic.
I pray you to receive my thanks for the very kind allusion you have made to myself, and to assure you of my cordial sympathy with you in the arduous labors in which yon have been so long and so honorably engaged.
The Hon, A. Kinnaird, Mr. John Ivatt Briscoe, and Mr. Josiah Forster, having addressed the Minister on the subject of the Memorial, the Deputation withdrew.

THE HORSE-TAMER. John S. Rarey, Esq., is again delighting the citizens of Boston with exhibitions of his humanity and address in the management of the horse. Two very successful performances, with the usual accompanying remarks, have already been given at Music Hall; a third is announced for this (Friday) evening; and the least formal, and therefore, doubtless, the most instructive of all, will close the series to-morrow afternoon. Our readers are well aware, from his previous visit, of our high estimation of Mr. Rarey and his system, and will need no urging to acquaint themselves with both.
The Annual Prize Declamation of the English High School took place at the Tremont Temple, Boston, last Wednesday forenoon. The Transcript tells us that one of the two recipients of the third prize was J. C. Francis, a colored boy; and it adds that he received the highest number of marks for the day's performance from the Committee. The subject of his declamation was "The Rendition of Fugitive Slaves."
We regret to hear of the death of HENRY D. THOREAU, of Concord, Mass. He was esteemed and beloved by many.
From a letter from Washington, dated April 28, published in the Anglo-African, we extract the following:—
"I have received letters from' New York and other points, making inquiries in relation to a memorial presented to Congress by Hon. Mr. Lane of Indiana, purporting to come from colored citizens of the District, asking to be colonized in Central America. I am pleased to state that no such document has emanated from the people of this District. We would like our friends everywhere to understand, that every sensible man in the District is opposed to any such petition, from whatever quarter it may come; for this is our home, and here we will remain."

YORKTOWN EVACUATED BY THE REBELS
YORKTOWN, Sunday, May 4th—9 A. M. General McClellan telegraphs Secretary Stanton that the enemy have abandoned their position at Yorktown, and are now in full retreat. The evacuation was learned to have been ordered by Jeff. Davis and Generals Lee and Johnston on consultation. The rebels distributed torpedoes along the line of their retreat, and many of our troops have suffered fatally by their explosion Cavalry and infantry are pursuing them towards Williamsburg. The deserted works differ greatly in respect to strength.
MONDAY, May 5. The number of guns deserted by the rebels and now in our hands amounts to about 50, ranging from 3 inch rifled cannon up to 10 inch Columbiads, with carriages and implements complete and 76 rounds of ammunition to each piece. All this exclusive of Gloucester Point, also in our possession. A hand to hand encounter took place yesterday between the cavalry of the enemy and ours pursuing, resulting in the capture of 25 of the former and their utter discomfiture.
TUESDAY, May 6. Our gun-boats have ascended the York river, capturing and burning many rebel transports, and shelling both shores. They reached West Point, thirty miles above Yorktown. On land, the advance under Gens. Hooker and Heintzelman was engaged yesterday morning by the rear guard of the rebels at Williamsburg. The fighting was desperate on both sides for about two hours, but the enemy were repulsed at all points. Our loss is estimated at 30 killed and 75 wounded; Gen. Hancock's Brigade also encountered the enemy's left wing of infantry & cavalry who fled at the first bayonet charge leaving 80 killed and 40 wounded. 200 were made prisoners. They lost one Colonel, two Lieut. Colonels, and a Major. Our loss was 17 killed and 40 wounded. A decisive stand will probably be made by the enemy at Williamsburg.
<c05>
WEDNESDAY, May 7. The hard fought action of Monday resulted in the evacuation of Williamsburg by the rebels on the same evening, and its immediate occupation by Gen. McClellan. The former left their wounded, to the number of 150, in our hands, and we have upwards of 1000 prisoners. We have lost Gen. James B. Ricketts, killed. He was taken prisoner at the battle of Bull Run, and afterward exchanged. Gen. Hooker's brigade suffered most on our side. The flight and pursuit still continue.
We have news from other parts of the scat of war, confirming the arrival of Gen. Butler at New Orleans, the capture of Baton Rouge, with immense seizures of cotton and other property. Eleven rebel gunboats and Hollins's turtle were destroyed in our passage up the Mississippi. The Verona (Federal) and Webster (Rebel) sunk each other. This was our only loss in ships; in men, 150. Contradictory rumors still prevail about the evacuation of Corinth. Gen. Pope has captured 2000 rebels at Farmington, Tenn. At Fredericksburg, Va., Gen. McDowell is organizing "contraband" labor.

REBEL BARBARITIES AT MANASSAS.
Report of the Senate Committee— The Charges Fully Sustained—Most Horrible Developments.
WASHINGTON, Wednesday, April 30, 1862.
The Committee on the Conduct of the war have made a report in regard to the barbarous treatment by the Rebels at Manassas of the remains of officers and soldiers of the United States, killed in battle there. They examined a number of witnesses, whose testimony is submitted. The facts disclosed are of a repulsive, Knocking and fearful character.
The Committee say in conclusion:
The members of your Committee night content themselves by leaving this testimony to the Senate and the people without a word of comment, but when the enemies of a just and generous Government are attempting to excite the sympathy of disloyal men in our own country to solicit the aid of foreign Governments by the grossest misrepresentations of the objects of the war, and. of the conduct of the officers and soldiers of the Republic, this, the most startling evidence of their insincerity and inhumanity, deserves some notice at our hands.
History will be examined in vain for a parallel to this rebellion against a good Government, long prepared for by ambitious men, who were made doubly sure of success by the aid and counsel of former Administrations, and by the belief that their plans were unobserved by a magnanimous people. They precipitated the war at a moment when the General Government had just been changed under circumstances of astounding perfidy, without a single reasonable ground of complaint, and in the face of repeated manifestations of moderation and peace on the part of the President and his friends.
They took up arms and declared that they would never surrender until their rebellion had been recognized, or the institutions established by our fathers had been destroyed. The people of the loyal States, at last convinced that they could preserve their liberties only by an appeal to the God of Battles, rushed to the standard of the Republic in response to the call of the Chief Magistrate. Every step of this monstrous treason has been marked by violence and crime. No transgression has been too great, no wrong too startling, for its leaders. They disregarded the sanctity of the oaths they had taken to support the Constitution. They repudiated all their obligations to the people of the Free States. They deceived and betrayed their own fellow-citizens, and crowded their armies with forced levies. They drove from their midst all who would not yield to their despotism, or filled their prisons with men who would not enlist under their flag. They have crowned their rebellion by the perpetration of deeds scarcely known even to savage warfare. The investigations of your Committee have established this fact beyond controversy. The witnesses called before us were men of undoubted veracity and character. Some of them occupy high portions in the army, and others high positions in civil life, differing in political sentiment.
Their evidence presents a remarkable concurrence of opinion and of judgment. Our fellow-countrymen, heretofore sufficiently impressed by the generosity and forbearance of the Government of the United States, and by the barbarous character of the crusade against it, will be shocked by the statements of these unimpeached and unimpeachable witnesses; and foreign nations must, with one accord, however they have hesitated heretofore, consign to lasting odium the authors of crimes which, in all their details, exceed the worst excesses of the Sepoys of India.
Inhumanity to the living has been the leading trait of the rebel leaders, but it was reserved for your Committee to disclose, as a concerted system, their insults to the wounded and their mutilation and desecration of the gallant dead. Our soldiers taken prisoners in honorable battle have been subjected to the most shameful treatment. All the considerations that inspire chivalrous emotions and generous considerations for brave men have been disregarded. It is almost beyond belief that the men fighting in such a cause as ours, and sustained by a Government which, in the midst of violence and treachery, has given repeated evidences of its indulgence, should have been subjected to treatment never before resorted to by one foreign nation in a conflict with another. All the courtesies of professional and civil life seem to have been discarded.
Gen. Beauregard himself, who on a very recent occasion boasted that he had been controlled by humane feelings, after the battle of Bull Run, coolly proposed to hold Gen. Ricketts as a hostage for one of the murderous privateers, and the rebel surgeon* disdained intercourse and communication with our own surgeons taken in honorable battle. Their outrages upon the dead will revive the recollections of the cruelties to which savage tribes subject their prisoners. They were buried in many cases naked, with their faces downward.
They were left to decay in the open air, their bones being carried off as trophies, sometimes, as the testimony proves, to be used as personal adornments; and one witness distinctly avers that the head of one of our most gallant officers was cut off by a secessionist, to be turned into a drinking-cup on the occasion of his marriage. Monstrous as this revelation may appear to be, your Committee have been informed that, during the last two weeks, the skull of a Union soldier has been exhibited in the office of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives, which had been converted to such a purpose, and which had been found on the person of one of the rebel prisoners taken in a recent conflict.
The testimony of Gov. Sprague of Rhode Island is most interesting. It confirms the worst reports against the rebel soldiers, and conclusively proves that the body of one of the bravest officers in the volunteer service was burned. He does not hesitate to add that this hyena desecration of the honored corpse was because the rebels believed it to be the body of Cot. Slocum, against whom they were infuriated for having displayed so much courage and chivalry in forcing his regiment fearlessly and bravely upon them. These disclosures, establishing as they incontestably do the constant inhumanity of the rebel leaders, will be read with sorrow and indignation by the people of the loyal States.
They should inspire these people to renewed exertions to protect our country from the restoration to power of such men. They should, and we believe they will, arouse the disgust and horror of foreign nations against this unholy rebellion. Let it be our duty, nevertheless, to furnish a continued contrast to such barbarities and crimes. Let us persevere in the good work of maintaining the authority of the Constitution, and of refusing to imitate the monstrous practices we have been called upon to investigate.
Your Committee have to say, in conclusion, that they have not yet been enabled to gather testimony in regard to the additional inquiry suggested by the resolution of the Senate whether Indian savages have been employed by the rebels, in military service, against the Government of the United States, and how such warfare has been conducted by said savages, but that they have taken proper step to attend to this important duty. B. F. WADE, Chairman.
THE REBEL BARBARITIES. Among the testimony offered before the Senate Investigating Committee, Nathaniel F. Parker, captured at Falling Waters, said that the prisoners were always badly treated, many died from sheer neglect, and five were shot by sentries. Dr. J. M. Homiston, Surgeon of the 14th New York, was refused permission to attend to wounded men. He and his fellow prisoners received no food for twenty-four hours at Manassas, and inexperienced Surgeons performed operations in a manner absolutely frightful. Corporal Prescott's leg was so unskillfully amputated, that the operation had to be subsequently twice repeated, and that be afterward died of exhaustion. Water was refused to the suffering men, and the; were only relieved by Catching rain water as it fell from the roof. Several died during the night after the battle from neglect. Some were left upon the battle-field until Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. William F. Swalm, Assistant Surgeon in the same regiment, confirmed the testimony of Dr. Homiston. Gen. James B. Ricketts, when lying wounded on the field of battle, heard passing Rebels say, "Knock out the brains of the d—d Yankee." He was told the next day by Beauregard, whom lie knew, that his treatment depended upon the treatment received by the Rebel privateers. The testimony of others, as to the treatment of prisoners, was confirmed by Gen. Ricketts. He affirmed that a number of oar men were shot. He mentioned other ease of unskilful amputation, and heard a Rebel doctor say he "wished he could take oat the hearts of the d—d Yankees as easily as he could take off their legs” He had no decent food, except that which he bought with his own money. Some of the Southern gentlemen treated him well, especially Wade Hampton, who called to •se him. His wife succeeded in reaching him in four
<c06>
days with great difficulty. and lay by his side in the same room with other prisoners for two weeks, without a bed. They were huddled together in one room at Richmond, amid an intolerable stench, and kept there as a common show. Gen. Johnson took his wife's carriage and horses away from her. They were never returned. Louis Francis was bayoneted while lying on his bed. His leg was twice amputated. Two operations were necessary to be performed after his release. Daniel Bixby, Jr., of Washington, says that he heard Mrs. Pierce Butler say that she had seen the Rebels boiling portions of the bodies of the dead, to obtain their bones as relics, and had seen drumsticks made of "Yankees' shin-bones," as they called them; and that she saw a skull that one of the New Orleans Artillery had, which he said he was going to send home to have mounted, and that he intended to drink a brandy punch out of it the day he was married. Benjamin Franklin Lewis, living in the neighborhood, saw many bodies stripped naked before they were buried. Negroes said that finger-rigs were made of the bones, and that the Rebels sold them in their camps. Gov. Sprague confirmed much of this testimony from his own observation when he went to recover the bodies of Colonel Slocum and Major Ballou. He found a trench where the dead were buried with their faces downward, undoubtedly as a mark of in dignity. Much other testimony was taken to the same effect.
CRUELTIES OF THE REBELS. The Committee on the Conduct of the War have been taking testimony in relation to the treatment of the wounded Union soldiers that fell into the hands of the rebels at the Battle of Bull Run. In relation to the case of Corporal Prescott, of the Fourteenth Regiment, N.Y .S.M., (Brooklyn), Dr. Homiston testified that on the rebels taking possession of the hospital he was not allowed to operate; that he particularly requested Dr. Darbee, of South Carolina, the rebel surgeon in charge, to allow him to amputate the leg of Corporal Prescott, telling him that Prescott was a particular friend of his, and he attended to his should be allowed to perform the operation. He requested Dr. H. to sit down while he procured some things which Homiston would need. He sat down and waited some time, when he heard a rebel soldier say-"They are sawing a d-d Yankee's leg off, up stairs." Dr. H. rushed up to the room, where he found Dr. Darbee and two young men, one of whom had just taken one of Prescott's legs off in a most horrible manner. He had left no flaps to cover the bones and form a stump, and again sawed off the bone. They then sewed the flesh over it, but in consequence of there not being enough to cover the bone properly, when it swelled, the stitches drew out and the bone protruded.
During the operation Dr. Homiston, a-skilful surgeon, was not allowed to do anything.
Dr. Swalm testified that he attended Prescott, after his leg had been amputated, found the bone protruded, and the stump a mass of pus and maggots. Darbee again intended to operate on it, but about an hour before he came Dr. Swalm performed the operation, again sawing off the bone. By careful treatment he succeeded in almost healing over the stump, when Darbee ordered all the wounded to be removed to Richmond. Dr. Swalm earnestly protested against this, and begged of him to allow Prescott to remain, but to no purpose. They were put into freight cars, and kept twenty hours on the road. The effect of the jolting of the cars on the poor wounded Corporal can be imagined. Before their arrival at Richmond the wound had opened, and the bone again protruded. He died that night in awful agony with the lockjaw. Thus perished Corporal Prescott, of the Fourteenth Regiment, a young man of fine abilities and liberal education, a man calculated to be an ornament to society, and one who was beloved by all who knew him; and his death under such infernal cruelty, will form part of the general exhibition of Southern cruelty, for which the loyal Unionists will take vengeance before this struggle is ended.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune in Tennessee says:—
HORRIBLE OUTRAGES OF REBEL OUTLAWS.
Just above where we are lying, on the Tennessee shore, in Lauderdale County, resides a family formerly of Iowa, who have lived there for the past four or five years, and have witnessed the workings of Secession in this vicinity. They say that immediately after the declaration that Tennessee had gone out of the Union, bands of armed men went prowling about the country, robbing whomsoever they chose, insulting women, and forcing loyal citizens into the Rebel service at the point of the bayonet. They committed the greatest outrages everywhere, and the family of which I speak were deprived of everything valuable in the house; while the head of the household was compelled to fly from home, and hide in the woods at least six or seven times to avoid impressment.

LOYAL CITIZENS HANGED.
A number of Union men refused to embrace treason even when threatened with death, and those brave spirits were carried off and executed by the mob. The wife of the Iowa man says a great many were hanged, and that she herself knows six who were suspended from a tree within two miles of her own dwelling, and left there a <illegible> to the buzzards and the crows. Their bodies were afterward taken down and buried, but not before the Rebel outlaws were at a safe distance, as the people were fearful, and not without reason, that had it been known the rights of sepulture were given to the poor martyrs, those who performed that common act of charity would probably have shared their fate.
CRUCIFIXION OF A UNIONIST.
The woman says that one of the union men who had been impressed and afterward deserted, more perhaps because he believed his family were starving than from his abhorrence of joining so unholy a cause, was captured in Lauderdale County while on his way home, and was actually nailed to a tree, and left there to perish by inches. The man was found there a week after, merely by accident, as he had been gagged to prevent his outeries, and, thus deprive him of all hope of release, and taken to the house of a neighbor. The unfortunate victim was still alive, but so much exhausted from exposure, famine and pain, that he died on the second day after his release, notwithstanding every effort was made to save his life. This story seems meat improbable; too horrible for belief; but the woman, who has no motive for misrepresentation, declares it true, and I can see no good reason for discrediting her account of the unnaturally cruel and entirely monstrous transaction.
A distinguished gentleman from Nashville informs us that, notwithstanding the exceeding moderation and kindness exhibited there by the Federal authorities, the violence of some of the rebel women goes beyond all bounds. They seem less like women than she devils-or we may as well say he devils, for they unsex themselves. They wear unconcealed pistols and dirks in the streets, and not infrequently they sit or stand at the windows of their houses, and spit upon the officers as they pan along.-Louisville Journal.
THE JENNISON TROUBLE IN KANSAS. From various accounts given of the difficulty between Col. Jennison’s and Gens. Denver and Sturgis we glean the following to have been the cause: The Kansas regiments, among whom was Col. Jennison's, were impatient because of their inactivity, when Gen Curtis was calling from Missouri for help. Not being able to satisfy the desires of his men. Col. Jennison resigned-his resignation to take effect on the 1st of May. Six weeks before that period an order was received by the Lieutenant Colonel of Jennison's regiment, from General Sturgis, instructing him, as if his superior officer had not been in command. This paper Jennison destroyed, and continued to fulfil the duties of his rank; but this act of proper respect for himself and his position was seized as an excuse for his arrest, and he was ordered to prison and to be ironed there. Prominent citizens of St. Louis interposed for his release, and became security for him; and Denver and Sturgis, as is already known, have been removed.-Boston Journal.

MIDDLESEX COUNTY.
A meeting of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at FELTONVILLE, on Sunday, May 18, at the usual hours of meeting, through the day and evening. A preliminary meeting will probably be held on Saturday evening, May 17.
It is hoped that the members and friends of the Society, in the neighboring towns, will, so far as possible, be present.
PARKER PILLSBURY, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., GEORGE W. STACY, and other speakers are engaged to attend.
SAMUEL BARRETT, President.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will give an Address upon Slavery and the War, in the Meeting-house at HOPEDALE, on Sunday next, May 11, at 1 1-2 o'clock, P. M. Also;-on the same day, in MILFORD Town Hall, at 5 1-2o'clock, P. M.
Miss Dickinson is expected to speak in SALEM, on Sunday, May 18. Particulars in next paper.
JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., is prepared to deliver his lecture, "A Plea for my Race," where he may be invited. His address is No. 6, Tremont Street, Boston.
MARRIED-In this city, April 30, by Rev. J. Sella Martin, Mr. BURRILL SMITH to Miss CAROLINE FREEMAN.
In Charlestown, Mass., April 24, Mr. SAMUEL FOWLER to Mrs. NANCY FOUNTAIN.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
THE OLD SLAVE'S CURSE
An old slave sat, at the close of day,
Too weary for slumber, too hopeless to pray;
In thankless toll had his life passed away.
Many a crop had he wrung from the soil;
His hands were large, and horny with toil;
He had fought Labor's battle,-but where was the spoil?
He had worked in the garden, picked in the field,
Raised the vine's clusters, the harvest's rich yield;
Loads of ripe fruit he had carted and wheeled,
All his foot was hominy, oft without salt;
But the minister said he must not find fault,
And ne'er in the path of his duty must halt.
And what were his wages for life's weary years?
A suit of blue homespun, hard stripes and salt tears,
And a rod for his soul through the gospel's stern fears.
His wife,-companion,-was torn from his arms;
For rich men had eyes, and could pay for her charms;
And the Law was not made for chattels' alarms!
His children,-no, animals,-they were sold round,
Bringing "massa" high prices, if warranted sound;
Regarded by "massa" like racer or hound!
The old slave sat, at the close of day,
Too weary for slumber, too hopeless to pray,
And he thought of his life, almost passed away!
And his spirit rose up from his long life-time wrong,
And broke forth in words by the winds borne along,
Till the North, East and West heard the sorrowful song:
Cursed be earth! when the man that sows the grain,
And waters the furrows with blood like rain,
May never a competence hope to gain!
Cursed be the earth!
Cursed be earth! when he that raises the fruit
Is foddered and housed like the meanest brute,-
With hourly threat'nings, and blows to suit!
Cursed be the earth!
Cursed was earth of old, when the first-made bride
Walked forth to her doom by her husband's side:
But what were the curse, were the love denied?
Answer, 0 air!
Burdened with sighs, and groans, and wails!
If sound be photographed, write down the tales
Before whose record humanity quails.
Keep them, 0 air!
Cursed be the earth! may the locusts of old
Encircle green fields with heir withering fold,
And all slaves by Famine to Death be sold,
Cursed be the earth!
Cursed be the earth! may Pestilence stalk
Through hall and hovel with lordly walk,
And life no more with its sufferings mock?
Cursed be the earth! L. L. A. V.

For the Liberator.
A CLOUD UPON OUR COUNTRY.
A cloud upon our country! and it lies
Because our country held so foul a wrong!
A wrong that burdened every breeze with sighs,
Looked up unpitied with its weeping eyes,
And formed the minor strain in Freedom's song.
A cloud upon our country! While God gave
Blessings of plenty with a bounteous hand,
We saw his image not in the poor slave,
Sick and in prison, and we did not save;
Scourged, hunted, burned within our native land!
A cloud upon our country, not more dark
That that veiling her face so many years!
Through the wide world was heard the bloodhound's bark,
Making her name an ignominious mark;-
Not all unheeded fell her bondmen's tears.
We may do wrong until we think it right;
Familiarized with crime, the crime defend;
But down-crushed manhood hath resistless might
When it arouses from Oppression's night,
And pent-up fires volcanic streams will send.
L. L. A. V.

"LET MY PEOPLE GO."
THE SONG OF THE SLAVES' HOPE.
BY GEO. S. BURLEIGH.
A murmur in the midnight! Hark!
The whisper of a tremulous hope
That battle's earthquake tramp may ope
The bondman's dungeon, deep and dark!
Old smothered heart-beats leaping out
Almost to utterance, old despair
Catching new breath in quickened air,-
The indrawn breath of Freedom's shout!
A quick thought gleaming in the night,-
Orion's sword by daylight sheathed!-
A voice to morning never breathed,
The lark-song of an inward light!
Long ere this glow of lurid dawn,
One sleepless eye, one listening ear,
In gloom could see, in silence hear,
The whispered hope, and sword undrawn.
By broad Missouri's winding wave,
By slow Savannah's heavy flood,
On fair Potomac dashed with blood,
Sings low the long-enduring slave
Old songs, the heir-looms of old time,
The awful words that smote, erewhile,
The crested Dragon of the Nile,
Preluding Israel's march sublime.
I plagues, the tenfold scourge of God,
Vermin and blight,-all loathsome things
Commissioned by the King of kings,-
Obedient to the prophet's rod,-
With blood and hail and lightning-glow,
And darkness deeper than the tomb,
Came down the trumpet-voice of doom,
"Proud monarch! let my people go!"
Not till the robber's land was shorn
Of all her glory and her power,
And judgment rang its final hour
In death-groans of the earliest born:
Nor till the Red Sea's refluent wave
Rolled in eternal overthrow
The pomp and pride of Pharaoh,-
Came full deliverance to the slave.
The fire and blood and reptile swarm 
Are on the land of bondage now;
The Judgment Angel's lowering brow
Portends the final thunder-storm;
While mutters in the sulphurous cloud
The summons, "Let my people go!"
Slaves in their cabin chant it low,
And red-mouthed cannon shout it loud.
How long, avenging God! how long
Must rise the old predictive wail,
Must fall the lightning and the hail,
Ere dance the freed to Miriam's song?
The murmur deepens to a cry,
Thought leaps to utterance like a sword
Of fire unsheathing for the Lord,
And Freedom calls to do or die!
The slave has hope! then hope my soul;
No steed to slaughter drives amain
But where God holds the bridle-rein;
He calls from battle's thunder-roll,
"Ere all he first-born feel the blow,
And War's Red Sea for ever whelms
The glory of your banded realms,
Arise! and let my people go!"
N. Y. Independent.

DAYBREAK
Morn in the East! How coldly fair
It breaks upon my fevered eye!
How chides the calm and dewy air!
How chides the pure and pearly sky!
The stars melt in a brighter fire-
The dew, in sunshine, leaves the flowers-
They, from their watch, in light retire,
While we in sadness pass from ours.
<c02>
The Liberator.
METAYERS.
I had intended to give some further account of the Metayer Culture, when I fell very unexpectedly into the good-natured controversy with your contributor, C. K. W., upon the subject. Let me do so now.
The system is not in favor with English authorities, if we except John Stuart Mill. The reason appears to be, that they judge of it as it existed in France under the ancient regime, when the exemption of the noblesse from direct taxation threw the whole burden of the fiscal exactions of the corrupt and despotic government upon the occupiers, and ground the Metayers to dust. The better, and perhaps the only fair, type of the system is to be found in Italy. The fixity of tenure, which is indispensable to its prosperity, and, one would think, to its existence, is stronger in Italy, as I have before stated, than a leasehold; but is not to be found in France, where, it is said by Arthur Young, the Metayers are considered as little better than menial servants, removable at pleasure, and obliged to conform in all things to the will of the landlords. There is no system of labor that would not be despoiled and emasculated under such detestable tyranny as that which governed France before the revolution. Rivers of blood were necessary to wash away the corruption of the old monarchy, and obliterate the titles to property that otherwise could not be occupied by honest labor, except from cruel and legalized persecution; and it is to be feared that Providence vouchsafes to us no other method of purification from the corruption of slavery, and the removal of titles that obstruct the progress of industry and civilization in this country. No argument can be drawn from the example of France against the Metayer system in the true and better form as it is presented in Italy.
Objection may be made to the conversion of slave of Metayer culture, that experience is wanting of the adaptation of the latter to the large culture of the slave States; but the fact is, experience is wanting altogether in respect to the emancipation and civilization of 4,000,000 slaves to be suddenly placed in freedom, without capital, and with no organization of labor to provide them with employment and wages. To do right is what we want; and to do wisely as well as right, is a matter that requires careful and earnest consideration. I am not able to see why, if profits are to be divided, there is not a wide field of success for metayers in the expanded and profitable culture of cotton, tobacco and rice at the South. It seems to me that, before we get to the end of the present rebellion, the necessity will be apparent of dispossessing the owners of a large portion of the cotton estates of the South, to dispossess them of power to destroy the government. The laborers must occupy these estates; they cannot buy them; and I cannot conceive of any more advantageous and practicable organization than for the government to place the estates under the control of commissioners, who will provide for the laborers, generally direct the culture, receive and dispose of the cotton, rice and tobacco, in the cities, and divide the proceeds between the laborers and the government. The commodities would seem to be of the best description to the handled and divided in this manner; and as the government can have no object in selecting commissioners who would not feel an interest in the welfare of the blacks, there would seem to be no better or more liberal plan to bring them forward to the possession of capital, and to the rights of citizenship in "freedom under law." As they acquire capital, intelligence, and habits of self-reliance, there can be nothing in their condition as Metayers to prevent them from becoming proprietors; and if the privilege of the Metayer tenure should be granted to white men, there cannot be a doubt that large numbers, who will become acquainted with the South during the war, will avail themselves of it with alacrity.
Chateauvieux, after describing the convenient arrangement of their farms, says of the Metayers of Italy, and especially of their system in Piedmont-"The rotation of crops in excellent. I should think no country can bring so large and portion of its produce to market as Piedmont." The soil is not naturally fertile, yet "The number of cities is prodigiously great;" and J. S. Mill remarks-"The agriculture must therefore be eminently favorable to the net as well as the gross produce of the land."
Of the valley of the Arno, in its whole extent, both above and below Florence, Chateauvieux thus speaks: "Forests of olive trees covered the lower parts of the mountains, and by their foliage concealed an infinite number of small farms, which peopled this part of the mountains. Chesnut trees raised their heads on the higher slopes, their healthy verdure contrasting with the pale tint of the olive tees, and spreading a brightness over this amphitheatre. The road was bordered on each side with village houses, not many paces from each other. They are placed at a little distance from the road, and separated from it by a wall, and a terrace of some feet in extent. On the wall are commonly placed many vases of antique forms, in which flowers, aloes, and young orange trees are growing. The house itself is completely covered with vines. Before these houses we saw groups of peasant females, dressed in white linen, silk corsets, and straw hats ornamented with flowers Almost every farm maintains a well-looking horse, which goes in a small two-wheeled cart, neatly made, and painted red; they serve for all the purposes of draught for the farm, and also to convey the farmers' daughters to mass and to balls. Thus, on holidays, hundreds of these little carts are seen flying in all directions, carrying the young women decorated with flowers and ribbons."
Now, nobody expects to make an Acadia like this of negro South Carolina. Nobody expects the fine culture and picturesque beauty of the small farms of Italy can be reproduced upon the broad acres of the cotton fields of the South; but I suppose the income that would accrue upon the Southern plantations, and which might be divided between metayers and proprietors, is vastly greater in proportion to population than the income of Italian estates which is thus divided. No doubt, a metayer income of our Southern plantations would yield capital as soon as he negroes would be sufficiently advanced in general intelligence and in habits of self-reliance to profit by it, and the sooner they can be brought to this condition, and made to feel the responsibility of citizens, the safer it will be for the Government and for the best interests of the nation. They extracts I have given show that society among metayers is as free to all sorts of rational enjoyment as that of any other class of farmers.
As to parting with the laboring population of the country, as proposed by the colonization scheme, it is simply not to be thought of. What idea of political economy enters into the heads of those who favor this scheme, it is difficult to conceive. I am bound to think they are empty of economical ideas, and filled only with partisan politics. It has cost a vast deal of capital to raise the slaves of this country to their present productive capacity. Every laboring man, whether bond or free, working with hand or head for the satisfaction of human wants, is an embodiment of fixed capital, of a character so effective and so much superior to brute force, that political economy refuses to estimate it as capital in financial statistics. It grows by a higher law than the organization of labor upon inert matter, and reaches a higher purpose; and yet every individual has coast a certain amount of capital, and has it in him in a state of waste or profit, after all. I forget that we have not done estimating men by money value. Political economy does say that the four million men and persons held in bondage in this country are worth $300 per head, or twelve hundred millions of dollars; but it teaches no such nonsense as the throwing away of this vast sum of working wealth.
The testimony of Sismondi to the Metayer system is still more favorable than that of Chateauvieux, and
<c03>
"has the advantage of being specific, and from accurate knowledge; his information being not that of a resident proprietor, intimately acquainted with rural life." It would exceed the limits of this article to repeat his description of the dwellings and mode of life of the metayers of his district; besides, except as illustrating a principle of success in the system, it would have but little application to any state of society that we could establish in our Southern States.
Now, a word to your contributor, C. K. W., who is beset with a crochet that the metayer tenure is something less than freedom; or, as he expresses it, a tenure that I wish to interpose " between enslavement and perfect freedom." I recommend it as something between poverty and wealth; not as between slavery and freedom. I make no doubt, as I have already stated, that if the privilege of the metayer tenure was extended to our soldiers, they would seize upon it with avidity at the close of the war, and without quarrel with the blacks, would help them to form an improved society in the Southern States. The great want of the poor industrious man is capital. "The rights and obligations of the metayer being fixed by usage," according to Sismondi, "and all taxes and rates being paid by the proprietor," the system would give him the use of capital in the easiest possible way, and with the least possible room for altercation in the settlement of accounts. I cannot see that the solider or the white citizen would fall from freedom by thus accepting a joint account interest, and becoming a partner of the proprietor in the working of an estate upon conditions "fixed by usage"; nor can I see that the same arrangement in the case of the black citizen would in the slightest degree encroach upon his freedom under law. C.

DISCUSSION ON SLAVERY AT CINCINNATI.
MR. EDITOR,-Every Sunday evening, for the past two or three months, a debate on Slavery has been going on at the Unitarian Church in Cincinnati, Rev. M. D. Conway presiding. The question is, "Would a proclamation by the President of the United States, emancipating the slaves of rebels, put an end to the rebellion?" Several good speakers, pro and con, have participated, and the most ultra sentiments on both sides are listened to with attention by large and respectable audiences. The greatest degree of courtesy is manifested by the different combatants towards each other, and it is believed that much good has been accomplished for the cause of human freedom.
The following speech of Mr. M. R. MILLER was made in reply to the remarks of Mr. M. F. PICKLES, one of the pro-slavery advocates, who had made, on the Sunday evening previous, an elaborate defence and justification of human bondage, in reply to a written question sent up to him by a gentleman in the audience three weeks previously. The question was, "Do you justify one race of human beings holdings another race in bondage?" Mr. P. promised at the time to answer the question on the succeeding evening, but failed to do so, and he was again publicly called upon to fulfil his promise, or acknowledge that he was incapable of doing it. Mr. P. thereupon, finding himself cornered, rather reluctantly took he stand, and made a most desperate effort to justify human bondage upon principle, but it is generally conceded that he made a grand failure.
At the opening of the debate on the following Sunday evening, Mr. M. R. MILLER, being invited by the Chairman, made the following speech in reply to Mr. Pickles, which I have reported, and forward to you for publication, if you should think it worthy of a place in your paper O. P. Q.
SPEECH OF M. R. MILLER
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentleman:
It is not without considerable embarrassment, I assure you, that one so humble as myself presumes to address so large and intelligent an audience.
During the past week, a gentleman remarked to me that he did not believe that this discussion would effect much good. I do not agree with him; but, on the contrary, firmly believe that free discussion, if conducted with courtesy and candor and good feeling on both sides, is essential to the permanency of free institutions. This free government of ours is the result of free discussion, and it can only be successfully maintained by encouraging and maintaining free discussion. Free discussion is the very life-blood of the Republic. As well stop the pulsation of the heart, and expect life to continue, as to stop free discussion, and expect liberty to continue. As well blot out the sun from yonder firmament, and expect heat and light to continue, as to blot out free thought and free speech, and expect this free republication government to continue. Let there be no fear of free discussion; the greatest thing to be apprehended in this government is the suppression of free discussion.
It has been over and over again asserted, during this debate, that the discussion or agitation of the slavery question was the prime cause of his fratricidal war. But never was greater mistake made or entertained. On the contrary, the very reverse is the truth; instead of the discussion of slavery being the cause of the war, the truth is, it has been the want of free discussion of the slavery question that has been the cause of the war. [Voice-"That's so."] Why, sir, if anti-slavery men, both of the North and of the South, had been allowed freely to discuss the question of slavery everywhere throughout the United States-if that provision of the Constitution of the United States which guaranties free discussion, which says that "the citizens of each State shall enjoy all the rights and privileges of the citizens of the several States," had been faithfully observed, I verily believe this war had never occurred. If free discussion, by speech and by the press, had been tolerated and defended, as it ought to have been, I verily believe that anti-slavery men everywhere could have persuaded our Southern brethren to have placed the institution of slavery in the way of ultimate extinction, without injury to themselves. I believe that Abolitionists could have convinced the better judgment of slave-holders, that their own happiness and prosperity would have been promoted by the emancipation of their slaves. No, sir, it was not the free discussion of slavery at the mouths of Abolitionists, but it was the suppression of its discussion by mob violence and otherwise, which has resulted in the present discussion of the question at the mouths of cannon. (Applause.) It was the attempt to suppress its free discussion by egg-shells, which has inevitably brought about the sad necessity of now discussion it with bomb-shells. (Laughter.)
The free discussion of slavery in this church, during the present winter, is one of the most cheering signs of the coming of a better feeling on the subject. A thing, perhaps, not often witnessed in this country since the days of Jefferson, we have presented to us here the gratifying spectacle of large and intelligent audiences, composed of citizens entertaining antagonistic sentiments on the subject, listening with attention and decorum, night after night, to the discussion of slavery in the abstract and in the concrete. Our pro-slavery friends here have had a fair opportunity, unmolested, to defend the institution to their heart's content. This fact furnishes a most significant contrast between the tow civilizations. Here, in the North, it is our pride and glory, not only to invite, but to tolerate and defend free discussion on all subjects. Our pro-slavery friend, Mr. Pickles, was listened to, on last Sabbath evening, with patience and courtesy, while he defended and justified slavery to the best of his known ability; but he knows that I would not be permitted unmolested to oppose slavery in a public audience like this any where in the South; he knows that I would be gagged, tarred and feathered, and perhaps hung to the nearest lamp-post, "without the benefit of clergy." [Voice-"Nor doubt of it."] My friend Pickles must be, by this time, pretty forcibly struck with the vast difference existing between the civilization of the North and that of the South. Here, any man may defend what and whom he pleases, and "there is none to make him afraid." 
I desire to make a few remarks in reply to the
<c04>
speech which my friend, Mr. Pickles, made before this audience on last Sabbath evening, in answer to the question propounded to him three weeks before, whether he would justify one race holding another in bondage. He attempted to justify human bondage on principle; but I doubt very much whether he made his case out to his own satisfaction, or even that of his friends, who were expecting something from him more than mere naked assertion, without logical proof. After having taken three weeks to prepare himself, I must confess that I was looking for something more able and convincing; but with due deference to his acknowledged ability as a debater on other subjects, he made a most signal failure. But his failure was not owing to the weakness of the man, but to the weakness of the cause which he espouses; for I tell our pro-slavery friends that they have a champion here. He has failed no more than the best of those who every undertook to defend slavery have failed, and as all men must forever fail. My friend asked for more time, and I hope the Chairman will allow him more time; but I tell the gentleman that a whole eternity will be far too short for him to make a rational and logical defence of slavery. No man can defend that which is indefensible. Not while right and wrong, justice and mercy, retain their present signification can human bondage be justified.
The argument advanced by my friend, Mr. Pickles, to justify one race of men holding another in bondage, instead of being anything new, is merely a repetition of his old two-blade of grass argument, which he has so often advanced during this discussion; and, for fear it has not yet operated to his satisfaction, he seems determined to repeat the dose until it does. Well, sir what is the sum and substance of his oft-repeated two-blade o grass argument to justify slavery? Why, it is this: He says-“He who makes two blades of grass grow where only one grew before, is a public benefactor,” and claims that slavery has done this. I most emphatically deny that slavery has done it, or is such a public benefactor, and I defy him to prove it. But even granting his assumption, for the sake of the argument, if by “grass” he means the natural wealth of the world, such as cotton and sugar, still if, in accomplishing that object, slavery has caused two groans to issue from anguished human hearts where none rose before, slavery is not a public benefactor, but the worst of public malefactors. This has been the bloody record of slavery in all ages and countries, and such it continues to be. Whatever it has compelled men to raise blades of grass, it has manured it with human blood, and watered it with human tears; and, therefore, the end accomplishment is vastly disproportioned to the means employed. As out eloquent colored friend, PETER CLARK, remarked the other evening, it is too much like burning own St. Peter’s to boil a beef-steak. (Applause.)
Nevertheless, where slavery has made blades of grass grow, let it have the credit of it, by all means. A gentlemen lately from New Orleans told me that he saw grass growing in the streets of the city last fall, where it never grew before, and I suppose slavery is entitled to the honor of causing that grass to grow, at any rate. But, whether that will entitle it to be called a public benefactor is rather questionable. (Laughter.)
My friend Pickles defends and justifies slavery on the principle, that it has accomplished the “greatest good to the greatest number of those who have been torn from their native homes in Africa, and made to toil all their lives in America, under the lash, without wages? Or does he mean that it has been the greatest good to the greatest number of those who claim to own human beings as “other cattle”? Slavery the greatest good of the greatest number! Why, that is nothing less than the highwayman’s justification. That is precisely the justification of the marauding banditti who formed a league to rob from the rich, and give to the poor. Their motto was the same as my friend P. now inscribes on the banner of slavery, “The greatest good to the greatest number.” If successfully practiced, it would overturn the very foundations of society, and drive civilization back into the dark ages. It would justify the citizens of Cincinnati in seizing upon the property of our respectable and wealthy fellow-citizen, Mr. Longworth, and distribute his great wealth equally among the two hundred thousand people of this city, in order that the greatest good to the greatest number of its inhabitants might be accomplished. Now, I know my friend Mr. P. would not approve of such wholesale robbery as that; but then, it is the inevitable consequence flowing from his justification of slavery upon the principle, that it is the greatest good to the greatest number. If there is any difference between the highwayman’s doctrine, and the doctrine of slavery, as now defended and justified upon this floor, it is this,-that while it was the doctrine of the brigands in ages past, that it was right to rob from the rich and give it to the poor, it is the doctrine of slavery, at the present day, that it is right to rob from the poor, and give it to the rich. (Applause.)
Mr. P. sets up the claim that slavery has conferred a great benefit upon the slaves in the South, because, as he says, it has made their condition better than it was in Africa. Now, the gentleman ought to know that the slaves of the South never were in Africa at all; they are native Americans, born on the soil; and slavery has not made their condition better, for they were born slaves, and are slaves yet. Besides, the gentleman must have forgotten that it has been asserted, over and over again, by himself and friends, in this debate, that the condition of the slaves has been getting worse ever since the agitation for their emancipation commenced.
Now, I would like to know by what logic Mr. P. can make it appear that the condition of human beings can be made better by being born slaves, and afterwards intentionally made worse to spite their friends in the North, because they want to make their condition better? (Applause.)
I will now consider some of the ridiculous assertions, called arguments, usually advanced by our pro-slavery friends, here and elsewhere, whenever the subject of the emancipation of slaves, or that of the elevation of the negro race among us, is introduced. They entertain such profound contempt for the negro, that they will not permit themselves candidly top consider the arguments we advance. Their prejudices against the race so deep-seated, they are so predetermined not to hear anything said in favor or against the “peculiar institution.” That they are incompetent to form a just and rational opinion on the subject.
Senseless and self-evidently false arguments constitute their whole stock in trade. Whether you are on the steamboat, the railroad car, in the bar-room of the hotel, or in the private parlor, wherever the subject of negro slavery is introduced, if you should advance the idea, that it is an outrage against the eternal principles of justice for man to hold property in man, and compel him to work all the days of his life without wages, some pro-slavery man will very likely break forth with, “Oh! It will never do to let the slaves go free; for if you do, they can’t take care of themselves.” Now, it seems to me that a man with brains sufficient to fill this glass tumbler must see that such an assertion is equally false and ridiculous. Why, the fact staring us right in the face is, that slaves not only tale care of themselves, but they take care of their masters at the same time; and if our pro-slavery friends would conquer their prejudices against the negro, they could not fall to see it. (Applause.) They ignore the plainest teachings of history. Why, let me ask them, do not the Haytians, who gained their freedom by their own bravery on the battle-field, take care of themselves? Do not the manumitted slaves of Jamaica, of Barbadoes , and of the other British West India Islands, take care of themselves? They have no masters to take care of them, and have had none for nearly thirty years. Do not the three hundred thousand negroes o the North take care of themselves? Who else takes
<c05>
care of them? They possess property to the amount of two or three hundred thousand dollars, and most of them were slaves till they were of age. Does not our talented colored orator, Peter Clark, take care of himself? He was born and raised a slave till he was twenty-one years of age, and he is a living witness to the fact that slaves can take care of themselves when set free. The slave oligarchs of the South, who have made that argument to the used by their pro-slavery supporters in the North, really do not mean by it that they are under any apprehension about their slaves, if set free. Their apprehension is only with regard to themselves. The real meaning of the assertion is simply this: "Oh! it will never do to let the slaves go free; for if you do, their masters can't take care of themselves!" (Applause.) That is the interpretation thereof. "That's what's the matter!" (Laughter.)
Again, they say-" It will never do to liberate the slaves, because they are not fit for freedom." Salves not fit for freedom! Why, of all men, it seems to me, under the broad canopy of heaven, no man is so fit for freedom as he who has not got it. (Applause.) It would be as absurd to contend that he who is hungry is not fit to receive food: that he who has toiled all day long is not fit for rest; that a man prostrated on a bed of sickness is not fit for health; or that a nation devastated by the horrors of civil war is not fit for peace, as to contend that a human being, born with the instinctive love of liberty, and deprived of that inestimable boon, is not fit to receive it. (Applause.) Emancipated slaves have, in every instance, proved themselves eminently fit for freedom. In all the various modes to emancipation-immediate, gradual, conditional and unconditional-they have improved their condition, and still love and defend their freedom.
Our pro-slavery opponents tell you that they have been down South, and seen slavery as it is, and they believe that the slaves are the happiest people in the world Now, Whenever I hear one of them make that declaration, I always ask him if he thinks himself the happiest man in the world, and he invariably replies that he does not. Then I ask him why he does not go down South, and be a slave, in order that he may be the "happiest man in the world." To this he generally replies, "Oh! I-of course, couldn't be happy as a slave." Ah! I reply, then you are willing to admit that a negro can do what you cannot do. If he can be happy as a slave, a white man can be; for what ever a negro can do, a white man can do. But neither of them can be happy as a slave, as long as human nature is what is. (Applause.) The forty thousand runaway slaves nor in Canada are forty thousand living witnesses that slaves are wretched and miserable. It is possible that the happiest men in the world would voluntarily run a away from happiness? (Laughter.)
Then, again, you will hear our pro-slavery opponents assert that "the slaves of the South are better off than the free negroes of the North." Why, do they not know that a slave cannot own any property, not even the shirt on his back? But there is not a fee negro in the North who does not own at least that much, and there are thousands of them who are rich, who own real estate and other property to the amount of hundreds of thousands of dollars. An anecdote is told of a free negro who once sold himself for five hundred dollars, and put the money into his pocket. His master then said, "Now, Pompey, you're mine, body, soul, breeches' pocket, money, and all." (Laughter.) This shows the inalienable nature of human liberty. It is absolutely impossible for a freeman to sell himself: for who is to receive the money? Nor is it any more possible for a slave to own anything, because all the slave has belongs to his master. The master says to his slave what a man once said to his wife, "What's yours is mine, and what's mine is my own." (Laughter.) The slave of the South is not better of than the free negro of the North. No more palpable falsehood was ever uttered. There is not a slave but knows it to be false. A man must first own himself before he can own anything else. No man can be worse off than he who does not own himself. (Applause.) No man who owns nothing can be better off than he who owns himself; and every free negro of the North owns himself, and more besides. (Renewed applause.)
Again, when our pro-slavery friends find themselves hard pushed for argument, they will say, "Well, we don't believe a nigger is a human being, any how." I heard a learned professor, in one of our medical colleges in this city, deliver a public lecture last winter, and he argued for over an hour and a half, and quoted Scripture to prove, that a negro was not a human being. He had displayed upon the walls of the lecture room maps of the heads of the different races of mankind. There was the head of the Caucasian, the Mongolian, the Malayan, the Indian, and the Ethiopian or Negro. He said that God never made but one race of human beings with immortal souls, and that was the white race. All the other races, he said, were merely brutes without souls. But, what was remarkable, this same learned pro-slavery lecturer, evidently forgetting what he had been previously arguing, said at the conclusion, that slavery had been a great blessing to the negro race; for it had brought them all the way from Africa, and civilized and Christianized them here. Slavery had Christianized brutes!
The doctrine, that negroes are only brutes, and have no souls, places our pro-slavery advocates here in rather an awkward predicament in regard to the case of mulattoes. Being half white and half black, half man and half brute, they can only possess half souls. According to this, our eloquent colored friend, Peter Clark, has only half a soul, and can never be more than half saved or half damned. (Laughter.)
Our pro-slavery opponents here are in quite a quandary with regard to our eloquent colored friend, Peter Clark. They can't exactly fix his status. When Peter Clark makes his appearance upon the street railroad car, and is told by the conductor that he must get off, the rude treatment is justified on the principle that Peter Clark represents the negro. But when we introduce Peter Clark upon this stand, and he makes before this intelligent audience a better speech than has been made on either side during this discussion, (always excepting our learned and eloquent friend, the Chairman;) when Peter Clark stands on this rostrum, and, like Paul before Agrippa, defends himself and the cause of his proscribed race; with a learning and eloquence worthy a seat in the United States Senate, or any other legislative body, why then our pro-slavery friends say that Peter Clark represents the white man! (Applause.) It is thus our opponents blow hot and cold, just as the pressing exigencies of their desperate cause may from time to time demand. (Applause.)
At times, when you have driven your pro-slavery antagonist to the wall, he will become irritable, and very likely one of his old fits of disgust will overtake him, and you will probably hear him exclaim, "Well, I hate a nigger, anyhow." A few days ago, while in conversation with a pro-slavery opponent, he said to me, rather pettishly, "I hate a nigger." I asked him if any negro had ever did him any harm. "No," said he. Did be ever injure or slander any of your family or friends? "No." Well, said I, what has any negro done to you, that you should hate the whole race? "Why," said he, I hate a nigger because be is a nigger." Our pro-slavery friends call us fanatics; but whenever I shall profess to hate a man who never injured me nor mine, then set me down not only for a fanatic, but for a fool. (Applause.)
When you have completely discomfited your pro-slavery antagonist, then he will very likely turn upon his heel, and sneeringly say, "I have better business than to waste my time in talking with a d-d Abolitionist." This is proof positive that he has entirely run out of argument, and you may consider that your victory over him is complete; for bard names are not hard arguments.
What is an Abolitionist? One who is for liberating those who are held in slavery. The great and goad man, whose birth-day we hare but lately celebrated, George Washington, died an Abolitionist! That was
<c06>
the crowning act of his illustrious life; and if all slave holders since his day had imitated Washington, in his noble act of emancipating his slaves, they too would have died Abolitionists, and there would nor this day be a slave in America.
A gentleman who had travelled South one told me that, while rambling through a grave-yard near a Southern city, he saw engraved upon a tombstone, as one of his greatest virtues, the fact that the deceased had liberated all his slaves by will. Now, if it is a noble act for a slaveholder in the South to emancipate his slaves, how can it be an ignoble act in an Abolitionist of the North to persuade slaveholders to perform noble acts worthy of being recorded upon their tombstones? (Applause.)
There are several other pro-slavery arguments which I had intended to notice; but my time has expired, and I give way to others.

FROM THE ARMY OF GEN. HALLECK.
Dr. Breck, of Springfield, who went with a brother of the late Col. Peabody to the field where the battle of Pittsfield Landing was fought, has returned and furnished the Springfield Republican with the following account:-
"Following the great battle of the 6th and 7th, until the arrival of General Halleck on the 10th, disorder and demoralization were fearfully prevalent. From ten to fifteen thousand men lined the river bank, and many of them had been there since the Sunday previous. As soon as Gen. Halleck entered the field, everything underwent a change. Men were put into quarters and order at once restored.
Gen. Halleck is the idol of his army, and is as much a gentleman as a soldier, and presents the highest type of both. He has pitched his tent in the field of his army, about a mile from the landing, and come rain or sunshine he shares it with them. All this is very much unlike Gen. Grant, who, on the morning of the memorable Sabbath day's battle, was quietly breakfasting at his quarters in a fine brick house in Savannah, ten miles from the scene of conflict and carnage, and did not reach the field until four hours after the battle commenced.
The authority for this statements is the captain of the steamer which conveyed him from Savannah to Pittsburg Landing. During a stay of five days at Pittsburg, in constant intercourse with officers of every grade, the doctor did not hear a respectful word spoken of Gen. Grant.
They openly charged him with the responsibility of the awful sacrifice of life that had taken place-in other words, for Sunday's surprise and defeat. Had not the rebel army been held in check on Sunday night by the gunboats and a pair of siege guns on shore, which were kept firing all night, and the reinforcements of Buell and Wallace came in, Grant's entire command would inevitably have been bagged-an army of 38,000 men.
As this army occupies the ground on which the battle was fought, there are to be seen on every hand the evidences of an awful conflict. The whole surface is covered with mounds and graves, where the dead are buried to a vastly greater extent than the world will ever know.
The almost fabulous accounts given by the burial parties could not be credited without a view of this immense charnel house. Often, in passing over the field, one comes upon a grave in which the occupant is so slightly covered that the head, or one or more hands are seen protruding.
Bodies are still brought in, every day, of those who have lain uncovered since the battle-bodies of those who had crawled away wounded to die in secluded places. There are a thousand dead horses still unburied. The atmosphere is so loaded with the fetor of animal decomposition as to be almost in supportable.
During the shelling of our gunboats on Sunday night, after the first day's fight, a piece of woods was set on fire, burning over a surface hardly more than half an acre, on which were afterwards found the charred corpses of over five hundred rebels Some of these doubtless had been wounded, but the flames closed the scene over them all. The number of dead upon the field has been variously estimated, and will probably never be ascertained.
Dr. Breck conversed with many who had charge of the burial parties, and they all agree that two-thirds of all found dead upon the field were rebels An intelligent and truthful officer, an acquaintance of Dr. Breck, assured him that, in a little ravine which he pointed out to him, he counted three hundred rebel corpses, and fifty of our men, and the doctor estimates the number buried upon the field at not far from 8000.
Two out of every three of these are rebels, and this, it must be remembered, leaves uncounted the dead they took with them. The mortality among the wounded is very large. Of six hundred and fifty upon one boat, two hundred died before they reached Cairo. They wounded, as we have already said, are now nearly all sent away, and provided for in hospitals, on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.
Our force now on the ground is large-probably large enough. Gen. Pope has already joined the army with his reinforcements. There seems to be no question about the superiority both of our men and our arms. Our Union soldiers were all wounded with small round balls, many of them no larger than a pea. Several who were shot through the lungs with these balls seem to be doing well.
The rebel wounded are torn pitifully by the Minie balls, and this partly accounts for the greater loss of life among the enemy. There is no doubt that the battle of Pittsburg Landing is the greatest of modern battles."

A PHILOSOPHIC NEGRO
A correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette, writing from the Cumberland river, gives the following humorous account of a colloquy with a philosophic negro:-
I noticed upon the hurricane deck to-day an elderly negro with a very philosophical and retrospective cast of countenance, squatted upon his bundle, toasting his shins against the chimney, and apparently plunged into a state of profound meditation. Finding by inquiry that he belonged to the Ninth Illinois, one of the most gallantly behaved and heavily losing regiments at the Fort Donelson battle, and part of which was aboard, I began to interrogate him upon the subject. His philosophy was so much in the Falstaffian vein that I will give his views in his own words, as near as my memory serves me:
"Were you in the fight?"
"Had a little taste of it, sa."
"Stood your grounds, did you?"
"No, sa, I runs."
"Run at the first fire, did you?"
"Yes, sa, and would ha' run soona had I know’d it war comin'."
"Why, that wasn't very creditable to your courage."
"Dat isn't in my line, sa-cookin's my perfeshun
"Well, but have you no regard for your reputation?"
"Reputation's nuffin to me by de side ob life."
"Do you consider your life worth more than other people's?"
"It's worth more to me, sa."
"Then you must value it very highly."
"Yes, sa, I does-more dan all dis wuld-more dan a million of dollars, sa, for what would dat be wuf to a man wid de bref out of him? Self perserbashun am de fust law wid me."
"But why should you act upon a different rule from other men?"
"Because different men set different values upon dar lives,-mine is not in de market."
"But if you lost it, you would have the satisfaction of knowing that you died for your country."
"What satisfaction would dat be to me when de power ob feelin was gone?"
"Then patriotism and honor are nothing to you."
"Nuffin whatever, sa-I regard dem as among de vanities; and den de gobernment don't know me; I hab no rights; may be sold life old hoss any day, and dat's all."
"If our old soldiers were like you, traitors might have broken up the Government without resistance."
"Yes, sa, dar would hab been no help for it. I wouldn't put my life in de scale 'ginst any Gobernment dat eber existed, for no Gobernment could replace de loss to me."
"Do you think any of your company would have missed you if you had been killed?"
"Maybe not, sa-a dead white man ain't much to dese sogers, let alone a dead nigga-but I'd a missed myself, and dat was de pint wid me."
It is safe to say that the dusky corpse of that African will never darken the field of carnage.
