THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financia Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz;-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV.NO.42.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1865.
WHOLE NO. 1811.

SELECTIONS.
<c01>
SPEECH OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE FIRST REGIMENT D. C. COLORED TROOPS, OCT. 10.
MY FRIENDS-My object in presenting myself before you on this occasion is simply to thank you, as members of one of the colored regiments which have been in the service of the country to sustain and carry its banner and its laws triumphantly in every part of this broad land. I repeat, I appear before you on the present occasion merely to tender you my thanks for the compliment you have paid me on your return home, to again be associated with your friends and relations, and those you hold most sacred and dear. I repeat, I have but little to <illegible>.
It is unusual in this government, and in most other governments, to have colored troops engaged in their service. You have gone forth, as events have shown, and served with patience and endurance in the cause of your country. This is your country, as well as any body else's country.-(Cheers.) This is the country in which you export to live, and in which you should expect to do something by your example in civil life, as you have done in the field. This country is founded upon the principles of equality, and at the same time, the standard by which persons are to be estimated is according to their merit and their worth; and you have observed, no doubt, that for him who does his duty faithfully and honestly, there is always a just public judgment that will appreciate, and measure out to him his proper reward.
I know there is much well calculated in this government, and since the late rebellion commenced, to excite the white against the black and the black against the white man. These are things you should all understand, and, at the same time, prepare yourselves for what is before you,-
Upon the return of peace and the surrender of the enemies of the country, it should be the duty of every patriot and every one who calls himself a Christian to remember that with the termination of the war his resentment should cease, that angry feelings should subside, and that every man should become calm and tranquil, and be prepared for what is before him. This is another part of your mission. You have been engaged in the effort to sustain your country in the past, but the future is more important to you than the period in which you have just been engaged.
One great question has been settled in this government, and that is the question of slavery. The institution of slavery made war against the United States, and the United States has lifted its strong arm in vindication of the government and of free government, and in lifting that arm and appealing to the God of Battles, it has been decided that the institution of slavery must go down. (Cheers.) This has been done, and the Goddess of Liberty, in bearing witness over many of our battle-fields since the struggle commenced, has made her loftiest flight, and proclaimed that true liberty has been established upon a more permanent and enduring basis than heretofore. (Applause.) But this is not all; and as you have paid me the compliment to call upon me, I shall take the privilege of saying one or two words, as I am before you.
I repeat, that it is not all over when the sword is returned to its scabbard, when your arms are reversed, and the olive branch of peace is extended. As I remarked before, resentment and revenge should subside. Then what is to follow? You do understand, no doubt, and if you do not, you cannot understand too soon, that liberty does not simply mean the privilege of going into the battle-field or into the service of the country as soldiers. It means other things as well. And now, when you have laid down your arms, there are other objects of equal importance before you. Now that this government has triumphantly passed through this mighty rebellion, after the most gigantic battles the world ever saw, the problem is before you, and it is best that you should understand it; and therefore I speak simply and plainly. Will you now, when you have returned from the army of the United States, and taken the position of the citizen-when you have returned to the avocations of peace will you give evidence to the world that you are capable and competent to govern yourselves? That is what you will have to do. Liberty is not a mere idea, a mere vagary; it is an idea or it is a reality, and when you come to examine this question of liberty, you will not mistake a mere idea for the reality. It does not consist in idleness. Liberty does not consist in being worthless; liberty does not consist in doing all things as we please; and there can be no liberty without law. In a government of freedom and liberty, there must be law, and there must be obedience and submission to law, without regard to color. (Cheers.)
Libertry my countrymen,-and may I not call you my countrymen?-liberty consists in the glorious privilege of work, of pursuing the ordinary avocations of peace with industry and with economy; and that being done, all those who have been industrious and economical are permitted to appropriate and enjoy the products of their own labor. (Cheers.) This is one of the great blessings of freedom; and hence we might ask the question, and answer it by stating that liberty means freedom to work and enjoy the products of your own labor.
You will soon be mustered out of the ranks. It is for you to establish the great fact that you are fit and qualified to be free. Here freedom is not a mere idea but is something that exists in fact. Freedom is not the privilege to live in idleness. Liberty does not mean a resort to low saloons and other places of disreputable character. Freedom and liberty do not mean that people ought to live in licentiousness but liberty means simply to be industrious, to be virtuous, to be upright in all our dealings and relations with men. And to those now before me, members of the 1st Regiment of Colored Volunteers from the District of Columbia and the capital of the United States, I have to say, that a great deal depends upon yourselves. You must give evidence that you are competent for the rights that the government has guaranteed to you. Henceforth, each and all of you must be measured according to your merit. If one man is more meritorioous than another, they cannot be equals, and he is most exalted who is most meritorious with out regard to color; and the idea of having a law passed in the morning that will make a white man a black man before night, and a black man a white man before day, is absurd. This is not the standard. It is your own conduct, it is your own merit, it is the development of your own talents, your own intellectual and moral qualities.
Let this, then, be your course. Adopt a system of morality; abstain from all licentiousness. And let me say one thing here-for I am going to talk plainly. I have lived in the Southern States all my life and know what has too often been the case. There is one thing you should esteem higher and more supreme than almost all others, and that is
<c02>
the solemn contract with all the penalties of married life. Men and women should abstain from those qualities and habits that too frequently follow a war. Inculcate among your children and among your associates, notwithstanding you are just back from the army of the United States, that virtue, that merit, that intellect are. the standards to be observed, and those which you are determined to maintain during your future lives. This is the way to make white men black and black men white. (Cheers.) He who is most meritorious, and virtuous, and intellectual, and well-informed, must stand highest, without regard to color. It is the very basis upon which Heaven rests itself. Each individual takes his degree in sublimer and more exalted regions in proportion to his merits and his virtues. 
Then I shall say to you on this occasion, on returning to your homes and firesides after feeling conscious and proud of having faithfully discharged your duty,—returning with a determination that you will perform your duty in future as you have in the past,—abstain from all bickerings and jealousies and revengeful feelings, which too often spring up between different races. 
There is a great problem before us, and I may as well allude to it here in this connection, and that is, whether this race can he-incorporated and mixed with the people of the United States, to be made a harmonious and permanent ingredient in the population. This is a problem not yet settled, but we are in a fair way to do so. Slavery raised its head against the government, and the government raised its strong arm and struck it to the ground. So that part of the problem is solved; the institution of slavery is overthrown. But another part remains to be solved, and that is, Can four millions of people, raised as they have been, with all the prejudices of the whites—can they take their places in the community, and be made to work harmoniously and congruously in our system? This is a problem to be considered. Are the digestive powers of the American government sufficient to receive this element in its new shape, and digest it, and make it work healthfully upon the system that has incorporated it? This is the question to be determined. Let us make the experiment, and make it in good faith. If that cannot be done, there is another problem before us. If we have to become a separate and distinct people—although I trust that the system can be made to work harmoniously, and the great problem be settled without going any further—if it should be that the two races cannot agree and live in peace and prosperity, and the laws of Providence should require that they be separated, in that event, looking to the far-distant future, and trusting it may never come, that Providence, which works mysteriously, but unerringly and certainly, will point out the way, the mode and the manner by which these people are to be separated, and they are to be taken to their land of inheritance and promise, for such a one is before them. Hence we are making the experiment. Hence let me impress upon you the importance of controlling your passions, developing your intellect, and of applying your physical powers to the industrial interests of the country. And that is the true process by which this question can be settled. Be patient, persevering and forbearing, and you will help to solve the problem. Make for yourselves a reputation in this cause, as you have won for yourselves a reputation in the cause in which you have been engaged. 
In speaking to the members of this regiment, I want them to understand, that so far as I am concerned, I do not assume or pretend that I am stronger than the laws of nature, or that I am wiser than Providence itself. It is our duty to try and discover what those great laws are which are at the foundation of all things, and having discovered what they are, conform our actions and our conduct to them—and to the will of God, who willeth all things. He holds the destinies of nations in the palm of his hand, and He will solve the. question, and rescue these people from the difficulties that have so long surrounded them. 
Then let us be patient, industrious and persevering. Let us develop our intellectual and moral worth. I trust what I have said may be understood and appreciated. Go to your homes, and lead prosperous and happy lives, in peace with all men. Give utterance to no word that would cause dissensions, but do that which will be creditable to yourselves and your country.
To the officers who have commanded and so nobly led you in the field, I also return my thanks for the compliment you have conferred on me.
AN ERA IN THE COUNTRY. The address of President Johnson to the regiment of colored troops recruited in the District of Columbia, is really one of the remarkable events of the present time. That a President of the United States should devote an half hour to counselling those who, only lour years ago, had no rights which white men were bound to respect,—that he should enforce the idea of the government being based upon the principle of equality, and speak of the dusky warriors before him as his countrymen, significantly indicates the position now occupied by the nation. It shows that the whole people have been advanced by the war to a point requiring only a few more progressive steps to ensure the perfect recognition of the democratic idea as applied to men of every station, rank and color.
The demonstration at Washington, yesterday, derives additional force from the fact, that the principal actor in it was a Southern man, born among the baleful influences of the “institution." and inheriting all its prejudices, but yet compelled by the logic of events to acknowledge the manhood of a race whom he has seen despoiled of every privilege. The secessionists of the South, in forcing the true Union men of that section to take sides against slavery, did, unwittingly, a great service to the country. It is to be hoped that the partially “reconstructed” advocates of Southern domination will continue their unconscious efforts to bring the general government into full sympathy with the demands of even-handed republican justice.—Boston Transcript.
The President's speech to the colored regiment causes much grumbling among the copperheads here, who are making a show of endorsing his policy. Expecting something from which they could extract consolation for their present political sacrifices, quite a number were on the ground; but when the President gave utterance to the sentiment that "he who was the most virtuous and the most intelligent would be most exalted, and occupy the highest position, without regard to color," these snakes were so ungracious as to hiss, and when His Excellency went so far as to call the black veterans before him his " countrymen," they turned on their heels and left in disgust. The colored people cheered the President heartily, and received his remarks with great enthusiasm.—Washington corr. N. Y. Times.
<c03>
THE PRESIDENT AND HIS POLICY.
BY REV. ROBERT M. HATFIELD.
Few men have ever had such opportunities for achieving extensive usefulness and imperishable glory as have been placed within the reach of Andrew Johnson. His elevation to the presidency occurred at a time when the nation was overwhelmed with sorrow, and when the people were ready to give him their love and confidence in no stinted measure. We followed our ascending Elijah with wistful and tear-dimmed eyes, and consoled ourselves with the thought that his successor had caught his falling mantle. There were some who ventured to hope that a double portion of the spirit of Elijah rested on Elisha. Among loyal men there were everywhere the purpose and determination to yield to his administration a hearty and generous support. And Andrew Johnson had good and sufficient grounds on which to claim this confidence and support. In dark and perilous times he had been known as a patriot of the stanchest kind. When others faltered, he stood firm and unyielding as a rock. He had spoken brave and manly words in denunciation of secession and treason. He had told the rebel leaders, even before they withdrew from Washington, that they were earning for themselves a halter and everlasting infamy, and that if he possessed the power, their crimes should be adequately punished. When he took possession of the presidential chair, the rebellion was dead or dying, and he had only to carry into effect the principles he had enunciated and defended, and his place in the hearts of his countrymen, and in the temple of fame, was secure forever. Side by side with Washington and Lincoln he would have lived, one of the few immortal names that are not born to die. Six short months ago, and Andrew Johnson held a position and commanded opportunities for which the proudest king in Europe might be glad to barter his sceptre. It is useless to deny that a great change has taken place since then. The loyal people of the country have not withdrawn their confidence from the President, and it is well that they have not. The men who elected him to office are not willing to believe that he has abandoned them, and renounced the principles on which he was elected.
The organs of the Republican party evince unusual delicacy and moderation in criticising the features of his policy from which they are compelled to dissent. But the President and his advisers cannot be ignorant of the fact that tens of thousands of the men who rallied around the administration of Mr. Lincoln, and whose support made it a glorious success, are disappointed and grieved at the present aspect of our national affairs. The religious people of the country were always with Mr. Lincoln, and their influence gave his administration a moral power that was almost omnipotent. And it is just this class of thoughtful and conscientious men whose confidence in President Johnson is wrenched and shaken. And it is easy to see why it is so. They believe that justice is something more than a name, and that its sacred claims are not to be set aside even by the chief executive of the nation. They hold that it is the duty of the President to see that the rights and honor of the nation are vindicated. They are not vindictive, and have no desire that a single blow should be struck in a spirit of revenge; but they believe, as President Johnson does, or once did, that mercy to the guilty is often cruel injustice to the innocent. They do not believe that miserable wretches like the assassins of the President, and the miscreant now on trial at Washington, should be made scape-goats for the leaders of the rebellion. Up to this time, no rebel has been tried and punished for the crime of treason, and they believe that treason is the parent crime, that necessitates and draws after it the lesser ones of robbery, arson, and murder. The future of the President's policy has not been clearly revealed, but seems to be foreshadowed by the declaration that “we must trust the people of the South." From the manner in which this is said, it might be inferred that we have erred in the past, in that we have not trusted the Southern people. But the truth is, that the calamities and horrors of the last four years have largely resulted from a stupid and credulous confidence in these same people, of the South. We were once told that we must trust the solution of the slavery question with the South, and that they in time would abolish the system. Instead of doing this, they riveted more firmly the bondman's chains, and moved heaven and earth to extend and perpetuate the accursed institution. We were exhorted to trust the Christians of the South, and they corrupted the church, rent asunder the great religious bodies of the land, and prostituted Christianity to the support of the sum of all villainies. We trusted these men of the South, and they officered our army and navy, shaped the whole policy of the general government, dictated to the Supreme Court of the United States the decisions it should make, and allowed of none that were inimical to slavery. We went on trusting them while they mobbed and murdered the citizens of the Free States, who were quietly pursuing their lawful avocations. We continued to trust them till, having stolen everything upon which they could lay hands, they pulled down the stars and stripes, and made war upon the government. They aggravated the horrors of war by atrocities such as are possible only among savages and slaveholders. They mutilated the dead bodies of our soldiers who fell at the first Bull Run, and made trinkets of their bones. They butchered prisoners of war in cold blood and without a shadow of provocation. Our soldiers who fell into their hands were starved into idiocy, madness, and death by tens of thousands. They employed agents to diffuse the most malignant and contagious diseases through the cities-of the North. And the spirit of the rebellion finally crystalized in the assassination of the great and good Lincoln. Up to the time when the rebellion collapsed, there was no improvement in its spirit. Conceived in sin and shapen in iniquity, it was perpetuated not only by systematic and wholesale lying on the part of its leaders, but by almost every form of despicable wickedness known among men. And now the panacea for all that we have suffered is to be found in trusting these unrepentant rebels. The ghastly wounds that have jeoparded the nation's life are to be healed by trusting the men who inflicted them, and allowing them an opportunity to repeat their parricidal blows. Security for the future is to be had by trusting men who have been false to the holiest obligations, and clothed themselves with perjury as with a garment. And these are the men who seem just now to enjoy the special confidence of the President. He is seen bandying compliments with them at the White House, and does not hesitate to say that he feels himself honored by their presence and attentions. Original secessionists are appointed to responsible and lucrative offices at the South, while men who have always been true to the Union are treated as unworthy of confidence. As a matter of course, the rebels and their copperhead allies are exultant over the course things are taking. Papers that suggested and advised the assassination of Lincoln are now lauding Johnson to the skies. The politicians who
<c04>
used their utmost endeavors to cripple the administration of Mr. Lincoln, and who voted the war for the Union a failure, now vote that Andrew Johnson is a statesman after their own hearts, and that his policy of reconstruction meets with their hearty approval. There may be nothing wrong in all this, but it has a decidedly ugly look. It may be that there is no coalition between rebels and copperheads to support President Johnson and secure for themselves the spoils of office. Possibly the Southern leaders have “flung away ambition," and have ho hope of gaining through political chicanery what they have lost on the field of battle. But these men need watching. Any policy on the part of the Government that meets with their approval should be scrutinized with the utmost rigor. It becomes those who have the honor and interest of the nation at heart to be vigilant, and swerve not a hair's breadth from their principles at the present time. I purpose in another article to consider the policy of the President in its bearings upon the rights and interests of the colored man.
Chicago, Sept. 27, 1865.-N. Y. Independent.
SOUTHERN PERFIDY.
Swearing is the leading subject of our day,—not profanity, blasphemy, and so forth, but governmental oaths. A man who shall be elected to Congress from a Southern State cannot take a seat in that body without having first taken an oath that he never willingly supported the rebellion. How many men from the South could take such an oath without perjuring themselves? Not one in a hundred of the classes from whom members of Congress are sure to be selected, and elected. It is hoped that this oath will prove a stumbling-block and an an offence, to the persons who shall be sent to Congress by our beaten brethren of the South, who are very sorry because they did not succeed in their amiable purpose to destroy this nation. But such hopes are the idlest of day-dreams. The Southrons will care no more for oaths than the horseman cares for the spider's thread that may be stretched across the road along which he is galloping. There could not be an oath invented which they would not swallow without gulping, or making a wry face over, and that without the aid of rye whisky. Of all delusions, that of supposing the late rebels are likely to be conscientious on the subject of swearing, is the queerest. Why, if they had cared for oaths, they never would have rebelled. How many times had such men as Davis, Stephens, Lee, Hunter, Toombs, Twiggs, Renjamin, and thousands of other rebels, solemnly sworn to support the Constitution of the United States? Twenty, at a moderate calculation. Yet in 1861, we saw them all engaged in laboring for the destruction of that Constitution, and they persisted in their labors for four years. But they are now expected to feel delicate on the swearing business! They will have just as much delicacy about taking and breaking oaths in 1865 as they had in 1861,—and then they had as much as goes to the swearing that daily takes place in those sublime temples of honor, the custom houses of Christendom. They will perjure themselves as readily this year as they did five years ago. Theodore Hook, being about to enter one of the English universities, was asked if he would sign the Thirty-Nine Articles “Yes," said Theodore, “Forty." So with our exrebels. They would swear just as many oaths as you could invent for them, and throw in thirteen to the dozen, and carry one for every ten, if that would give any satisfaction, or help along their purpose. Nor would their conduct be anything new or strange. Historically speaking, false swearing is one of the commonest of things, criminal though it be, and a tempting of God's wrath. Take the example of the English clergy at the time of the Rev oution. That clergy probably numbered above ten thousand souls, who must, in morals, in learning, in sense of individual honor, and, above all, in religious feeling, have been considerably above the average of the English people of the year 1689. By act of Parliament they were required to swear allegiance to William and Mary, on pain of suspension. Nine-tenths of their number could not take the oaths without renouncing their principles, without doing that which for years they had declared it would be a mortal sin to do, nor without giving the lie to their whole lives. Yet more than nine-tenths of them took the oaths; and most of them took the oaths in such ways as to show that they were keenly sensible that they were doing that which religion, morality, the honesty of common men, and the honor of worldlings forbade them to do. In general, says the chief historian of that time, “the compliance was tardy, sad, and sullen. Many, no doubt, deliberately sacrificed principle to interest. Conscience told them that they were committing a sin. But they had not fortitude to resign the parsonage, the garden, the glebe, and to go forth without knowing where to find a meal or a roof for themselves and their little ones. Many swore with doubts and misgivings. Some declared, at the moment of taking the oaths, that they did not mean to promise that they would not submit to James, if he should ever be in a condition to demand their allegiance." Only a few hundred clergymen refused to swear, and were deprived of their livings, they forming the well-known non-jurors, or non-swearers, among them being the Archbishop of Canterbury, and six of his suffragans. If English clergymen could perjure themselves in legions, in this way, merely to preserve their means of livelihood, is it not childish to suppose that the tough old politicians of the Southern States are to be mealy-mouthed in the matter of perjury? Besides, if they should, contrary to all experience and reasonable expectation, be troubled with scruples, they would surmount them by the arguments that they are not free agents; that they are suffering under “abolition tyranny;' that they are no more responsible for their actions than a man would be for giving money to a highwayman who should hold a pistol to his head; that the world would not regard oaths thus taken as being of binding force, and all the rest of those sophisms with which men delude themselves when interest points one way, and honor another way. Political matters have taken such a turn that the late rebels can reasonably look for a return to that power which they held before the war, and they will not mar their prospects by any display of nicety, with all the democracy of the North to urge them on the path of ill-doing. They long for revenge, and for opportunity to attack the national debt; and therefore they will “bolt" any and all oaths that may be formed for the security of loyal men and the preservation of peace. Here and there may be found a man who will be more honest, and refuse to swear, but the number of such men will be almost as great as was that of the English non-jurors. We must be prepared to see them swear like troopers, and consequently for their presence in Congress, if their entrance into that body is to be effected by devotion to perjury.—Boston Traveller.
A negro, who was in altercation with a white man, was cruelly stabbed to death in the streets of Memphis on Tuesday, by a third party, who approached the men who were fighting.
<c05>
PLAIN TALK TO THE FL0RIDIANS.
Judge Marvin, the Provisional Governor of Florida, made an address to the people of Quincy, Florida, on the 5th of September. It was replete with enlightened sentiments, and sound, sensible advice to the citizens of the State. On the subject of secession, he told them that
“After much discussion by the best and soundest thinkers in the nation, the question has been settled with much unanimity that the secession of a State is an impossibility. A rebellion cannot be a success unless it amounts to a revolution, affecting alike all sections of the country. The very soil embraced within the American Republic scorns to receive the impress of but one government at the same time It follows, that Florida has never ceased to be a State in the Union ; but she has been a State in rebellion, and, by her acts, has destroyed her State Government, and particularly the institution of slavery, which was nursed in its bosom and defended by it. She is now held by martial law in a state of tutelage, with her political rights in abeyance, and will be kept there till she organizes for herself, on a new basis, a new government."
The new Constitution of Florida, he said, must be a free Constitution. Slavery may be considered as “thrice dead, and plucked up by the roots. Any attempt on the part of the Convention to revive and reinstate it would be labor and time spent in vain. The future Constitution of Florida must guaranty freedom alike to all—it must not be black or white, but free." He considered it well that slavery had pasted away for ever, because if slavery had remained, and the one hundred and fifty thousand colored men who had been thoroughly instructed in the use of arms, and had exhibited in battle “a steadiness and a courage equal to that of the white man," were turned loose at the South, neither life nor property would have been safe. In that case, slavery would disappear in carnage and rivers of blood. But the thing is out of the way, and Florida is safe. Her future, in this respect, is that of every other State. In regard to the status of the freedmen, the Judge said:-
"As citizens, before the law, the freedmen must be in all respects our equals. I do not mean that as a race they are, or can be made, during many generations, if ever, the equals personally of the Causacian race, or can enjoy the same political or social position; but that is no reason why Constitution or law should discriminate against them. The right of suffrage does not necessarily follow, for that is not a natural, but a political right, which may be granted or withheld, as sound policy may dictate.”
To convince the General Government of good faith in the work of reconstruction, the new Constitution must prohibit slavery. Furthermore, the Constitution must declare that persons of color shall be admitted as witnesses in all courts of civil jurisprudence. The law, in this respect, must know no distinction of color. On this matter, the Judge spoke as follows:-
“I am aware that this is a hard doctrine to many, but it is not, and never was, such to me. Some think the negro constitutionally a liar—that falsehood is marrow in his bones, and that it circulates in his blood. Now, that is not true, in whole or in part, and the statement is a slander upon both God and man. An experience of thirty years in the South has satisfied me that the slave has often told the truth, whilst the master has lied. All classes of witnesses stand before the court and jury upon their own merits, and their testimony, by judge and jury, is taken for what it is worth. They would, no doubt, often perjure themselves, but who does not know that every courtroom is the theatre of more or less false swearing? But we owe it to the bounty of a wise Providence that justice is seldom perverted by false witnesses. Perjury in such a monster, has so many and such horrid heads, that the hissing of their tongues makes a sort of Babel of the witness' stand, warring with each other and with reason, and with a thousand circumstances which surround, reveal, and guard the truth. For some years I occupied the bench, and many are the instances in which I have known guilty parties to go unwhipt of justice because colored people could not come into the court and testify. The admission of such witnesses would have given the State Prison or the gallows its due, and relieved society of bad and dangerous characters.”
Judge Marvin told his hearers that he had lived at the North the last two years, and he could assure them, that while no unkind feeling prevailed, a stern determination exists everywhere that slavery, in all its forms and phases, shall be buried so eternally deep that it will know no resurrection. Of the strength of the North heremarked:-
"Their wealth and resources have astonished the nations of the earth as well as ourselves; and let me say to you that the North is so firmly fixed in its position that the conflict of the last four years, calling to the field a million and a half of men, and spending money in proportion, has had but the slightest effect upon either business or society; and the government was never so strong in men, resources and the affections of the people as when the war closed.
The United States was never so powerful nor so much respected by other nations as at present. Not even in the darkest hour of the late struggle, when you seemed to be a full match for the great republic, did France and England combined dare to insult the old flag. Their sympathies were with you, but they dared not to make them of any practical value ; and now both nations are ready to get down on their marrow bones at her bidding! Now this great, powerful and honored republic is yours. You form a part of it, and share in its glory. When a few years shall have passed away, and the exasperations of the present are healed, none will be prouder than yourselves to say, ‘I am an American citizen.’”

NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
One objection which is urged against permitting the negroes of the South to vote is, that they are not prepared for the proper exercise of that right. Well, perhaps they are not as fully prepared as the Yankees, born among free institutions, nurtured in our educational institutions, who read the papers, and engage in public affairs. They may not be as intelligent as these, but when will they become such? Will keeping them in a degraded state do it will depriving them of all opportunity for improvement, for gaining self-respect, do it? Not at all! They most have opportunities for culture; they must be made to feel they are somebody, and this can be done by placing them in higher situations, and presenting to them something to contend for. This, the right of suffrage will do; it will stimulate them to effort by showing them they are somebody; it will incite in them a desire to attain knowledge, distinction, position.
If they need education to fit them for the appreciation of this right, which we grant, then educate them. “A boy cannot learn to swim on dry land. He must try the water, and run the risk of being drowned. So the use of the ballot is the best training for the responsibilities of the citizen, although blunders may for a while result. Put the Bible, the Spelling-book and the Ballot in the field together, and they will win the victory."
But how are they to acquire this education? Is it
<c06>
at all probable that the men who have heretofore been their masters, who have looked upon them as menials and threaten them as subjects, that they will be specially ready to engage in efforts to educate their former slaves? We do not believe it. It is not at all likely that they will encourage any such efforts, because they know that education would deprive them of control over the blacks, of using them as tools, of keeping them in subserviency. If education is requisite for them, and that it is cannot be questioned, then place them in situations where they can acquire it, where, seeing its importance, they will be ready to engage in, foster, and encourage efforts for their education. Give them a voice in electing the rulers, in making the laws; this will stimulate them to acquire knowledge; this will give them a position so that when they demand laws for the advancement of education, they will be felt as a power, and their influence cannot be disregarded. This then is a strong reason why they should have the privilege of voting; it will incite them to attain knowledge, social elevation. We may ask with propriety, if you deprive the negroes of the ballot because they are ignorant, why does not the same rule apply to white men who are also ignorant? But this one thing is certain, the negroes of the South cannot make a greater failure in the exercise of the ballot than the white population of that section have done; we also assert that they will value the right more sacredly, and will exercise loyalty.—American Sentinel.

THE TRUE RING.
A newspaper of the right sort has at last been started in Richmond. It is appropriately called “The New Nation” It is edited by James W. Hunnicutt, a truly loyal Virginian, who, for twelve years prior to the Rebellion, edited the Fredericksburg Christian Banner. “The New Nation” is a large, handsome, well filled sheet, and is a fearless advocate of freedom and equal rights. Its subscription price is $2.50 a year, in advance. What it proposes to do is summed up in the following passage of its first leader:-
“The unconditional preservation of the Union ; the perpetuity of a republican form of government; the unconditional, universal freedom of all men; the equal rights of all loyal American citizens before the law, without regard to race or color; the establishment of systems of general education throughout the length and breadth of the country, for the benefit of all classes, irrespective of race or color; the rights of proscribed Union refugees and persecuted Union men every where, the interests of a high order of civilization, oppressed humanity and pure Christianity, will be constantly, fearlessly and faithfully advocated and defended by ‘The New Nation' With these principles inscribed on our banner, we unfurl it to the breeze, and in God's name, and in the name of suffering humanity, send it forth to the world, with the firm and unwavering resolve to sink or swim, stand or fall, live or die by them."
That has the true ring in it, as have also the following selections from its many excellent editorials:-
"We think it a very had indication to see so many candidates running for Congress in some of the Congressional districts of Virginia, who cannot take the oath required by Congress, without which they cannot be admitted. Do they wish to have their Congressional districts represented; or have they the assurance to suppose that Congress will repeal the law to oblige them? Many of them voted for and signed the ordinance of Secession; some have signed, who did not vote for it; some have held office under the Confederate or State Government, and a large number sympathized with the rebellion until Lee's surrender, April, 1865. The world will not come to an end any sooner, if they are kept out of offices of trust and honor till the ‘great judgment day’; and we humbly trust that the people of Virginia, whom these candidates have helped to ruin, will see to it that they remain in that obscurity, for which their past conduct in the management of State and national legislation has so eminently fitted them. Shame on the people of Virginia, if they ever place any of these men in office again! Not even so great a man as the Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, of Stanton, who is a candidate, and who says he would spurn the oath if offered to him! Try it, Mr. Stuart! You and others will find it hard to kick against the goads. We look to God, the people, and to Congress. And we shall get it.”
“Who say that the negro race in this country will become extinct, as the Indians have? Those who would reenslave them, if they could, and because they cannot, would crush and annihilate them. Do these men remember that the Indians could never be domesticated? Do what you will, they are Indians still! The negroes were the practical men of the South before the war. They sowed and planted, worked and harvested the crops of the South—were blacksmiths, house-joiners, shoemakers, brick and stone masons; they live by working, not by hunting. During the war, they proved themselves as brave and reliable soldiers as the whites. That they can learn, and become educated, has been abundantly proved. The best thing we can do for and with the negroes-is to give them equal rights before the law, and ‘just let them alone.’ That's all!”
“Simple justice demands equality before the law of all loyal American citizens, irrespective of race or color; and sooner or later they will get it, or the judgments of Heaven will fall with a heavier hand upon this nation than has ever yet been felt. We warn Virginians, and the South, and the whole American people, of the terribly fearful calamities which will yet befall us, if we continue to oppress and crush to earth God's poor, of whatever race or color. 
If the depositions of colored people are not to be admitted as evidence in civil courts equal with those of white men, what show of justice can they expect or receive? They are accused, tried, condemned and hung without the privilege of even speaking a word in their own defence—while the witnesses, jurors, lawyers and judges are all prejudiced against them. The ex-negro aristocrats and would-be despots contended before the rebellion that the people were not capable of self-government, and they usurped the reins of government, and assumed the terrible responsibility to govern the people themselves and they made a most ridiculous botch of it, did they not? And now, while their hands are yet red with the blood of their victims slain on the battle-fields, they have the unblushing effrontery to parade themselves before the people with the same old song, ‘The people are incapable of self-government; they havn't got sense enough to vote.' The true issue now before the people is not whether a negro, as such shall vote, but whether mind and freedom shall govern institutions, or despotism shall govern mind and freedom.-Virginians, look well to the future, and shun political tricksters, ex-aristocrats, and would-be leaders and despots of the people, as you would shun so many demons. Remember the past, take warning, and be wise."

A PARSON CROSS-EXAMINED.
The Rev. Gov. Brownlow, in his Annual Message to the Legislature of Tennessee, said:
“I am convinced that the white and colored people cannot live together politically or socially as equals.
“Emigration shall be fostered and encouraged, and a commission stationed at the East to secure a numerous foreign emigration of skilled labor."
We should prefer to have the Governor in the witness-box, and touch him up viva voce, but as he

PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen. Wadsworth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
"You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, If universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private inclinations as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't see-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service.
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation' guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended."

166 THE LIBERATOR.
OCTOBER 20
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
is in Tennessee, and we are here, we must proceed as is usual in such cases, by filing written interrogatories, as follows:
1. Are you aware that banishment, except as a punishment for crime, is itself a crime of the strong against the weak?
2. Will you state the crime which the Blacks of your State have committed, which renders them deserving of banishment?
3. How much do you estimate the Government, or the Governor of your State to be worth, if he is incapable of protecting the weak against the cruelty and the injustice of the strong?
4. If Blacks and Whites cannot live together politically as equals, why, then, do you support that Government which has declared them to be equals before the law?
5. If Blacks and Whites cannot live together socially as equals, is it not true that Whites and Whites also cannot so live together?
6. Why do you not, therefore, having established a standard, propose to banish all Whites who fall below it?
7. Are there not many people in your State who think the best public interest would be promoted by banishing you?
8. Did they not, in fact, banish you on a certain occasion?
9. How did you like it?
10. Can you, while preserving your self-respect and consistency, live upon terms of political and social equality with many thousands of Whites whom you see around you?
11. Do you propose to banish them, or to permit them to banish you?
12. Suppose a black man declines to emigrate according to your notion, what authority do you find in the Constitution for compelling him to go?
13. If you cannot compel him constitutionally, what right have you to compel him morally by partial and one-sided laws?
14. What surety can you offer that those who would treat the poor black laborers badly, would not treat poor white laborers in the same way?
15. Do you consider it Christian to inveigle poor but honest white men and women into such a trap?
16. The material interest of the State considered, is it probable that raw hands will perform your labor 
as skillfully and as profitably as those which are accustomed to it?
17. How happens it that every blood-stained oppressor 
who has been thirsting for your life will assent to your proposition, and drink your health in bad whiskey for making it?
18. Do you believe it to be your duty to do unto others as you would have them do unto you?
19. Judging from your own experience, if the strong and the weak cannot live together, is it probably 
the fault of the strong or the weak?
20. How would you like it if those who do not feel for you the highest personal admiration should insist upon packing you off, with Mrs. B. and all the little B.s, to make a home in the howling wilderness, and preach the gospel to the wild beasts and birds?
O, Brownlow! Brownlow! you have read your Bible a good deal-read it a little more! You have prayed often and long for others-why not pray a little for yourself? Brownlow, you can step down!—N. Y. Tribune.

CONNECTICUT AND THE SUFFRAGE.
Connecticut has struck the friends of equal suffrage a staggering blow. At a time when it is more than ever necessary that New England should stand up firmly in support of those great ideas of which she has been the pioneer and the foremost champion, one of her States proves recreant, and goes over to the enemy. The defection is a serious one, and may have unfortunate results. The copperheads are screaming with delight over it; they see in it a symptom favorable to the resuscitation of the influence and power of that class of men at the South whose livery they formerly were, and in whose service they hope again to be restored to the places they once were permitted to fill. Those who were lately rebels hail it with satisfaction. Their only obstacle to resuming sway in the South is the danger of the ballot being placed in the hands of the colored man; and when New England demands this, they can cast in her teeth that one of her States refuses to do what she requires of them. Ignorance, prejudice and disloyalty are combined in rejoicing over this latest triumph of the spirit with which the nation has lately warred, and take new heart from the evidence it gives of only partial conversion in what should be the chief seat of enlightenment.
There are methods of explaining the result which may give it a little better aspect. Connecticut has been a doubtful State for years; the Republicans have held her to her allegiance only by untiring effort. The foreign population in many of her cities and manufacturing villages is large; the election was a special one, and our friends are proverbially neglectful of such occasions; we have timid and half-hearted leaders in the State. Above all, the position of the Administration at Washington was at the best doubtful, and while the Democrats were loudly claiming the President as opposed to negro suffrage, he sent no word of comfort to those who fought the battle in its favor, which would enable them to repel the imputation. It was really a fight against odds, and the odds have been too much for us. All this may be true; yet explanation will not essentially impair the force of our defeat. We must acknowledge it, submit to it, renew the battle inspite of it.
We say renew the battle, for it is of much greater importance now than ever that the battle should be won. There are those who have hoped that the Southern States themselves would, when reorganized, give the negro equality in the suffrage. That hope can be reasonably cherished no longer. What Connecticut has failed to do, cannot be expected of South Carolina and Georgia. If there was any faint reason to look for it before Connecticut voted, it now passes out of the realm of possibility. If 
Copperheadism can accomplish so much in one locality, what may not simon-pure rebels do in another? The case is closed against hopes of Southern justice or magnanimity, from this day out. We can secure the black man in his rights only by compelling their recognition in that quarter.
There is an imperative necessity that this be done. The responsibility now clearly rests upon the loyal North as represented in Congress, and it cannot be transferred or evaded. The national honor and the national safety alike require that the ballot be given to the black man. There is but one power now that can be relied upon for this purpose. That power is Congress.
Our honor requires it. The country was in danger: we called upon the black men to aid in saving it. We enlisted two hundred thousand of these under the national banner, and put arms into their hands to fight the nation's enemies. They shed their blood freely upon the battle-field. In the face of injustice, approbrium and abuse, they vindicated not alone their manhood, but their patriotism as well. They have nobly earned the right to citizenship. If life risked and blood shed for country does not confer it, we ask, in the name of all that is just and righteous, what does? A republic that refuses to grant it under such circumstances is indelibly disgraced in the eyes of all high-minded men, the world over.
But the case is much stronger than this. When we deny the negro the ballot, we deny him personal safety and protection. The meanest people that ever lived have not refused protection to their allies where it lay in their power to grant it. We are asked to turn the negro over naked to his enemies. We are to give him absolutely into the hands of the rebel leaders. The States are to return to the Union with all power in their control-none in his own. This is the plan on which States are reconstructed at the South to-day. The negro has just such rights as those who were lately rebels see fit to grant him-no others; and not one of them has given him rights which do not place him practically at rebel disposal. Yet the negro has been our ally-the rebel has been our implacable foe. The negro saw the existence of the nation imperilled through armed treason, and he risked his life for its salvation. He was largely instrumental in the work of shielding it from the deadly blows of rebellion. The rebels, who only despised him before, hate him now for the agency he had in thwarting their purposes. They are thirsting for revenge; and we are asked to be guilty of the unprecedented wickedness and ingratitude of giving up our most faithful ally to the tender mercies of an enemy who is chiefly embittered toward him for the service he has done us. If we do this thing, our honor is irreparably sacrificed
Let us be warned in time. The path of honor, and the path of safety are identical. We cannot fail to walk in it without the most stupendous hazards. Neither can we afford risks, or the trusting to chances. We are encountering a danger scarcely
<c02>
second to that which made the war, and from which only the firmness of the approaching Congress can relieve us. Let this body be determined in fixing loyalty and intelligence as the only basis of suffrage in the South, and we are saved for the present, at least-Roxbury Journal.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1865. 
IMPORTANT RATIFICATION.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON SATISFIED WITH THE MISSISSIPPI CONSTITUTION-LETTERS FROM GOVERNOR SHARKEY, SECRETARY SEWARD, GOVERNOR ANDREW, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON.
There used to be, once upon a time, says the Louisville Democrat, a Latin king called Muna, who consulted a wise nymph about suitable laws or measures. What a delight it would be to those grumblers to know that this event is repeated in our history, the only difference being, that to prevent scandal, instead of a nymph, an original bearded Abolitionist is substituted. This is the actual fact. Recently, Mr. Seward forwarded to Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, a copy of the Mississippi Constitution for his approval. The latter turned it over to William Lloyd Garrison for his opinion, and the latter replied with extraordinary liberality. We give the correspondence entire:—
EXECUTIVE OFFICE, JACKSON, Miss., Aug. 28.
To HON. WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State:
SIR,-I have the honor to lay before you a copy of the Constitution of Mississippi, as amended, together with copies of the several ordinances adopted, which I hope will be satisfactory.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
W. L. SHARKEY,
Provisional Governor of Mississippi.
To which the Secretary of State replied:-
To His Excellency, WM. L. SHARKEY, Provisional Governor of the State of Mississippi, Jackson:
SIR,-Your letter of the 28th ult., accompanied by a copy of the amended Constitution of Mississippi, as adopted by the recent Convention of the State, has been received, and will engage the early attention of the President.
I have the honor to be your Excellency's obedient servant, W. H. SEWARD.
LETTER OF MR. SEWARD TO GOV. ANDREW.
STATE DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, Sept. 4. 
To His Excellency, JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor of the State of Massachusetts:
SIR,-I have the honor to enclose the within Constitution of Mississippi, and beg to know if it is satisfactory to your State, which, being the only “anti-slavery" State when the Union was formed, has of course the right to decide on the new Constitution which the wisdom, virtue and valor of your State have forced the less enlightened State of Mississippi to adopt.
With great respect, W. H. SEWARD.
GOVERNOR ANDREW'S REPLY.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, BOSTON, Mass., September 6. 
WM. L. GARRISON, Esq.:
SIR,-As you started the grand “anti-slavery enterprise” thirty years ago, and, even more than John Brown or Abraham Lincoln are its prophet and embodiment, and as the Secretary of State is waiting to reply to the Governor of Mississippi in regard to the new Constitution of that State, I beg you will examine the enclosed, and reject or ratify it at your earliest convenience.
Yours, etc., JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
MR. GARRISON'S REPLY.
BOSTON, Sept. 7. 
His Excellency, Governor JOHN A. ANDREW:
SIR,-I have carefully examined the within Constitution of Mississippi, and though it does not fully embody my “ideas," it is best, perhaps, not to “crowd the mourners “just now, and therefore I consent to ratify it, with the confident assurance that the” Freedmen's Bureau" will prepare the negroes for emancipation or extermination, and thus close up the great work forever.
Yours, etc., WILLIAM L. GARRISON.
Surely, the readers of the Liberator will require no assurance from us that the above-recorded correspondence is a bold and an audacious forgery; but, inasmuch as it is getting extensive publication in the newspapers, without note or comment, as though it were authentic, and therefore multitudes of thoughtless people may regard it as genuine, we are obliged to brand it as fictitious, utterly ridiculous as the whole affair is.

AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION
Hitherto, the efforts made for the education of the Freedmen of the South having been of an isolated character, though zealously prosecuted and with encouraging success, it has been deemed not only expedient but important, by the principal Freedmen's Associations, East and West, that there should be greater concentration of action among them, as well as unity of spirit and purpose; consequently, on the 19th of Sept. 1865, by their authorized representatives met in the city of New York, they proceeded to organize an AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION, making themselves auxiliary thereto-its object, as defined in the second article of its Constitution, being “to promote the education and elevation of the Freedmen, and to cooperate to this end with the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands”-and comprising an Eastern and a Western Department, ”each to be independent of the other so far as the collection of money and goods, and the selection, supervision and payment of Teachers and Agents may be concerned." This great beneficent movement, therefore, has now a recognized responsible head, such as its magnitude demands, and such as it is believed will add dignity and efficiency to the task of giving light to the blind, and lifting up from the dust a race so long “peeled, meted out, and trodden under foot."
On Wednesday, October 11th, the Commission held its first regular meeting at the Freedmen's Rooms, 424 Wall street, Philadelphia, at which were present members from Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Baltimore, Chicago, Cincinnati, &c. Bishop Simpson, of the M. E. Church, President of the Commission, was in the chair. The proceedings were of an interesting character; the resolutions adopted such as the state of the country demands; and the views expressed by those present as to the course to be pursued for the furtherance of the Freedmen's cause at the South entirely harmonious. The immediate formation of State Societies, both North and South, auxiliary to the Commission, was recommended as of urgent importance, and a plan adopted to carry the recommendation into effect.
In the evening, a splendid assembly of four thousand persons (admitted by ticket) filled the Academy of Music,-many persons being unable to obtain entrance who strongly desired to do so,-for the purpose of inaugurating the movement on the basis and plan of the Sanitary and Christian Commissions. The scene was in the highest degree inspiring,-the leading influences of Church and State being represented on the occasion.
The venerable Bishop Mcllvaine, of Ohio, (of the Protestant Episcopal Church,) presided, and made the opening address-rejoicing that the bonds of the slave had been broken, even if through a Red Sea of suffering and blood. As God had visited us for tolerating the slave system, by the terrible war of the last four years, so will He abundantly bless the land if we now take care of the freedmen, and raise them up to be good citizens of the republic.
He was followed by Bishop Simpson, in a short but effective speech. Regarding the scope of the present work, he said that six hundred and fifty teachers were working in different parts of the South, not only teaching them to read and write, but to learn the practical arts of life. The expense of each teacher is five hundred dollars a year, but to do the work truly and properly there should be at least two thousand teachers, and for these we must raise funds.
Addresses were also made by Rev. Dr. Bellows, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, and William Lloyd Garrison-all being warmly applauded. A fuller report will be given in our next number.
<c03>
THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH TO THE COLORED TROOPS.
On Tuesday, the 10th instant, the First District of Columbia Colored Regiment marched from their quarters in Washington City to the Executive mansion, where the President made them an address, which will be found in another column.
At the opening of this speech, addressed to black soldiers who have fought bravely and effectively to rescue the government and the country from the slaveholders' rebellion, President Johnson informed them that he had little to say, and that his object was merely to thank them for the compliment they had offered him. He made, nevertheless, a speech of considerable length and much repetition, referring chiefly to the future civil status of the colored people, and containing sufficient indications of how much he is not disposed to do for their interests and rights. It is, in fact, an important speech, throwing great light upon the relation which friends of the colored people, and friends of freedom and justice, must henceforth bear to President Johnson and his policy.
We shall be better prepared to comment upon what Mr. Johnson did say, if we spend a moment in considering what a President of the United States should say to such men, both on their own account, and as the representatives of four-and-a-half millions of the population of the country. To such men, under such very peculiar and momentous circumstances, the President should speak with the voice of the nation. What ought the nation to say to them?
The nation owes to the colored people a long standing debt of justice, and also a recent and weighty debt of gratitude; and what the nation says and does to them in regard to the future should bear special relation to both these points, especially now that we are commencing a period of transition.
We are strong, they are weak. We are the majority, they the minority. We are the party from whom the offer of justice is due, and also the offer of gratitude. On all these accounts, it is our part to take the initiative. They must necessarily follow our lead. We should volunteer some course of policy in regard to them which shall be consistent with justice, gratitude and self-respect, and in which they can cooperate without feeling insulted or degraded; and when the Chief of the nation addresses them or their representatives, they have a right to look for (at least) an expression of feeling in this direction.
It has often been declared by abolitionists, in the Liberator and elsewhere, that when President Lincoln found himself obliged” by military necessity” to interfere with slavery, and (both by this act and by receiving colored soldiers into the army) to take, in behalf of the nation, a new position towards the colored people, he should have issued a public address or proclamation to them, stating with manly candor what the new position implied, calling upon them to fulfil its duties, and pledging himself and (as far as might be) the nation to such a relation to them in the future as justice and gratitude might require.
President Lincoln did not choose to take this course. Different suppositions may be made respecting the reasons that actuated him, but there are strong grounds for thinking that he was unduly inclined to favor the people of Kentucky and their system, and too little mindful of right and duty in relation to the negro race. The duty which he left unfulfilled falls now to his successor. It has been, up to this time, neglected by President Johnson, and the colored people of the nation remain in agonizing uncertainty, not knowing how to go forward, because not knowing how far sympathy or even toleration will be extended to them in the occupancy of any new position. Under these circumstances, they must wait with intense anxiety for any incidental circumstance which may reveal how the head of the nation stands affected towards them.
When we further remember respecting the present head of the nation the following facts, namely:-that after his election as Vice President, he made an address really showing sympathy and friendship for the colored people in his vicinity, declaring his belief that God would raise up a Moses to lead them, and even promising (moved by their pathetic appeals) that, in the absence of a fitter person, he would be their Moses-that his accession to the Presidency was marked by this emphatic public declaration respecting the pro-slavery rebels, the worst enemies of the colored people, ”Treason is the greatest of crimes, and under my administration it shall be punished as such”-and that lastly, since he has held the Presidential office, he has shown himself more and more favorable to the unrepentant rebels, and less and less inclined to vindicate the rights of the colored people-we may realize in some imperfect measure the anxiety with which the soldiers of the First District of Columbia Colored Regiment must have listened to his words last week.
The first characteristic of the Address is its coldness. There is no warmth of sympathy, no hearty expression of friendliness, no recognition of any debt owed by the country of justice to black men, or of gratitude to black soldiers. At first he has nothing to say, except formally to return thanks for the compliment offered him.
Having begun, however, President Johnson finds that there is more to be said, and proceeds in a strain of which it is difficult to decide whether its indelicacy, untruthfulness or injustice is the greatest.
The indelicacy of this address to a class of people who have just conferred a great benefit upon the nation and its head is extreme, amounting in fact to insolence, though there is no reason to suppose that the latter was intended. In throwing official cold water on the regiment at this time, the President probably intended merely to foreshadow his predetermined future policy. He reminds them that” it is unusual in this Government and in most other Governments to have colored troops engaged in their service”-utterly ignoring the disgrace which this fact reflects upon the American people and their rulers. He tells these soldiers-just returned from a public duty which they have discharged creditably and honorably, but still uncertain, through the culpable silence of the Administration, whether they will be allowed to take the position of citizens, of landholders, of voters, of witnesses in courts of justice, of men equal with others before the law-that they should prepare themselves for what is before them! that ”every man should become calm and tranquil, and be prepared for what is before him”! Is their present uncertainty suited to produce calmness and tranquility? 
The President proceeds at length, and with many repetitions, to warn the colored people against” idleness; ”to assume that dissuasion from idleness is particularly needed by those whose industry has supported the whole Southern population up to this time. No one knows better than Andrew Johnson that the besetting sin of the Southern white people is laziness, and that the blacks have been compelled to support them in it. He makes this preachment to the wrong party. Nothing could be more impertinent, in both senses. So also with the suggestion of the importance of a faithful fulfilment of conjugal duties. Who made the laws and customs which forbad marriage to the slave, and held his sister, and wife, and daughter, under a system of enforced concubinage? Moral lessons on these subjects are far more needed by the class to which the President himself belongs; and when a white man wishes to give such lessons to the blacks, he should first acknowledge the sins of his own race, and show himself in favor of actively curbing their injustice.
But the indelicacy of this speech reaches its height when it suggests to these soldiers, who have just helped the country gain its victory, that it may become necessary to separate them and their people from the white inhabitants of the country, to suit the whims and unjust prejudices of the latter. True, the speaker had just said,” This is your country as well as everybody else's country." But this gives small comfort when he proceeds to discuss elaborately the question whether the” experiment" of keeping them co-habitants of the land with us will succeed, and to intimate that destiny 
<c04>
may require their removal. If they can be ”calm and tranquil" with all these doubts before them, they must be more (or less) than human.
But the President's speech disregards truth as much as delicacy. He has the hardihood to tell these people, who (some as slaves and some as free blacks) have all their lives been subject to injustice framed into law, that” this country is founded upon the principles of equality.” A more flagrant untruth could not have been told. All that we have accomplished thus far is an unsuccessful attempt, by the minority, to have the government administered upon principles of equality. And, now that a rare opportunity has arisen to facilitate the introduction of real equality into our laws and customs, neither the government nor the people are ready to embrace it.
Injustice also stands out with great prominence as one of the characteristics of this speech. Everywhere it requires movement, action, an initiative, from the colored people, regardless of the fact that they must wait to see what will be allowed them by the powerful and prejudiced majority. Every movement of theirs towards making provision for their permanent security and welfare, every attempt to undertake occupations more remunerative and more” respectable “than cooking, shaving and boot-blacking, every assumption by them of the rights and privileges that white custom has made a point of restricting to white men, will always call forth a howl of displeasure and an attitude of resistance from certain members of our daily press and certain portions of our population. Until the Constitutions and laws of the reconstructed States (and of the District of Columbia) shall erect some barrier against the old usages of the slave-period, and provide some security for the colored man's possession and use of the rights of man, he must remain comparatively passive. The grade of Christianity and civilization is so low among the white people of the United States in relation to this subject, that the blacks cannot move a step in advance of the old caste distinction until permitted, without bringing trouble and danger upon their own heads.
Regardless of all this, serenely ignoring all the disabilities which he, the Southern white man, has all his life been helping to impose on the condition of the negro, (and the continuance of which is strongly favored by his government,) President Johnson coolly tells the representatives of that race that they must do something by their example in civil life as they have done in the field; that they must give evidence to the world of capability and competence to govern themselves; that it is for them to establish the great fact that they are fit and qualified to be free; that they must give evidence that they are competent for the rights that the Government has guaranteed to them (as if it had yet guaranteed half the rights that belong to them); that henceforth each and all of them must be measured according to their own merit, the development of their own talents, their own intellectuality and moral qualities; and, finally, that they should proceed to develop their intellect, and apply their physical powers to the industrial interests of the country. With what Shakespeare would call” damnable iteration," and with what the candid observer must call shameful injustice, the President uses every one of these forms of expression to urge this unfortunate people to do what his own administrative policy prevents them from doing.
Just before making this speech, President Johnson had released Alexander H. Stephens from his well deserved (but far too indulgent) place of confinement, for the express purpose of enabling him to take the lead in a new arrangement of the laws and customs of Georgia. The reason alleged in justification of this act is that Stephens has influence with the old secessionist slaveholders, and that he will be able to persuade them, now that technical slavery is hopelessly wrenched from his grasp and theirs, to consent to its extinction. No doubt he can and will do this.. But is there the slightest reason to suppose that Mr. Stephens and his rebel friends are willing to concede to the negroes the rights of man, as defined by the Declaration of Independence? Consenting to give up slavery and to return to the Union, they are to have their own way in everything else. This, is the President's bargain with them. He gives them power, while he gives the colored people only talk. While he was giving his impertinent and insulting advice to the colored people, he was empowering Stephens to prevent them from developing their minds and characters by such education and enterprise as are open to white people, as far as Georgia is concerned. Every movement which they would naturally make in an attempt to follow the President's advice will now be blocked and defeated in Georgia by the controlling influence which the President's policy has given to Stephens.
Following the President's counsel to improve their minds, develop their intellect, prove themselves capable of self-government, and apply their mental and bodily powers to the industrial interests of the country, the colored people claim the right of education, the right of voting, the right of buying and improving land, the right of choosing their own occupation and trying their chances in it without obstruction, the right of standing equal before the law with Stephens himself, and of having their remedy at law against the attempted tyranny of any of Stephens's rebel friends. The moment they attempt to do any one of these things, Stephens will be “down upon them." He will prevent them, he will control them, he will hem them in on every side, he will effectually prove to them that, though no longer slaves, they are still “niggers." And the institutions of reconstructed Georgia are now likely to be moulded upon this pattern, under opportunities furnished by President Johnson.
But this is only one specimen. Everywhere appear indications of the same course of policy on the part of Andrew Johnson. Immediately following the report of his speech in the paper from which I have copied the above expressions, are these items of news, namely:
"The President granted amnesty pardons, to-day, to 175 persons, residents of North Carolina.
It is said that the President has directed the withdrawal of colored troops from Kentucky and the suspension of martial law in the State."
Every one of these 175 pardoned rebels, now let loose to mould the future of North Carolina, wishes and will try to keep the negro still a ”nigger." The withdrawal of colored troops from Kentucky (insulting loyal blacks to gratify disloyal whites) will increase the opportunity to perpetuate the cruel distinctions heretofore in vogue there between negroes and white men. The same state of things is going on through the whole South, and going on with the favor, and counsel, and active effort of the President. While he gives cold courtesies of speech to those colored people to whom circumstances oblige him to speak, he is acting effectively to engraft upon our reconstructed States the worst of the incidental results of slavery. Should such a man be any longer trusted or supported by the friends of equal rights? In my judgment, President Johnson has proved himself unworthy of the confidence and support that have been given him-C.K.W

LECTURE BY WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The eighth course of the series of Lectures established by the Parker Fraternity was commenced on Tuesday evening last, at the Music Hall. Those parts of the spacious hall not reserved were taken at an early hour, and before the lecturer arrived, the platform and the balconies, as well as the body of the house, were densely filled. Mrs. Frohock, during the half hour preceding the lecture, gave a very acceptable performance on the Great Organ.
The lecture, by Wendell Phillips, was entitled ”The South Victorious."
His idea was, that though the rebel slaveholders have been defeated in the battle-field, the policy which they are now pursuing, coupled with the excessive indulgence shown them by the Administration, most seriously endangers the nation's welfare. Their policy consists in urging two points, namely-their theory
<c05>
of ”State Sovereignty," and their theory that black men cannot live with white men as equals.
Mr. Phillips had no fear for the ultimate future of the nation; justice and right, in time, will prevail. But he seriously feared that the pertinacity of the rebel leaders, aided as they are by Executive favor and by the partisanship of the Northern Democracy, (so called,) will carry the two points above named, make a new contest for the maintenance of liberty essential, and indefinitely postpone the peace and welfare of the country. The Southern States are now passing under the control of the same men, cherishing the same feelings, and holding the same theories, as before the war.
Mr. Phillips reviewed the language and conduct of the President to three parties, the messengers whom he despatched to the South to make reports of its condition, leading them to suppose that his policy was yet unsettled, and would be decided by the facts found to exist there-the ex-rebels sent to him as envoys by the ex-rebel States-and the colored soldiers, just returned from those victories which saved the Union. The address, by the President, to the First Colored Regiment of the District of Columbia, was analyzed and commented on in a strain serious and even solemn, but of terrible severity.
The lecture also contained severe comments upon the leaders, and organs, and members of the Republican party. The combination bearing that name, it said, is only an echo of the President. There is really no political force in existence worthy the name of the Republican party.
The Administration seems now about to do an act not merely impolitic, but infamous. We can trust neither Congress, nor Andrew Johnson, nor the Republican party. The only hope remaining is in the People. And their duty is to rise, not merely to protest against this act, but to prevent it.
The lecture was heard with profound attention, mingled with applause.
The second lecture, next Tuesday evening, will be given by Frederick Douglass, on” The Assassination and its Results." A few tickets yet remain in the hands of the Committee.-C.K.W.
MISS DICKINSON'S LECTURE. The lecture season commenced last week at Tremont Temple, by a lecture from Miss Anna E. Dickinson, under the auspices of the Old Bay State Division. There was a large audience. She entitled her lecture” Flood-tide," taking the idea from Shakespeare's lines-
"There is a tide in the affairs of men,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune”;
applying the thought to the condition of our country at the present time. The country was in condition to push on to prosperity, but there were those who were tired of effort, and while we hesitated the tide was ebbing away. We must put at the mast-head ”Liberty, Equality, Fraternity," and go forth a beacon to the world. The people wanted a leader-a man who could shut his teeth clear down and through, without wrinkling his forehead. The Democratic party were opposed to giving suffrage to the negro, and the Republican party would make no issue on that question. Looking candidly at both parties, she could only ask, as the boy did at the menagerie, ”Which is the man, and which is the monkey!” There was no other question at issue now but negro suffrage. Slavery would live so long as the negro was without a vote. If the President had a right to disfranchise one portion of the community, he had the right to enfranchise another portion. He was a loose interpreter of the law when an ex-rebel was to be benefited by it, and a careful interpreter when an ex-slave had anything to gain. She said she was not waging war with the President. It could not be expected that a Tennessee tailor would take any position beyond what the radicals of Massachusetts demanded of him. She severely criticised his address to a negro regiment of the District of Columbia, and thought the advice as to decency and chastity and obedience to the law would be more appropriate spoken to some of his visitors from the South.

THE POOR AT RICHMOND.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-The writer of the following letter was a slave on a James river plantation in Virginia until 1848, when, obtaining his freedom, he came, with a company of others, to Boston, where he has since resided until within this year, and where he is known to many as a man of excellent character, self-respecting and respected by others. While a slave, he was also a preacher among his people, and since he became free, he has exercised somewhat his gifts in that respect, and has been laboring in that capacity in Richmond, from the time of the capture of that city. He has just entered into an engagement with a very large (colored) Baptist congregation there, to serve them as their minister for a year. He writes to me as follows:-
RICHMOND, (Va.) Oct. 12, 1865.
DEAR SIR-I have taken my pen to-day to let you know how we are getting along in Richmond.
We are still laboring under many disadvantages in Richmond, and in the country places the slaveholders are still in rage against us, and treat the colored people very bad. The people of the North do not know what the people of color suffer here. Those who are at work scarcely get enough to keep body and soul together, while the old slaveholders make them pay high for the houses they live in. It seems to me impossible for the poor here to live through the coming winter, except something is done for them. I wish you could come here, and see them for yourself. I cannot go out into the country places, for it would not be safe to do so, but I hear from the country constantly. The cases of destitution are so many that I cannot begin to help them. Sir, I hope God will put it into the hearts of our Northern people to help the poor colored people here. Some of them can help themselves, but others cannot; and the slaveholders are putting every hindrance in their way, trying to make us odious, and freedom a failure. Only last Sabbath they raised a mob against a large company of the colored people, who went to the river to baptize, and undertook to drive them away; and when the trial came on, the colored people had to take the blame, as usual. My heart is with my suffering people here, and I could write you much more, but fear to weary you. Please let me hear from you soon.
Yours, truly, PETER RANDOLPH.
This is a plain, unadorned tale; but I doubt not a true one, and that he has only too much reason to write sorrowfully. Certainly, the coming winter is to be the trying one for the freedmen of the South everywhere. Those of your readers who may have something to spare for the exigency at Richmond above described, can send it to me, if they please, at “Liberator office, Boston, Mass.," and I will acknowledge the same, and have it safely conveyed to Mr. Randolph.
Very truly, your friend,
SAMUEL MAY, JR.
The Index, of Pittsburg, publishes the subjoined extract from a private letter to one of its editors, from Gen. Lee:-
"It should be the object of all to avoid controversy, to allay passion, give free scope to reason and every kindly feeling. By doing this, and encouraging our citizens to engage in the duties of life with all the heart and mind, with the determination not to be turned aside by thoughts of the past or fears of the future, our country will not only be restored in material prosperity, but be advanced in science, in virtue and religion."
Well may Gen. Lee scout controversy, when he sees the Executive of the nation sympathetically pardoning the vilest unrepentant rebels, and places of honor and profit in the government filled by wretches whose hands are wreeking with the blood of the loyal men of the country. Pity the mantle of the lamented Lincoln could n't have fallen on shoulders worthy to wear it.
The Board of Overseers of Harvard College have voted, 18 to 4, to accept the act of the last Legislature, dissolving the connection of the College with the Commonwealth. The dissolution, which was made contingent upon the action of the Board, is therefore now consummated.
<c06>
COLORED CONVENTION IN NORTH CAROLINA.
[Special Correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune.]
RALEIGH, N. C., Sept. 29, 1865.
The Convention of the Colored People of North Carolina, so long expected, so novel to the white people, and looked forward to as inaugurating great and dreaded innovations, met here to day, and has spent the first day in peaceably organizing for the business before it. The counties along the seaboard and sounds, and those lying accessible by railroad to the capital, are generally represented. Probably, one hundred and fifty delegates, who were appointed by meetings and in formal bodies of the free people, are present. Some bring credentials; others had as much as they could do to bring themselves, having to escape from their homes stealthily by night, and walk long distances, so as to avoid observation, such was the opposition manifested to the movement in some localities.
From Newbern, Beaufort, and Wilmington, there are full delegations-among them several ministers of intelligence, eloquence, and influence. Judged by ordinary rules, the Convention contains a more than average amount of intelligence and ability, and all seem to have come together with an earnest wish and determination to do their best for the interests of their race. No outward opposition has been manifested by the citizens to their assembling, though there is evidently a strong under-current of feeling adverse to the whole affair. The Progress this morning uttered its solemn warning to the colored people to be careful what they did. The Eastern Counties, which have longest enjoyed freedom and the protection of the army, are evidently ahead of their less favored brethren in the central and western portion of the State, who have more recently emerged from slavery, though they are not superior to them in intelligence and in the proper appreciation of ”the situation," and the best means to be adopted for their mutual elevation.
The call for the Convention originated at Newbern, and the people hereabout were scarcely consulted upon the subject. Here they deemed it impolitic and unwise to call the Convention so near to, and preceding, the Constitutional Convention of the State, but were overruled. They are more cautious and moderate in their demands, while the delegates from below seem disposed to demand everything in the way of civil rights. One delegate from New Hanover County, Wilmington, even proposes to demand admittance to the White Convention, under instructions from his constituents. This conduct is so absurd and foolish, and likely to result so badly for the colored people, the Convention has already set its seal of condemnation upon the project.
The Convention assembled in the Loyal African M. E. Church, sometimes called the Lincoln Church, from the fact that they have a statue of the martyr President, with a quotation from his last inaugural, ornamenting the building. The Convention was called to order by Mr. Galloway, and John Good of Newbern was appointed temporary President. A committee of five on Credentials was appointed; a Committee of seven upon Rules for the Government of the Convention; and another upon Permanent Organization, of which J. W. Hood was Chairman. Some complaint and discussion arose upon the disposition manifested to give undue influence on the committees to Craven and other lower counties, and before the committee were prepared to report, the Convention adjourned to 2 o'clock, P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Upon motion of Mr. J. H. Harris, they voted unanimously to make it a mass convention, and permit all who had come in good faith as delegates to take seats.
The Committee on Permanent Organization reported for the officers of the Convention the following: For President, J. W. Hood; for Vice President, J. P. Shooks; for Secretary, John Randolph, Jr.; for Assistant Secretary, W. Cawthorn; for Treasurer, J. R. Caswell; for Chaplain, Rev. Alex. Bass of Raleigh. The Vice Presidents were increased to seven, and a committee of two was appointed to conduct the President to the chair.
SPEECH OF THE PRESIDENT.
Upon taking the chair, the President, J. W. Hood, said he scarcely knew what language to employ to express to the Convention his sense of the honor they had conferred upon him by selecting him to preside over their deliberations. There had never been before and there would probably never be again so important an assemblage of the colored people of North Carolina as the present, in its influence upon the destinies of this people for all time to come. They had assembled from the hill-side, the mountains and the valleys, to consult together upon the best interests of the colored people,-their watchwords, ”Equal Rights before the Law." They should act respectfully toward all men, the rowdy as well as the gentleman, in and out of doors. He hoped all rash or hard or personal epithets would be avoided. He was an adopted citizen; had sojourned only two years in the State; but it not a citizen of North Carolina, he did not know where he could obtain it. They must live here with the white people; all talk of exportation, expatriation, colonization and the like was simple nonsense. We have, he said, lived here over 150 years, and must continue to do so. We must harmonize our feelings. Respectful conduct begat respect. The major part of the people, both white and black, were gentlemen and ladies. If we respected ourselves, we would be respected. Though we may not gain all at once, we have waited long enough to do so. Some even thought slavery was not yet abolished. The sooner they gave the people their rights, the sooner, he believed, they would know how to exercise them. Three or four things were wanted. First, the right to testify in the courts of justice. Second, to be received into the jury-box. The Constitution of the United States, and of the several States, guarantied to all persons accused of crime the right of trial before a jury of his peers. The colored man was his peer, and he claimed that he should be permitted to sit on a jury where a colored man was to be tried. Third, the right of colored men to act as counsel in the courts for the black man. Fourth, to carry the ballot.
These are the rights we will contend for, these the rights we will have, God being our helper,. (Applause.)
One-half of the gallery was set apart for the use of the ladies. Two marshals were appointed, and a committee of three to invite Col. Eliphalet Whittlesey, the agent of the Freedmen's Bureau; Gov. Holden, and Gen. Ruger, commanding the Department, to address the Convention.
Mr. J. A. Harris announced that the correspondent of The Tribune present had a large number of that valuable paper with him, containing Mr. Greeley's excellent address to the colored people of the State which would be distributed at the proper time to the delegates of the Convention; and the address would also be read to-morrow.
Some further business was transacted, and the Convention adjourned until to-morrow morning. A public meeting will be held this evening, at which addresses will be made.
EVENING MEETING-CONCILIATORY ADDRESSES.
There was a crowd of both sexes which filled to repletion all parts of the house in the evening to listen to public addresses.
The speech of the evening was an off-hand, but well-considered effort by Mr. Jas. Harris, a native of Raleigh, and late the delegate from the league here to the Convention at Cleveland. Mr. Harris labored to show the colored people that their best friends were the intelligent white class in the South, and not the people at the North. That their freedom had been achieved by a law of necessity, as a military measure, and not by a benevolent crusade of the Northern army, as many supposed. He cited the prejudice prevailing at the North which shut the colored man out from every avenue of employment, while in the South every branch of industry in the mechanic arts and the cultivation of the soil was open to him. There
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
had never been such exhibitions of diabolical and murderous hate exhibited toward the colored race in the history of the world as were developed in the New York mobs of 1863, and in other Northern cities. It was no place for the colored man to look for an <illegible> They must remain where they were, and work out their destiny side by side with the white man. They could not and would not migrate or be colonized. He had travelled 40,000 miles in search of a better country-he had made the circuit of the West India islands and gone over Africa, but he had now returned to his native State of North Carolina, where he intended to live, to die, and be buried. He counselled moderation, kindness, and a patient and respectful demeanor toward the whites, and the effort to make their interests mutual, showing them they (the colored people) were not their enemies, but friends. The past should be buried in oblivion, and the future only engage their efforts to improve and elevate themselves. The speech was in the happiest vein, and kept the house in a roar of merriment. Its effect was most happy upon the minds of the multitude, and must do much to disabuse them of many false and injurious <illegible> He was not in favor of making large demands at this time for their rights, but allow the present misunderstanding and consequent ill-feeling to <illegible> when they would be sure to receive what they had a right to claim. God was on their side, and he (Mr. H.) saw a glorious future before the colored race in the Southern States.
He was followed by Mr. Galloway of Newbern, who also made a very happy speech, sustaining in the main the same train of argument. The meeting closed at a late hour in the best of humor. E. S.
SECOND DAY. The Convention reassembled at 91/2 A. M. and was opened by religious exercises by the Rev. Alexander Bass, Chaplain of the Convention. The hymn commencing,
"Blow ye the trumpet, blow,
The gladly solemn sound," &c.
was sung, the minister lining the hymn Prayer was offered and the business commenced by a call of the roll of the Convention, and completing the list of delegates. Delegates were found to have reported from Craven, Duplin, Edgecomb, Halifax, Carteret, Wayne, Warren, Gates, Robinson, Wake, Pitt, Harnet, Cumberland, Beaufort, New-Hanover, Pasquotant, Perquiminous, Franklin, Camden, Granville, Orange, Caswell, Person, Rockingham, Johnson, Bertie, Guilford and Rutherford counties.
Upon motion of J. H. Harris, a special committee of five was appointed to prepare an address to the Constitutional Convention.
J. H. Harris, as Chairman, John Randolph, Jr., the Rev. George A. Rue, Isaac Swett and John R. Gove were appointed the Committee, with instructions to report to this Convention on Monday morning.
The Business Committee made a report, the substance of which may be summed up as follows:-
Congratulation of one another and the friends of equal rights throughout the State upon the assembling of so large a number of delegates from all parts of the State.
Declaring unworthy of confidence or respect any colored man or woman who would not do for a colored person what they would for a white person under the same circumstances.
Advising against the crowding into the towns and cities, and declaring the first wants of the colored people to be employment at fair wages, in various branches of industry. To secure lands and to cultivate them, and lay up their earnings against a rainy day. Advising the colored people to educate themselves and their children, not alone in book learning, but in a high moral energy, self-respect, and in a virtuous, Christian, and dignified life.
A resolution to appoint a committee of three to wait on the Constitutional Convention to present an address, and labor to secure favorable legislation, was laid on the table.
Several brief and sensible speeches were made, which exhibited an intelligent appreciation of affairs, and an excellent tact in debate.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Mr. Galloway, of the committee to invite the attendance of Gov. Holden, Gen. Ruger, and Cols. Whitetlesey and Clapp, of the Freedmen's Bureau, made report.
Gov. Holden told the Committee he was their friend, and he intended to stand by his proclamation touching the freedom of the colored race and their rights to protection, education, &c. He was too busy to attend the Convention.
Gen. Ruger had just returned from a leave, and the great accumulation of business during his absence would require his constant attention. He could not come.
Col. Clapp of the Freedmen's Bureau came into the Convention, and addressed them in a few encouraging words. Monday evening was set apart to listen to a more extended address from him.
The Business Committee made a final report, as follows: First, an excellent letter from the Hon. Wm. H. Coleman, of Concord, Cabarras Co., was read, in which he took strong ground in favor of the full enfranchisement of the freed people, as a matter of right, and national and State expediency and justice. Mr. Coleman was a member of the State Legislature in 1854, and was then known as a most enlightened and liberal gentleman, and a friend of the enslaved. He is now greatly proscribed in his own home by the ultra pro-slavery and rebel portion of the community which he lives.
On motion of Mr. J. H. Harris, the address of Hon. Horace Greeley to the colored people of North Carolina was then read to the Convention, and was greeted with applause.
Mr. Harris moved that the address be received, placed on the records, and published with the proceedings of the Convention. Adopted.
The Rev. Mr. Bass moved a vote of thanks of the Convention to Mr. Greeley for his very timely and friendly address, which was also adopted.
The Tribune containing the document was distributed to the members of the Convention.
The following resolutions concluded the report of the Business Committee:-
Resolved, That we are in favor of our Government and the Union against all enemies at home or abroad; that our fathers fought to establish and we will fight to maintain them; that we will not hesitate in the prompt performance of our duty to the nation in her hour of peril; and that we will prove by our habits of industry and respectability, that we are worthy of citizenship among the people of North Carolina.
Resolved, That we hail the event of Emancipation, the establishment of the Freedmen's Bureau, protecting the interests of the colored people of the South-the recognition of the independence of Hayti and the Republic of Liberia-the admission of Mr. Rock to the bar of the Supreme Court-the establishment of schools for more than 75,000 freed children-the proposed amendment of the Federal Constitution, and its endorsement by various State Legislatures-the progress of an enlightened sentiment of moral obligation and progress of Republican liberty-with joy and thanksgiving, as turning a bright page in our history, &c.
Resolved, That we hail with satisfaction the efforts of that portion of the Republican party of which Messrs. Chase and Sumner and Stevens and Greeley are the heads, to secure to the colored citizens their rights through the action of Congress, against any and all who oppose those rights.
Resolved, That we view with pride the rapid progress that is making on the part of our young men in the glorious cause of education, in the pursuit of all honorable industry, the organization of Lyceums, &c.; also thanking various editors who were publishing papers devoted to equal rights for all men.
Resolved, finally, That we hail to-day's issue of the Journal of Freedom, published in this city by Mr. Brooks, with joy; we value his able editorials, and will give him our cordial support.
A collection was taken up to defray expenses, and the Convention adjourned, after appointing Messrs. Sampson and Rue to address the public meeting in the evening.
RALEIGH, Oct. 1.
The delegates of the Constitutional Convention are nearly all here, prepared to enter upon their duties
<c02>
to morrow. Out of the whole number elected from the 85 counties, only two are said to have obtained their seats with the knowledge of their constituents that they would favor the admission of negro testimony in courts of justice. No candidate dared to come before the people as the advocate of equal rights, or the right of suffrage for the negro.
There was a caucus of some twenty members, last night, at the Yarborough House, at which a decision was come to that they would support no candidates for Congress from this State who had not been true to the Southern cause during the Rebellion.
The Convention of Colored People will probably close on Monday evening, when Col. E. Whittlesey, of the Freedmen's Bureau, will make an address to them.
The following is the form of the address which the Committee have agreed in substance to report for presentation to the Convention of the State, and which, with slight modifications, will no doubt be adopted:-
TO THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION OF NORTH CAROLINA, AND THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE:
Assembled as delegates from different portions of the State, and representing a large body of the colored population thereof, we most respectfully and humbly beg leave to represent to you, and through you to the people of North Carolina, something of our situation and our wants as a people.
Earnestly disclaiming all wish to forestall your action, or to dictate in the solemn and important duties which have been entrusted to you in this most critical period; and confiding in your justice, wisdom and patriotism to guard the interests of all classes, and more particularly of that class which, being most helpless, will most need your just and kind consideration, they but exercise the rights guaranteed to the humblest citizen in this their petition.
It is with reverent and grateful acknowledgment of the divine favor and interposition that we accept the precious boon of freedom. Resulting as it has from a prolonged and bloody struggle of two great powers, and finally decreed by the national will, we look forward with confidence to see the decree ratified by the whole people of this State.
Though it was impossible to remain indifferent spectators of the struggle, you will do us the justice to admit that we have remained throughout obedient and passive, acting such part only as has been assigned us, and calmly waiting upon Providence. Our brethren have fought on the side of the Union, while we have been compelled to serve in the camp, to build fortifications, and raise subsistence for the Confederate army. Do you blame us that we have meantime prayed for freedom to our race?
Just emerging from bondage, under which our race has groaned for 250 years, and suffering from its consequent degradation, we are fully conscious that we possess no power to control legislation in our behalf, and must depend wholly upon moral appeals to the hearts and consciences of the people of the State Born upon the same soil, and raised in an intimacy of relationship with you, which is unknown in any other state of society, we have formed attachments for the white race which must be as enduring as life; and we can conceive of no reason why our God bestowed freedom should now sever the kindly ties which have so long united us.
Filled with gratitude to God for his great blessings, we would bury in oblivion the wrongs of the past, and wish to become more united than ever, and more useful in all the relations of life.
We are fully conscious that we cannot long expect the presence of government agents, or of the troops, to secure us against evil treatment from unreasonable prejudices and unjust men, yet we have no desire to look abroad for protection and sympathy. We know that we must find both at home and among the people of our own State, and merit them by our industry, sobriety and respectful demeanor, or suffer long and grievous evils. We acknowledge with gratitude that there are those among former slave-masters who have promptly conceded our freedom, and have manifested a just and humane disposition toward their former slaves. We think no such persons, or very few, at least, have lost their working hands by desertion. At the same time, it must be known to you that many planters have either kept the freedmen in doubt, wholly denied his freedom, or grudgingly conceded it, and while doing so, have expelled his family from the plantations which they have cleared and enriched by their toil through long and weary years. Some have withheld a just compensation, or have awarded such pay as would not support the laborer and his family. Others have driven their hands away without any pay at all, or even share of the crops they have raised.
Women with families of children, whose husbands have been sold, have died, or have wrongfully deserted them, have in some cases been driven away from the homes where, under slavery, they have spent a life-time of hard service. Is it just or Christian thus to thrust out upon the cold world helpless families to perish? These grosser forms of evil we believe will correct themselves, under wise and humane legislation, but we do most respectfully urge that some suitable measures may be adopted to prevent unscrupulous and avaricious employers from the practice of these and other similar acts of injustice towards our people.
Our first and engrossing concern in our new relation is how we may provide shelter and an honorable subsistence for ourselves and families. You will say work; but without your just and considerate aid, how shall we secure adequate compensation for our labor? If the friendly relations which we so much desire shall prevail, must there not be mutual cooperation? As our longer degradation cannot add to your comfort, make us more obedient as servants, or more useful as citizens, will you not aid us by wise and just legislation to elevate ourselves?
We desire education for our children, that they may be made useful in all the relations of life. We most earnestly desire to have the disabilities under which we formerly labored removed, and to have all the oppressive laws which make unjust discriminations on account of race or color wiped from the statutes of the State. We invoke your protection for the sanctity of our family relations. Is this asking too much? We most respectfully and earnestly pray that some provision may be made for the care of the orphan children, and the helpless and infirm, who, by the new order of affairs, will be thrown upon the world for protection. Also, that you will favor, by some timely and wise measures, the reunion of families which have long been broken up by war, or by the operations of slavery.
Though associated with many memories of suffering, as well as of enjoyment, we have always loved our homes, and dreaded as the worst of evils, a forcible separation from them. Now that freedom and a new career are before us, we love this land and people more than ever before. Here we have toiled and suffered; our parents, wives and children are buried here; and in this land we will remain, unless forcibly driven away.
Finally, praying for such encouragement to our industry as the proper regulation of the hours of labor, and the providing of the means of protection against rapacious and cruel employers, and the collection of just claims, we commit our cause into your hands, invoking Heaven's choicest blessings upon your deliberations and upon the State.
J. H. HARRIS, Chairman.
JOHN R. GOOD, 
GEORGE A. RUE,
IRAM SWETT,
J. RANDOLPH, JR.} Committee.
OHIO ELECTION. Returns from all the counties give Cox a majority of 28,287, while the average majority on the State ticket is 30,000. The Legislature stands: Union 25, Democrats 12, in the Senate; and 70 Union to 35 Democrats in the House. The soldiers' vote will not be counted until next month.
The results of the elections in Pennsylvania and Iowa are equally cheering.
<c03>
ANDERSONVILLE.
To the Editors of the Boston Daily Advertiser:-
At the Wirz trial, a day or two ago, the witness then on the stand-
"Said that a party of prisoners in whose company he arrived at Andersonville were ordered to place their blankets, haversacks, knapsacks, &c., in one place, when an officer mounted on a gray horse rode up and told the confederate soldiers to help themselves, and let the prisoners have the remainder. The confederates helped themselves, and there was nothing left. He was not certain whether the mounted officer was Capt. Wirz or not.”
The uncertainty as to this mounted officer's name is fully removed, the description of his confederate followers and a comprehensive statement of the Andersonville system being supplied by another witness whose testimony is on permanent record elsewhere, as follows: (See Revelation, c. vi. v. 8 )
"And I looked, and behold a pale horse, and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him, and power was given unto them to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth." SALEM.

RELEASE OF PROMINENT REBELS.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE, Oct. 11, 1865.
Whereas, the following named persons, to wit: John A. Campbell of Alabama, John H. Reagan of Texas, Alexander H. Stephens of Georgia, George A. Trenholm of South Carolina, and Charles Clark of Mississippi, lately engaged in rebellion against the United States government, who are now in close custody, have made their submission to the authority of the United States, and applied to the President for pardon under his proclamation;
And whereas, the authority of the Federal government is sufficiently restored in the aforesaid States to admit of the enlargement of the said persons from close custody, it is ordered that they be released on giving their respective paroles to appear at such time and place as the President may designate, to answer any charge that he may direct to be brought against them, and that they also will respectively abide, until further orders, in the places herein designated, and not depart from them.
John A. Campbell, in the State of Alabama; John H. Reagan, in the State of Texas; Alexander H. Stephens, in the State of Georgia; George H. Trenholm, in the State of South Carolina; and Charles Clark, in the State of Mississippi. And if the President should grant his pardon to any of said persons, such person's parole will thereby be discharged.
ANDREW JOHNSON, President.
NASHVILLE, TENN., 12th. The following are the resolutions endorsing the Administration, which were tabled by a vote of 35 to 26 in the House of Representatives:
Resolved, That we do hereby approve and heartily endorse the administration of President Johnson, President of the United States, and hereby promise him our faithful and unflinching support in carrying out his policy in organizing the government of the Southern States.
Resolved, That the letter of instruction to Gov. H lden of North Carolina, in which he declares that returned Confederate soldiers who have been paroled and taken the oath prescribed by him, and who do not come within any of the exceptions named by him in his proclamation of amnesty, shall be restored to all the rights, privileges and immunities of complete citizenship, is a wise, just, liberal and statesmanlike policy, and contains the true solution of our present unhappy condition, and faithfully sustained and carried out by the people will lead us to peace, happiness and prosperity.
Resolved, That in our present difficulties we look to President Johnson with hope and confidence, and that we have full and implicit faith in his statesmanship and patriotism, and firmly believe his policy, iron will and unyielding patriotism will restore order and fraternity among the people, bring peace to the country and prosperity to the nation.
Resolved, That the Speaker of this House be requested to furnish a copy of these resolutions to the President of the United States, and also that he furnish copies to each of the Governors of the several States of the Union.
The following resolution was adopted in place of the above by a vote of sixty to four:
Resolved, That we endorse the administration of His Excellency Hon. Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, especially his declaration that treason shall be made odious and traitors punished.
The Raleigh (N. C.) Progress gives the following estimate of the number of men enlisted in the South, and either killed or disabled during the war. It is a most appalling record:-
States. Enlistments. Dead and disabled.
Alabama, 120,000 70,000
Arkansas, say 52,000 30,000
Florida, 7,000 10,000
Georgia, 131,000 76,000
Kentucky, say 50,000 30,000
Louisiana, say 60,000 34,000
Mississippi, 78,000 45,000
Missouri, say 40,000 24,000
Maryland, say 40,000 24,000
North Carolina, 140,000 85,000
South Carolina, 65,000 40,000
Tennessee, say 60,000 34,000
Texas, say 93,000 53,000
Virginia, say 180,000 105,000
Total, 1,124,000 660,000
Is it not an awful computation? Six hundred and sixty thousand men dead and disabled; and yet this frightful number probably far below the actual aggregate! How terrible a price the South has paid for her madness! How great is the crime of the few reckless and ambitious politicians who led the people into this wicked rebellion!
The Commercial Advertiser has a letter from Nashville, Tenn., of the 9th ult., which says:
"The' high-tones,' as the Western soldiers call the ‘chivalry,' make many asseverations, of an intended loyalty, but I notice that the officers of the Union army, who have established themselves here, generally distrust them. A young cavalry officer, who has married a Southern wife and settled here, near her friends, declared to me the other day that if our forces were withdrawn from Nashville to day at noon, he would leave before night. All seem to agree that our firmest allies are the contrabands. A gentleman spoke to me of the western army as being' abolitionzed.' Another officer said,’ As between the nigger and the white man, I'm for the white man; as between the nigger and the secessionist, I'm for the nigger.’
Among the Northerners on the ground here, both soldiers and civilians, so far as I have seen, I can trace no opposition to negro suffrage. All seem to regard it as a proper enough and perhaps needful set off to the compulsory, untrustworthy loyalty of the 'hightones,' and the ignorance of the poor whites."
"PLAIN QUESTIONS. The Cecil, Md., Whig has some plain questions, to which the heart of every loyal man will respond with instinctive correctness:
Which is the best citizen-the white man who staid at home during the rebellion, and gave his influence to "the South;" or the black man who went to the batt1e-field, and gave his assistance to the Government?
Which is the most loyal-the white man who by words justified and abetted the rebellion; or the black man who by deeds aided in crushing it?
Which is most entitled to the ballot-the white man who has fought four years to destroy the government; or the black man who has fought, ever since we would permit him, to preserve it?
Which are most entitled to all the rights and privileges of citizenship-the white rebels whose bullets brought death to many of our fathers, brothers, and loved ones; or the black loyalists whose bullets caused many of those white rebels to bite the dust, and aided materially in restoring peace to the country?
NEGRO TROOPS. The New York Tribune has the following:
Gen. Grant said of negro troops:-“For guard duty and picket duty, on the march and in an assault, I consider the negro troops surpassed by no soldiers in the world, and equaled by very few." "But," queried a listener," does not that include all you can say of a soldier?" "Nearly, but not quite all," responded the Lieutenant General; "what remains is, the ability to endure the steady pounding of a protracted campaign," “Yes," said another questioner, "but if the negroes are good for everything else, why not for that?" "I don't say they are not," rejoined Gen. Grant; "I only say they have not been tried."
The parties to that conversation were Gen. Grant, Edwin M. Stanton and Henry Ward Beecher, and we had it from the lips of the latter. We don't think the negro troops are in need of a certificate even from Gen. Grant, but we print the foregoing for the benefit of such papers as like to be sure of a respectable endorsement before they make up their opinions.-N. Y. Tribune.
THE ABUSES OF NEGROES IN MARYLAND. A letter has been received at the Freedmen's Bureau from Governor Bradford, of Maryland, in relation to alleged abuses the negroes in the lower counties of that State. Affidavits having been transmitted to the Governor detailing the character of the injuries done, he writes that he has promptly referred them to the prosecuting attorneys of the above counties, with instructions to prosecute the offenders at once.
<c04>
HANDSOME RECEPTION OF A COLORED REGIMENT. No more imposing spectacle has been presented to the citizens of New York since the commencement of the return of our soldiers than was witnessed on Tuesday afternoon in the march of the 11th United States colered Heavy Artillery, Col. Sypher, up Broadway, preceded by a Brass Band of some thirty pieces and a drum corps of equal number, all colored. The regiment, numbering over 1600, in overcoats, knapsacks. and white gloves, marched in solid column with a steadiness and regularity that drew the most enthusiastic plaudits from the thousands of spectators that lined each side of the street. The soldiers appeared to appreciate their reception, which was the warmest extended to any of our returning braves. They were escorted by a large delegation of colored citizens.
THE PIRATE SEMMES. A correspondent of the Springfield Republican, who is travelling down South, met the pirate Semmes, and thus describes him:-
"Semmes, whom loyal men call 'pirate' and rebels call 'admiral,' was on board, and I studied him closely to discover that noble, chivalric bearing which I have heard ascribed to him by those who used to be thrilled with rapture at his brave and gallant attacks upon unarmed whalers and merchantmen.
I think this bearing must have entirely left him when the Kearsarge bore down on the Alabama. To me he looked like a repentant sinner who had sinned a long time before the work of repentance began. On the whole, he is a cheap, rheumy-looking man of 55 years, the only expressive feature about him being his nose, which must have cost a great deal of money to bring to its present bright ruby color. He neither courted nor avoided observation, was travelling alone, and had little conversation with any one."
GENERAL HUMPHREYS, an unpardoned rebel, and who cannot take the oath ordained by the law of Congress, has been chosen Governor of Mississippi by the people of that State. We suppose that he will be sustained by the State militia, organized by the Provisional Governor, although the Provisional Governor's candidate was not elected. By all means, let the U. S. troops be withdrawn from the South!
In truth, this election is a practical illustration of Mississippi and Southern Unionism. A seemingly loyal constituency is obtained by a bounty on perjury, and then this constituency proceeds to choose persons notoriously unqualified by law for political office. Mississippi has obtained some eclat as a repudiator of money obligations, but all that it has financially done in the way of breaking its word is little in comparison with what it shows a disposition to do politically in the way of breaking its oath. It has not the decency to show that homage to virtue which the poet has put into the moral constitution of the perjured Thane. The "Amen" does not even stick in its throat. -Boston Transcript.
THE NEXT CONGRESS. The Chicago Republican publishes a complete list of the two Houses of the next Congress. In the Senate, twenty-five States are now represented by 38 Unionists and 11 Democrats According to the party division that existed before the war, the House of Representatives now stands 140 Unionists to 41 Democrats; but on the great question of at once admitting the Representatives of the Southern States, or keeping them, or most of them, for a longer period in probation, it is not probable that the same proportions, will be preserved. Should all the Southern States now without representation, whose Senators and Representatives are yet to be elected, choose Democrats opposed to universal suffrage, as is to be expected they will do, and should they all be admitted, the Senate will then contain forty-seven Unionists and twenty-seven Democrats; and the House of Representatives would contain one hundred and fifty Unionists to ninety-two Democrats.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT EXPECTS. Judge Bird, of Alabama, has lately visited Washington, and he writes a letter to the Mobile News, telling the people what the President expects of the reconstructing States, which is as follows:
1st. Declare the African race free by the organic law of the State. 2d. That each State will secure and guarantee by her constitution civil rights, to the freedmen; political rights, sitting on juries, &c., are not expected to be conferred on him at this time; these are matters to be left to the discretion of the several States. But the freedom of the African race and the guaranty of their civil rights are requisite to the reconstruction of State Government, and their readmission to the Union.
Gen. Burnside entered the war a Democrat, but has not been insensible to its teachings. In his speech at the Wool Manufacturers' Convention at Philadelphia on the 9th inst., he said:-
"I think the only thing to do now is to try to make our neighbors of the South, and every one else, to feel that we ought to grant to every freedman on this continent the right to help rule the land. And, while we grant this, let us ask Almighty God, who has assisted us so long, to influence all those who may have the right to vote, to vote on the right side." (Great applause.)
This has the ring of true democracy about it, but it is not what is called "democracy" now-a-days. The democracy, however, will do well to weigh the words of such true Democrats as Gen. Burnside. Sooner or later, they will wish they had, if they do not.-Honesdale Republican.
THE NEGROES AT ALEXANDRIA. Perhaps in a few places, says the National Intelligencer, have the colored race afforded by their industry and thrift more satisfaction to their well-wishers than in Alexandria. Here they have, out of their wages, within the past four years, built about twelve hundred dwellings, on leased lots mostly, and contributed, it is said, about five thousand dollars toward religious and educational establishments, and are now liberally contributing to support new enterprises of like character. They have, as we learn from old citizens of Alexandria, conducted themselves, as a class, with marked sobriety and good order. They are about eight thousand in number.
DEPARTMENT OF THE REBEL VICE PRESIDENT.
Alexander H. Stephens, late Vice President of the Southern Confederacy, left this city in the 8 1-2o'clock express train for New York this morning, en route to Washington. He was accompanied by his brother. A gentleman who conversed with him states that Mr. Stephens seemed to be in good health. He heartily endorsed President Johnson's administration, favoring his reconstruction policy in warm terms, expressed sorrow that a rebellion had occurred, and said that he had always been opposed to such a course, and did all in his power to avert it. Our informant states that at first he seems rather reserved, but rapidly warms up when talking of the United States, and his eyes manifest the deep interest he evidently feels in the future welfare of the country.-Boston Traveller of Tuesday.
A LEFT-HANDED COMPLIMENT. The New York Journal of Commerce, in commenting upon the defeat of negro suffrage in Connecticut, pays the people of that State the following dubious compliment:-
"The result is a very plain assertion of the people of Connecticut, that theirs at least is a State in which the government is a government of white men. It will not do to rail at this decision. The people of that State are notoriously the most intelligent people in all the United States. There is no State in advance of Connecticut either in education, intellect, wealth, or civilization. It is true, the religion of the State has been falling off, of late, but this has not been against the negro equality of ideas."
ENTERPRISING NEGROES. It is a matter of congratulation that we have so many energetic freedmen in our city; and while we occasionally indulge in condemning the lazy and trifling negro, we are pleased to know that there are others who are doing all in their power to make an honest and upright living. We might name a host of them who are engaged in business, and doing well. Jeff. Salisbury, a tailor; W. D. Banks, carriage and wagon maker; Wm. Clark has a grocery store; Wm. Campbell, brick mason, and many others who are worthy of public confidence and patronage. We are glad that such is the case, and shall take every opportunity to assist them in the prosecution of their business.-Macon (Ga.) Messenger.
Charley Johnson is a colored man, and has made a fortune right here on Main street, keeping the most popular resort in the city for those who patronize or frequent billiard saloons and restaurants. He does his business by hiring white men and women, almost exclusively, to help him; and his customers are all white; and though Charley is a stiff Republican Abolitionist, he is patronized by the leading copperheads of the city and county, showing that prejudice against color is a humbug when there are intelligence and cleanliness and popularity connected with it.-Fond du Lac Republican.
THE WHITE AND BLACK RACES. The N. Y. Post's special Washington despatch of the 11th inst. says the letter of Kenneth Raynor of North Carolina, already alluded to as favoring a separation of the white and black races, is published. He declares that if the separation is not made, the Southern States in ten years will relapse into barbarism, and asserts that the labor of the black race cannot be made available in the South. In North Carolina, he says, public opinion is unanimous in favor of separation, and the same view is rapidly gaining strength in the South. He also says there will not be 200 bales of cotton grown in North Carolina the present year. Stuff!
<c05>
LORD LYONS AND THE DEMOCRATIC LEADERS. There is one incident in the action of the Democratic party during the war, which should never be forgotten. We refer to the visit made by its leaders to the British Ambassador at Washington, in 1862. The following is the cautions account of it given by Lord Lyons himself, in a despatch to his government:
"Several of the leaders, of the Democratic party sought interviews with me, both before and after the arrival of the intelligence of Gen. McClellan's dismissal. The subject uppermost in their minds while they were speaking to me was naturally that of foreign mediation between the North and the South. If their own party were in power, or virtually controlled the Administration, they would rather, if possible, obtain an armistice without the aid of foreign governments; but they would be disposed to accept an offer of mediation, if it appeared to be the only means, of putting a stop to hostilities."
A list of the owners of the rebel loan in England has been published. Among those who invested, are several members of Parliament, two of the editors of the London Times, and two or three rebel pirate ship builders. They have been victimized to the amount of nearly $5,000,000, and now have the impudence to intimate that the United States Government is bound to pay the loan. Mr. Seward has issued instructions to Minister Adams that the United States is not responsible for the debt of the rebels, and that the cotton confiscated by our troops will not be turned over to these rebel Englishmen, as they have the impudence to demand. Mr. Seward hints that our government has not yet stooped so low as to regulate its affairs after the dictates of the British Court of Chancery or any other municipal tribunal in Great Britain.
The London Times indignantly denies the correctness of the list of Confederate bondholders which has been published in the American papers. Mr. Gladstone, the editor of the Morning Post, Mr. Laird and others also deny that they ever held any of the bonds.
Among the many interesting reminiscences connected with the war, few are more suggestive, in view of results, than the following extract from Jeff. Davis's proclamation of Dec. 23, 1863:
"Now, therefore, I, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America, and in their name, do announce and declare the said Benjamin F. Butler to be a felon deserving of capital punishment. I do order that he shall no longer be considered or treated simply as a public enemy of the Confederate States of America, but as an outlaw and common enemy of mankind, and that in the event of his capture, the officer in command of the capturing force do cause him to be immediately executed by hanging."
DISGRACEFUL. White wounded officers and soldiers on crutches hobble round the streets of Washington in search of employment, while released rebels are receiving appointments to governmental offices. A few days since, a rebel named Frank Miner, who joined the fortunes of the Confederacy on the breaking out of the war, was appointed to a clerkship in the Second Auditor's office, and it is reported that John Hart, formerly public printer, and for many years the Washington correspondent of the Charles ton Mercury, has also received a snug berth in one of the departments. He has been living South during the war.
The N. Y. Times special, from Washington, sends the following oath taken by Gen. Lee:
OFFICE OF NOTARY PUBLIC. 
ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY, Va., Oct. 2, 1865. 
I, Robert E. Lee, of Lexington, Va., do solemnly swear, in the presence of Almighty God, that I will henceforth faithfully support all laws and proclamations which have been made during the existing rebellion with reference to the emancipation of slaves. So help me God.
(Signed) R. E. LEE.
Subscribed to and sworn before me this 2d day of Oct. 1865. CHAS. A. DAVIDSON, Notary Public.
President Johnson is reported to have spoken as follows to a gentleman to whom he had granted an interview:-
"The Monroe doctrine is all right. I believe in it But there are greater principles at stake than those involved in that question. When the Union is restored, it will be time for talking about foreign aggressions on this continent. I shall do all I can to make the Southern people happy, and to palliate the bitterness of their defeat."
JAMES A. DIX, the editor of the Boston Journal, died on the 11th inst., at his residenca in this city, of consumption. Mr. Dix was an eminent representative of that large class of journalists who have passed from the compositors' room to the editorial chair; who have thoroughly mastered every part of their business, and whose minds and characters have been formed by practical acquaintance with affairs.
HARRISBURG, Pa., Oct. 14. An accident happened to the day express train going East, between here and Lancaster, this afternoon. Four cars were thrown from the track. Eight persons were killed, and two slightly injured. The accident was accasioned by a broken rail. The following is a list of the killed:-
Mrs. Barr, wife of James P. Barr, of Pittsburg; Sarah Willett of New Cumberland, Pa.; Col. Butler and wife of Lewiston, Pa.; W. H. Butler, clerk in the Surveyor General's office of Pennsylvania; Mrs. Uretts or Getta of Milwaukee; one lady unknown; two girls, 10 and 15 years old, unknown.
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 14. The loss of life by the explosion of the boiler of the steamer Yo Semite proves greater than at first reported. Twenty-two whites and thirty-two Chinamen were killed, and thirty-two whites wounded.
DR. MUDD ATTEMPTS TO ESCAPE. The steamship Daniel Webster, from New Orleans 22d ult., for New York, put into Fortress Monroe Oct. 9. She reports landing some prisoners at the Dry Tortugas, and that Dr. Mudd made an attempt to escape. He was found secreted in the coal bunkers of the steamer Thomas Scott, and was put to hard labor wheeling sand. The quartermaster of the Scott was arrested for having aided Mudd in his effort to escape.
The Pension Office had on its rolls October 1st, 41,248 invalid pensioners, and 59,627 widows.
A circular addressed by Earl Russell to the various diplomatic agents of the British Government, says, alluding to the continuance of the slave trade, "Her Majesty's Government, actuated by the horror to which so odious a commerce has given rise throughout the world, has arrived at the conclusion that nothing would be more efficacious for its repression than to visit those guilty of it with punishment proportioned to the gravity of the evil."
The property of Joseph F. Davis, brother of Jeff. Davis, and General Wm. T. Martin, both of the rebel army, has been restored to them.
MISSISSIPPI. A well-informed correspondent in Mississippi remarks, that if the rebel State militia organization is to go on, the Government would do well to be mustering in rather than mustering out United States troops.
It is supposed that Gen. Humphreys is chosen Governor of Mississippi. He is an old rebel, who has n't even been pardoned. Sich is life-in the South. P. S. The President whitewashed him yesterday, with his pardon brush.-Traveller.
Twenty-five planters are said to be under arrest at Vicksburg, all charged with either maltreating or killing their former slaves.
The population of Rhode Island is 184,953-an increase of 7810 since 1860.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 6. The Baltimore colored Odd Fellows paraded to-day, making a fine appearance. The turn-out was large. The procession marched to Monument square, where speeches were made from a finely-decorated stand.
NEW YORK, Oct. 17. At the fire last night on Bridge street, four thousand bales of cotton, with other goods, were destroyed. Loss $2,000,000 
MOBILE, Oct. 6. The planters' warehouse, with 4000 bales of cotton, was burnt last night by an incendiary fire. Loss $800,000, mostly covered by insurance. 
McGuessimith's warehouse was burned this morning, and 1800 bales cotton destroyed.
TEXAS. Governor Hamilton has restored the judiciary system of Texas, and proclaims that negroes and whites must stand on an equality before the courts.
The Democratic Convention of Louisiana approves of President Johnson's policy, says this is a white man's government, calls for a general amnesty, and asks that emancipated slaves may be paid for. Modest and moderate creatures they are, "’way down in Louisiana."
The rebel Gen. Pillow having been pardoned, is about to devote himself to the culture of cotton on a large plantation in Arkansas, which has not been confiscated. He promises to invite back the old laborers, and to pay them liberally.
The report that Ralph Waldo Emerson was a large loser by the robbery of the Concord Bank was unfounded.
The Freedman’s Bureau has leased in Louisiana 58 plantations to negroes and 57 to whites; in Mississippi, 113 to whites and 23 to negroes.
It is said that McCormick, the inventor of the famous reaping machine that bears his name, has recently died in an insane asylums in Illinois. Last fall, he was the Democratic candidate for Congress in the Chicago district.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth annual course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be continued in MUSIC HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Oct. 24-FREDERICK DOUGLASS, of Rochester 
31-HENRY WARD BEECHER, of Brooklyn.
Nov. 7-JACOB M. MANNING, of Boston.
14-ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
19-DAVID A. WASSON, of Boston.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting "One Person" to the course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street; Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and by the Lecture Committee.
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the course, for sale only at DITSON & COS, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (these to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both <illegible> to the other ticket-holders.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on "Peace," In Faltonville, Monday evening, Oct. 23; and in Marlboro’, Tuesday evening, Oct 24.
ANNUAL MEETING.-The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Horticultural Hall, West Chester, Oct. 27th, day and evening.
JAMES MOTT, President.
BENJAMIN C. BACON, Cor. Sec.
MARRIED-In this city, 3d inst., by Rev. A. L. Grimes, Mr. JOHN H. GLOUCESTER, formerly of Philadelphia, to Miss CHRISTIANA SHEPHERD, of Boston.
Anglo-Saxon, please copy.
DIED-In this city, on the 11th inst., Mr. URIAH RITCHIE, aged 66-one of the earliest and most uncompromising friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in Boston-a most industrious, enterprising and esteemed citizen-an independent and conscientious thinker-and that "noblest work of God, an honest man."
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acqusintance with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufactures; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent. per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED, 
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months.-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.

Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors-purity the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely eared by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they care, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costiveness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in bilary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce <illegible> or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m.

NEW ENGLAND
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Mcdica, Therapoutios and Chemistry; Minerva C. MerriamMeriam, M.: D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, $<illegible>5-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8. 3w
WEST NEWTON 
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL.
THE next term begins Wednesday, Sept. 6, 1865. For particulars, address NATH'L T. ALLEN.
Sept 1
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of say one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also <illegible> for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
HALTING.
Sir, you speak wisely; I admit
That Peace is blessed, that War is awful;
And that (if we nobly compass it)
The gain of Commerce is fair and lawful.
I grant that sickles and pruning-hooks
Are better than swords or battle-axes;
That wine and honey, and art and books,
Fail of the sting of debts and taxes.
But still if (now mark me!) it shall chance
That we have trafficked our splendid anger
For only a lean inheritance
Of outward lushness and inward languor-
Why, then, I say that I think 'twere well
If the shock of our armies were not over:
For the Lord made Men to conquer Hell,
And not to fatten, like kine, in clover.
If the Thrift you speak of, the Peace you land,
The tripled gains you count it, your pocket-
Clear dawning on us the Truth of God,
Strike dumb the jeering lips that mock it-
If they roll the stones from the living tombs
In which the brothers of Christ are trampled, 
And crown their centuried martyrdoms
With such true crowning as He exampled:
If your loud paeans o'er shotless guns 
Mean also glory unto the Father,
So that wherever our border runs
Justice and Mercy may run together;
Why, then, I answer that every song
You sing to the sweet Peace brooding o'er us,
Cleaving the ether, shall bear along
The added burden of my weak chorus.
Than this, no further: I am afeared.
I see an Infinite Splendor waiting;
I see an Infinite Terror reared-
I see a People hesitating
Between a narrowing shibboleth
And a cry that climbs to the sapphire portals;
Between low pacts that are crammed with death,
And a covenant with the Immortals.
For God’s dread tongues of terrible fire,
Eating the blackness that plucked our vitals,
And cast us prone in the hungry mire,
A-choke with agony-what requitals?
Behold! in lowliest human guise
The Master standeth-the hour is going;
We look with straight, incredulous eyes;
Our false lips move, and the cock is crowing.
Certes, our creditors need their dues;
But also the Heavens will have just payment:
If they arraign us, I think we lose
ALL-and not merely food and raiment.
It hurts (does it not?) when the flaming knives
Of a mad assassin hew and stab us?
Well-when the Messenger arrives,
Shall we send the NAZARENE-or Barabbas?
as W RICHARD REALF.

SOONER OR LATER.
Sooner or later the storm shall beat
Over my slumber from head to feet;
Sooner or later the winds shall rave
In the long grass above my grave.
I shall not heed them where I lie,
Nothing their sound shall signify,
Nothing the headstone's fret of rain,
Nothing to me the dark day's pain.
Sooner or later the sun shall shine
With tender warmth on that mound of mine,
Sooner or later in Summer air
Clover and violet blossom there.
I shall not feel in that deep-laid rest
The sheeted light fall over my breast,
Nor ever note in those hidden hours
The wind-blown breath of the tossing flowers.
Sooner or later the stainless snows,
Shall add their hush to my mute repose;
Sooner or later shall slant and shift,
And heap my bed with their dazzling drift.
Chill though that frozen pall shall seem,
Its touch no colder can make the dream
That recks not the sweet and sacred dread
Shrouding the city of the dead.
Sooner or later the bee shall come
And fill the noon with his golden hum;
Sooner or later, on half-paused wing,
The blue-bird's warble about me ring,-
Ring and chirrup and whistle with glee;
Nothing his music means to me,
None of these beautiful things shall know
How soundly their lover sleeps below.
Sooner or later, far out in the night,
The stars shall over me wing their flight;
Sooner or later my darkling dews
Catch the white spark in their silent ooze.
Never a ray shall part the gloom
That wraps me round in the kindly tomb;
Peace shall be perfect for lip and brow,
Sooner or later,-Oh, why not now?
HARRIET E. PRESCOTT.
-Atlantic Monthly for October.

NO TIME LIKE THE OLD TIME.
There is no time like the old time, when you and I were young,
When the buds of April blossomed, and the birds of springtime sung!
The garden's brightest glories by summer suns are nursed;
But oh, the sweet, sweet violets, the flowers that opened first!
There is no place like the old place where you and I were born,
Where we lifted first our eyelids on the splendors of the morn,
From the milk-white breast that warmed us, from the clinging arms that bore,
Where the dear eye glistened o'er us that will look on us no more!
There is no friend like the old friend who has shared our morning days,
No greeting like his welcome, no homage like his praise:
Fame is the scentless sun-flower, with gaudy crown of gold;
But friendship is the breathing rose, with sweets in every fold.
There is no love like the old love that we courted in our pride;
Though our leaves are falling, falling, and we're fading side by side,
There are blossoms all around us with the colors of our dawn,
And we live in borrowed sunshine when the light of day is gone.
There are no times like the old times,-they shall never be forgot!
There is no place like the old place,-keep green the dear old spot!
There are no friends like our old friends,-may Heaven prolong their lives!
There are no loves like our old loves,-God bless our loving wives!
-Ibid. O.W. HOLMES.

WE LOVE THE TRUTH.
We are the boys who love the truth,
And mean to speak it, come what may;
Falsehood is cowardly and base,
And God condemns the liar's way.
We'll strive to keep our conscience clear,
As on we pass through age or youth;
Where'er we are, whate’er we do,
We'll speak the truth, we'll speak the truth
We are the girls who won't desolve,
Our faults we'll not deny or hide;
Parents and teachers it would grieve,
If we should choose the wicked side.
No, no; we'll keep a conscience clear,
As on we pass through age or youth;
Whate'er we do, where’er we are,
We’ll speak the truth, we'll speak the truth.
<c02>
Selections.
THE MILITARY COMMISSION AT WASHINGTON.
At the head of the Military Commission sits the president, Maj.-Gen. Lew. Wallace, a man of medium height, but slight and wiry, with smooth, straight, black hair, beard worn upon the upper lip and chin, and eyes very black and piercing. Next upon the president's right sits Brevet Maj.-Gen. Gershom Mott, a fine-looking officer, with iron-gray hair smoothly brushed, and grizzled beard worn full, but short-clipped. In his face and bearing there appears not a little judicial dignity. Next in order, upon the same side of the table, sits Brevet Maj.-Gen. L. Thomas, of the regular army, an officer better known to the country, probably, than any other member of the commission. His hair, very gray, and almost white, brushed carelessly away from his forehead, and curling slightly about his lofty head, his clear and searching eye, and the vigorous though by no means severe expression of his features, give him a presence at once pleasing and commanding. He wears spectacles, and sits writing with a rather quick and nervous hand. Next to Gen. Thomas sits Brig. Gen. Briggs, and below him Col. Alcock, both men of middle age and soldierly bearing.
At the president's left, on the opposite side of the table, sits Brevet Maj. Gen. John W. Geary, a man of massive make, and of a frank and pleasant expression of face. He is well known to the country as the Governor of Kansas, who, in spite of the fanatical attempt of the Pierce administration to force slavery upon that territory by means of lawless ruffianism and outrageous usurpation, secured to the people some degree of justice, and contributed to make the doubtfully balanced scale incline to the side of freedom. It may not be so well known that he was the first Mayor of San Francisco, was proffered the Democratic nomination for Governor of California, at the first gubernatorial election held in that State; or that the General claims its free Constitution to be the offspring of his own mind. During the war, we have heard of him not seldom, especially since he marched with Sherman down to the sea. Next to him sits an officer much younger, yet not undistinguished by honorable deeds, Brig. Gen. Francis Fessenden, of Maine. During most of the war, he has faithfully and gallantly served the country, and lost a leg while fighting bravely to retrieve the disaster that overtook the ill-starred Red River Expedition. Then comes Brevet Brig. Gen. Ballier, a man of square, heavy make, keen black eyes, and stern expression, with a large scar upon his right cheek; and next him sits Lieut. Col. Stibbs, the youngest man, apparently, upon the Commission.
Behind a bar or railing, at the foot of the table, sits the Judge Advocate, Col. Chipman, with a very frank and pleasing face, partially concealed by a beard of light color and patriarchal length; while near him is the Assistant Judge Advocate, Major Hosmer, with a face indicative of no little quickness and legal acumen.
The Commission being now ready to commence the trial for the day, the order is given to bring in the prisoner. In a few moments the accused enters, closely guarded. Do we only imagine it, or is that slight, stooping form actually bowed beneath a load of odium too great for man to carry? Do we only imagine it, or is that hurried, shrinking glance, thrown by the prisoner around the court-room, as full of mortal fear and ghastly dread as if he had expected to see the murdered victims of the Andersonville slaughter-pen, risen and come to judgment, swift witnesses against their tyrant jailor? Do we only imagine it, or might those large keen black eyes easily, very easily, assume under the excitement of passion the ferocious glare of a panther's? Proceeding to a chair a little in the rear, and at one side of the table occupied by the court, the prisoner seats himself, while a soldier, with loaded musket and fixed bayonet, takes his place close behind him. The former, as we now see him, is slight of stature, swarthy and somewhat sallow in complexion, with straight, thin hair, once black, but now somewhat gray, put back behind his ears, forehead square but rather retreating, a mouth which seems to show firm lines in spite of the short, full beard. He is dressed rather negligently, in a well-worn suit, and sits in an attitude of constrained quiet and forced composure. His eyes, however, which close often, as if avoiding the scrutiny of the crowd, and wander constantly from one person or object to another, and his left hand, always busy supporting his head, or nervously fingering his mustache, beard, or a pencil, betray the restlessness within. His general appearance is anxious, depressed, and careworn, as well it may be, even should no vultures of remorse be secretly plucking at his heart.
To the record of yesterday's proceedings the prisoner gives such attention as one may well do whose life mayhap depends upon some word or sentence. Though the reading is evidently to him an infliction, yet, considering that it is a record to make a devil blush, he bears it with much fortitude. And now begin the day's revelations.  A witness is summoned, sworn, and, being seated near the foot of the table, and over against the prisoner, begins his testimony. What a triumph of Christian civilization is this, that such a criminal as Wirz can be confronted by his victims, and without the slightest fear of violence from them or the populace, and receive a trial as scrupulously fair as if he were but a common offender! The testimony, incredibly horrible as it would have seemed a few years since, is no longer strange. It is the same awful tale of the agonies of thirst in a land of streams, of hunger in the midst of comparative plenty, of torture by heat and cold, by filth unimaginable and  brutalities inconceivable, which tens of thousands of our murdered soldiers being dead yet speak, and which the skeleton forms of their survivors in tens of thousands have so proclaimed through all the land as to make an end of doubts. Every word is devoured by the miserable wretch on trial; and though he occasionally confers with or makes a suggestion to his counsel, he evidently feels that defence against such an accumulation of such evidence is a hopeless undertaking. And now comes the cross-examination, long, close, and searching. Here and there a palliating statement is educed, but the mass of the testimony remains as black as ever. Now an objection is raised by the Judge Advocate. Silently the members of the court write their ballots, and pass them to the president, who counts them, and announces that the objection is not sustained; and the examination goes on. Again a point of law is raised, and again, after debate by the opposing counsel, the silent ballots of the board decide the issue. So our hour wears away, and we rise to go. Loth we cannot be to leave a place so suggestive of painful thoughts and emotions, yet we turn to take a last look at the wretched prisoner. Alas for fallen greatness! To take his morning gallop around the stockade, with a pack of leaping and baying bloodhounds for congenial company, to consign hundreds to death most horrible by a single word, to reckon himself worth a thousand men in the field, the estimate seems singularly modest; to rule and reign over such a Tophet as God's green earth never saw before; all this a year ago, and now to sit a cowering criminal, execrated, loathed, doomed! Does he deserve “worse than death”? Perhaps so,-at any rate, he is now suffering it. What torture is this which he daily undergoes! How often at night does he start from his feverish sleep, in sweat and tremor, at some vision all too real! How often in dreams does he face the staring, pitiless crowd, gathered to see him die, and feel the rope around his neck, and the drop giving way beneath his clinging feet, and himself taking the last fearful plunge! O victims of Southern barbarism, whose flesh creeps at the remembrance of your prison pen; O desolate hearts, daring not to think how your beloved perished, doubt not that, so far as the sufferings of one guilty wretch can expiate your wrongs, they are even now being swiftly and surely avenged!
Sweet is the relief once more to breathe the pure outer air, musical with the sounds of honest and cheerful labor; to pass along the streets, busy and bustling, and to mingle with crowds in which no face reveals the terrors of remorse and fear. And yet, amid all the din and distractions of the city, one thought remains fast fixed within us. He to whom vengeance belongs will surely repay, and “the way of transgressors is hard.” T. S. P.
Washington, Sept 1865. -Chicago Tribune.
The Pardon Mill is in full operation, and daily hundreds of rebels, red as Union blood can make them are ground over in it, coming out white as snow. President Johnson has kindly had a stamp made, with which he signs pardons swiftly. He should have it “go by steam," in order that the work may be the more speedily done.-Boston Traveller.
<c03>
JUSTICE.
Our readers have not failed to notice the statements respecting white and colored laborers in the city of Baltimore. Whites refuse to work with blacks. It is not very strange that such should be the case in a city so long the capital of a slave State, and so late the hot-bed of secession; and we know that the prejudice against the negro is not confined to the States where he has been a slave. But things are not now as they were-our country is entering upon a new experience, and new issues are coming before the people. We must forget the things which are behind, and press forward to those which are before. The workingmen's movement is a birth of the new conditions in which the country is placed, and to succeed it must maintain its relation to those conditions, and not do violence to the spirit that called it forth.
On what is our movement based? On one idea-JUSTICE. We demand justice-just wages and just treatment as citizens. We hold that the employer is no more favored of God or the constitution of the country than the employee,-that the former has no more right to wealth, and its comforts and luxuries, than the latter. We point to the fact that labor produces all wealth, and we claim our just share of the product. If we are ignorant, we say, let us have our rights, that we may not be forced to continue in ignorance. We say that no man, because he is stronger, has any right to tread us under foot. We ask no favors, but our rights-the right to work and the right to enjoy our earnings.
Now it is obvious if we demand our own rights as men, we must concede to other men theirs. If we insist that employers are no better than we, we must not pretend to be better than others. If we claim justice, we must do justice. We cannot succeed on any other ground. To attempt to do so is to tear away the very foundation on which we essay to build. “A child might understand” that if we are not willing to do justice, we can never hope to get it. 
The workingmen's success is simply impossible without united and harmonious action. If the machinest says to the wielder of the pick and shovel, I will not associate with you,-if you want better wages, you must get it on your own hook; if the clerk says to the coal-heaver, between you and me there is a gulf fixed; or if the white says to the black, I do not recognize you as a fellow-workman; and these feelings prevail, there is the end of hope for the labor movement.
Look at it a moment. There are now four million of the negro race about to enter the field of free labor. If we take them upon equal ground with ourselves in the contest for the elevation of labor, they become an ally; but if we reject them-say we will not work in the shop with them-what is the result? The black man's interests and ours are severed. He that might have been our cooperator becomes our enemy. This vast force of four million workers is in the field against us. We refuse their alliance; the enemy sees and seizes his opportunity, and the black man becomes our competitor. He will underwork us to get employment, and we have no choice but to underwork him in return, or at least to work as low as he, or starve. Shall we then be so blind and suicidal as to refuse to work with the black man? Here he is-a power to tell on one side or the other in the contest for the elevation of labor. Shall this power be used on our side, or on the side of our opponents? It is first offered to us. Shall we reject it? We hope there is more intelligence among workingmen than to persist in the indulgence of an old prejudice when that indulgence is the ruin of their cause.
No, brother workingmen, side by side with every son of toil we must win our cause. To elevate a class only is to do nothing. We have to establish a principle-the principle of justice-if we would have a secure foundation for our work. When we fully comprehend and honor this principle, we shall be irresistible, and our rising will be as strong and sure as the rising of the sun, and as beautiful and blessed.-Boston Daily Voice.

THE REBEL VICE-PRESIDENT.
Mr. A. H. Stephens's pardon is strongly pressed by not a few persons of undoubted loyalty, but who seem to be mistaken in this instance. We are told that he could be employed to do much good in Georgia, in bringing about the restoration of order. Perhaps he could, but we ought to be able to restore order ourselves, unaided by the chiefs of disorder. It is only in extreme cases that the perpetrators of a specific crime are added in to do away with that crime's consequences,-but our case is not extreme. It might be very magnanimous to pardon Mr. Stephens, but it seems to us that there would be quite as much of policy as of magnanimity in such a course. Mr. Stephens, in a moral point of view, is even a more guilty man than Mr. Davis, inasmuch as he believed neither in secession nor in the assertions that the North was about to attack the property rights of the South. Mr. Davis did believe in the right of secession, but even he knew that the North had no unconstitutional purpose in view. Only a few days before he became a traitor, Mr. Stephens opposed secession, pointing out the criminality and folly which it involved, and showing that the South had no cause of complaint; and he also said that our government was the best in the world. His speech was so good a Union speech, that the Union party of the North had it printed, and circulated it as a campaign document, at the Presidential election of 1864. After making that speech, which fairly committed him to the federal side, he coolly went over to the rebels, and accepted the second place in their government, which might have become the first place at any moment, through the death of Mr. Davis. Mr. Stephens, after turning rebel, went further than any other Southron in support of slavery declaring it to be the only foundation of civilization, and the corner-stone of the Southern social edifice, the sole edifice of the kind that was properly founded! The only defence that is made of his outrageous conduct is, that he went with his State! A man's father is as close to him as his State can be, but we do not overlook his conduct if he help his father commit murder. And was not Mr. Stephens helping his State at the work of murdering his country, which is the worst crime that man can commit? It is impossible to have patience with those soft-headed persons who are for forgiving all those odious criminals whose garments are dyed in the blood of myriads of Northern men, and who were not even deceived into the adoption of criminal practices. If there are to be no punishments for treason,-if the rebellion is to be endured by those who conquered the rebels,-we shall stand self-condemned before the world, and as having admitted the right of the Southrons to take arms in defence of what they call their "rights." Even the trial of Wirz becomes a farce, for that beastly fellow was only the agent of that government of which Mr. Stephens was so prominent a member; and how can we punish an agent when we allow principals to go free, and even restore them to the full enjoyment of citizenship?-Watchman and Reflector.

AFFAIRS IN VIRGINIA.
The following is an extract from a private letter written by a Union officer stationed in Richmond, to a friend in Boston. The writer enjoys excellent opportunities for knowing the true state of affairs in the Old Dominion:
“It seems as though there were nothing to write about now that battles and rumors have passed away, but really there is much that is interesting in watching how the newspapers and loud-mouthed politicians down here, are trying to persuade President Johnson and the North, that the Southern people feel all right toward the Federal Government, etc., and at the same time turning about in their columns to iterate and reiterate to the ‘loyal’ people,-‘Don't for Heaven's sake elect prominent rebels who can't take the necessary oaths to Congress this time; what we want is merely to get men in there-no matter about ability-and next time we can elect whom we please!' Do you not suppose these editors know the temper of their readers? And if so, why such continued pleadings and warnings, if the people are properly disposed?
The social state is enough to show me their undying hatred to the North. Lately a great ado has been made over invitations to President Johnson to visit Richmond, and yet President Johnson has had two representatives here the past four months-Gen. Terry and Gen. Turner, gentlemen in every sense of the word-who have only received civilities from five families in the whole city, and it is notorious that those families have been ‘cut dead’ by all their former associates for having entertained Union officers.
One can go to the fashionable Episcopal Church here any Sunday, and see half the females in the congregation lift up their heads during the prayer
<c04>
for the President of the United States, and put them down again immediately after. I have not seen this state of things put rightly in any paper yet. It seems to me to be the disposition of these people, since they have failed in their appeal to arms, to carry every question not irrevocably decided by battle-box, and through that reward,-first, those who have fought in the Confederate service; second, the Copperheads in the North who have stood by them in the last four years. As soon as the South is restored to its rights in Congress, you will see an unbroken ‘delegation’ from all these States, and a persistent attempt to punish after their old style every man who has been against them during the war. Witness the elections here, and also those to the Convention in South Carolina.
All military men who are true feel sad to have our returned comrades (like Gen. Slocum) accept nominations from the Copperheads, and hope the people will see through the, dodge to get votes. There is as great need of firmness now as ever in standing by the right.”-Boston Transcript.

COL. ROBERT G. SHAW.
Connecticut sent to the war a regiment of black men. It contained about one half those of the State whose age would have entitled them to the elective franchise, had they the right to exercise it. These men did efficient service for their country. Many of them died for it. The remainder are still in the service, clothed in the uniform of the United States. The white men who stayed at home, the white men of Connecticut who are in the pay of the United States, but not for bearing arms, joined the Copperheads on Monday last, and decided that men who offered their lives for their country should have no voice in its government. The standing slander against Connecticut, time out of mind, has been that her people could cut more hams out of a given piece of wood, and put fewer onions with large tops in a peck measure, than any other people living. She did a meaner thing than these in her vote last Monday.
Boston shows another spirit. It is proposed there to erect an equestrian statue to Col. Robert G. Shaw, on the most conspicuous spot in front of the Massachusetts State-House. Why? Other soldiers have died noble deaths. Others, young and beloved, rich and fair, endowed with all that makes life worth having, have counted all as nothing in comparison with their duty to their country. Col. Shaw's merit was not in this only, but that, when the great experiment was to be tried of putting colored men into the field, of testing their courage and manhood, of permitting them to prove their claim to the rights of citizenship, by doing a citizen's noblest duty, he stepped forward with unwavering faith in the right, senseless to sneers, careless of caste, blind to prejudice, and led these men to the field, not for his country's sake alone, but for the sake of humanity. Massachusetts honors the soldier, but she honors the man more. The act of Col. Shaw gave two hundred thousand troops to the Government. War is a trial of forces. The Rebellion was suppressed, the Union saved, and the Government sustained in its integrity because the North was the stronger. Throw out the two hundred thousand men, and who dares say where we should stand to-day? Had no black man ever gone to battle, who dares affirm that there would have been universal acquiescence in the abolition of slavery? The black man has won the recognition of his manhood, and the nation is ashamed, however parties may vote, to deny to a race the freedom of which it has shown itself worthy. Wagner was the battle-ground, not of regiments, but of centuries and civilizations, and the black man there won his place among the freemen of the age, and wiped out the stain of servitude. Col. Shaw died there, not only as the brave soldier dies, but he laid down his life for the freedom of a race. The commander fell at the head of a people. Thenceforth, the numbers and the strength of the black men were counted in, in the struggle of forces, and the stronger won. But, greater still, the black man won, with his blood, the recognition of his manhood, and the question of his slavery was settled then and there forever.
To the man who died, not for a day but for all time, Boston will erect a statue in enduring bronze, to last as long as Massachusetts can remember her history.-her history.-N. Y. Tribune.

NEGRO ZEAL TO LEARN.
The Charlottesville (Va.) Chronicle thus graphically depicts the eagerness with which the negroes of that place embrace the opportunity for learning to read:-
“Charlottesville is fairly entitled to be called the literary centre of the South. There is, first, the University of Virginia, with its learned professors on all sorts of subjects. Then we have two large female seminaries, where young ladies learn thirty or forty things ending in-ology. Then we have some half-dozen first-class academies for boys. Then several select schools. Then a number of schools for the English branches. And then the whole colored population, of all sexes and ages, is repeating from morning to night, a-b-ab; e-b, eb; i-b-ib; c-a-t-cat; d-o-g-dog; c-u-p, cup; etc.-through all the varieties of the first lessons in orthography. There are some four or five colored schools, and little negro chaps darken every door, with primers in their hands. If we pass a blacksmith's shop, we hear a-b-ab; if we peep into a shoemaker's shop, it is a-b-ab; if we pass by a negro cabin in the suburbs of the town, we hear the sound, a-b-ab; if the cook goes out to suckle her infant, it is a-b-ab; the dining-room servant washes up his dishes and plates, crying a-b-ab; the hostler curries his horse, repeating a-b-ab; Jerry blacks your boots, saying, with rapid strokes, a-b-ab. a-b-ab; the whole air is resonant with a-b-ab. The little yellow boy who sleeps in our chamber awoke us the other night, muttering in his dreams a-b-ab. If you send a little negro boy on an errand, he is spelling everything he meets in one syllable. The little white boys look at them wonderingly, and try to ‘cork ’ them. In a month or so, we expect to issue an evening edition of the Chronicle in monosyllables, to increase our circulation-perhaps a pictorial, with tubs and spades, and ants and cows, and owls and bats, like the primers."

THE FREE LABOR MOVEMENT.
A correspondent of the Boston Daily Advertiser, writing from Charleston, S. C., devotes some space to a consideration of the free labor movement in the South. We copy the following:
“As to the free labor problem in this part of the country, the difficulty rests in a far higher degree with the whites than with the blacks. As long as the military authority of the Government rules here, everything will go comparatively well. Under present circumstances, no other tribunal could decide differences between whites and blacks to my own satisfaction, and I doubt whether the decisions of any other tribunal would by both parties be acquiesced in. The whites have a vague apprehension of negro insurrections, which sometimes gives rise to ridiculous local panics, and they look to our forces for protection, while the blacks have full confidence in our officers and soldiers as their natural friends. Thus the military power of the United States gives a feeling of security to both. 
“But what will happen if our troops be once withdrawn? and they cannot stay here and govern the State eternally. What would happen if the troops were withdrawn to-day it is not difficult to say, and everybody here feels it; a number of little collisions which, in a short time, might ripen into a great one. The reason is not that anybody desires it-neither the whites nor the blacks, and least of all the true friends of the blacks; for it is impossible that such a collision, while it would bring with it great calamities to the whites, should not result in greater and more permanent disasters to the colored race. But the distrust between the whites and blacks is so great, and the ill-will with which the free negro is looked upon by the whites so apparent, that it requires the presence of the troops to prevent explosion.
“At present, it is well for the people to understand that the free labor experiment in this part of the country is in so precarious a condition; s to call for continuous attention and protective care on the part of the government. Time will do away with many of the more threatening difficulties, provided it be well, employed. The element The elements of a great and lasting success are there; they will bear good fruit, unless the government withdraw its fostering and protecting, care before they are ripened into independent vitality,”
<c05>
THE ANDERSONVILLE HORRORS. 
The Jersey Prison Ship, Sugar House Prison, and the Calcutta Black Hole all together do not combine in their record a tithe of the horrors that will make Andersonville a by-word forever on the lips of all men who abhor inhumanity.  Wherever the real responsibility of the great crime which is synonymous with infamy may rest, the history of the rebellion will never cease to be illustrated by the hellish practices and heroic sufferings which alternately make up the diary of its hateful existence. Angels must have looked down upon those devoted Union prisoners only to weep over their groans, their prayers, their frenzy, and their lingering fate. One could not have believed, before the occurrence of the war, that a nameless spectacle like this would have presented itself in the heart of what the people of this nation have always styled their civilization. It is too shocking for contemplation. The nervous system itself revolts and relaxes at the fearful details.
Nothing that the Government can do in the way of administering punishment for a crime so vast and so unparalleled in the history of crimes will heal those wounds which have been left in numberless circles by its commission, or make atonement for the perpetual disgrace which will attach to the cause for whose professed aid it was tolerated. It remains, and ever will remain, a moral blot, blacker than the rest, on the side of a rebellion which its authors cannot any longer have the presumption to vindicate in the face of practices so utterly atrocious and unpardonable. It may be that infinite forgiveness of Heaven can find in its reach to overlook it at last, but it is sure never to pass out of the memory nor to lack for the execration of the human race. The cause in whose name such a crime was held, deserved a thousand times to fall on that account alone; it could not but be accursed of God from the beginning. The contemplation of what was thus done in their midst should tend to humiliate and soften the hearts of those once rebellious, and to start the growth of kindness and brotherly feeling, if only from the promptings of shame.

POLITICAL RIGHTS OF WOMEN.
The woman's rights movement, which has subsided in its activity in this country, during the conflict with rebellion and slavery, has, in the meanwhile, borne substantial fruits in the old world, and the greatest philosopher of the age, John Stuart Mill, has come forward as the champion of the political emancipation of the English women, and proposes, in any future reform, to endow women with the right of voting. Ladies may now be lawfully appointed members of boards of guardians, by a majority of votes; and, if disfranchisement is done away with in one direction, it will be difficult to maintain it in others. We have already referred to the activity of ladies in England during the late general election, when those most conspicuous for their public participation in politics were Lady Jenkinson and Mrs. Frederick Peel. In France, women have been recently elected as members of the municipal council of one of the country towns; and we should not wonder if all French women should become anxious for the exercise of political rights, since Eugenie has been appointed regent, and is known to exert a considerable influence on public affairs. The agitation, however, is not confined to political rights; and women, in the same proportion that they, are employed in useful occupations, awaken to a sense of their disadvantages in competition with masculine labor. The young ladies employed in the stores of Paris have recently petitioned the government for a release from work on Sundays. In this country, the employment of female clerks in the Treasury Department is said to fall short of the expectations formed from the experiment; which, however, should not be used as an argument to prove any general incapacity of women for such occupations, since the work in the department is, from its lifeless monotony, probably less adapted to female genius than that in more stirring spheres of activity.-Chicago Republican.

LOOKING FOR THE WIND. 
An old Whaleman sends the Evening Post the following communication upon its exposure of the inconsistencies of the different Democratic platforms. He writes:
“Your showing up of the contradictory, blundering and self-defeating Democratic platforms remind me, as an old Whaleman, of the very similar conduct I have noticed in a certain species of whale, the 'humpback.'
This blundering animal frequents the bays of Madagascar, and our sperm Whalemen go there in dull seasons to take them, though they make but poor oil, and their bone is worthless. It is the habit of these whales to drift into the bays during the night, feed near the shores during the calm which follows the subsidence of the land-breeze, and make their way out to sea as soon as the sea-breeze sets in strongly. Instinct tells them that they are safest when they are going head to the wind.
Now, shrewd whalemen take advantage of this. They anchor their ships near the bottom of a deep bay, and push out their boats at early daylight, in the hope to strike a whale before the sea-breeze sets in. The action of a struck whale, under the circumstances I have described, is precisely and comically like that of the Democratic or copperhead leaders now. The moment he feels the iron, he sets off vigorously in some direction. For a few minutes he makes the water fly, and goes off head out. Suddenly the line slackens, the whale has stopped; before you know it, he turns up astern of the boat, and rushes back to where he started from. But this does not last more than a minute; he changes his mind again; with head out and puffing like a Mississippi steamboat, he goes off first to the right, then to the left, then down to the bottom, then ahead for a little while, and finally sweeps round anxiously in a circle.
The first time I saw this singular conduct, I did not know what to make of it. ‘What sort of a cursed fool is this whale?’ said I to the mate; ‘he don't seem to know enough to keep straight ahead.’ ‘Don't you understand?’ was the reply, ‘the idiot's looking for the wind; he's trying to snuff the sea-breeze: he'd like to get off safe, but he don't know bow from starn, and while he's looking round, you see, I put my lance in him easy like this’-and the Nantucket man with great contempt delivered the death-blow, and set his whale to spouting blood.
Now the Democratic leaders are like these foolish humpbacks: they are looking for the wind; they are casting about in every direction to get a snuff of the popular breeze; they back and fill, go ahead, sideways, and in a circle, head out and mouth open, trying to find out which way the wind of public opinion is going to set. They make a very ridiculous and contemptible spectacle indeed; and their fate will be like that of the unlucky humpback; they will presently ‘spout blood and turn fin up.’
Yours, AN OLD WHALEMAN.”
The Nasby papers continue to be unique. They are entirely original in their way, and are equal to the best things of Major Jack Downing, Artemas Ward, or Josh Billings. His last letter to the Cincinnati Commercial, he introduces as follows:-
“Ginral Boanerges Pogram, uv Mississippy, who demonstrated his devoshun to the grate prinsiples of constitooshnal liberty by serving the confedrasy as a comissary, wrote me to meet him in Washington. He hed jest reseeved his pardon, and the fust yoose he made of his privilege was to cum to Washinton to meet me for consultashen on the hopes and prospex uv the Dimocrisy.
“Ginral Pogram is a fine specimen uv the ginooine shivelrus sutherner. Six feet 2 inches in hite, he kin chaw more terbacker, spit with greater accooracy, and walk upright under a hevyer lode uv strate whisky, than any man I ever met. A unsofistikatid child uv nacher, he scorns the polish and sham uv what is called civilization. Never shel I forgit the litenin-glanse of contempt he dartid at me, when I askt him to qualify his whisky with a little water.
“Ginral Pogram opened by lamentin the untimely decease of so many suthern voters in the late diabolikle war Linkin and his helyuns made upon 'em.
“I replied to-wanst that that deficit cood be easily made up. ‘I hev,’ says I,‘bin a considerin this matter. At a triflin expenditoor uv money, the tide uv emigrashun from Europe kin be turned southward, and the places uv yoor slawtered heroes be filled with the Irishman, the German, the’-
“Liar! theef! murdrer! nigger-steeler!’ show-tid the Ginral, seezin me by the throte, and brandishin his cane over me.
<c06>
“Falin on my knees (formin a tablow, the ‘Yoonyun ez it wuz’) I garspt:
“‘Why this violence?’
“‘O, nuthin,’ replied the Ginra, relaxin his holt;
‘I shel be electid to Congris, and ez I shel hev to mix with yoo Yankees, I wuz a practisin the old tacktix, just to git my hand in agin. Wuz yoo afeerd? Bless yoor sole, we woodent kill a Northern Dimekrat for no money-we need ’em.’ ”

The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age?
MORRILL S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St, Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are “done to a turn.”
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his ow language,
“CHALLENGES THE WORLD 
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler,” which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeable of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to reams requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent “AErovapor Stove” in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the AErovaporCooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly, 
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your “single burners,” and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen,. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the “double burner,” but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio. T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & CO.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my “Petroleum Stove.” I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz.: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies. 
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865. 
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.

GREAT CHANCE FOR AGENTS.
WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT.
COMPLETE History of the War, in one large volume, splendidly illustrated, with over 125 fine portraits of Generals and Battle scenes. The most candid, lucid, complete, authentic and reliable history published. It contains reading matter equal to three large octavo volumes. Send for circulars, and see our terms. Address
“JONES, BROS & CO., Philadelphia., Pa.”
Sept. 29.

DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagleswood School, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover. 
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.

THE RADlCAL:
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
