THE LIBERATOR.
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID.) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three met at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXXV. NO. 16.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1865.
WHOLE NO. 1785.
<c01>
Selections.
RECONSTRUCTION.
SPEECH OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN,.
In Washington City, on Tuesday Evening, April 11, 1865.
We meet this evening, not in sorrow, but in gladness of heart. The evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond, and the surrender of the principal insurgent army, give hopes of a righteous and speedy peace, whose joyous expression cannot be restrained. In the midst of this, however, He from whom all blessings flow must not be forgotten. A call for a National Thanksgiving is being prepared, and will be duly promulgated. Nor must those whose harder part gives us the cause of rejoicing be overlooked. Their honors must not be parceled out with others. I, myself, was near the front and had the high pleasure of transmitting much of the good news to you. But no part of the honor for plan or execution is mine. To Gen., Grant, his skillful officers and brave men, all belong. The gallant navy stood ready, but was not in reach to take active part. By these recent successes, the re-inauguration of the national authority-reconstruction, which has had a large share of thought from the first-is pressed much more closely upon our attention. It is traught with great difficulty. Unlike a case of war between independent nations, there is no authorized organ for us to treat with. No one man has authority to give up the rebellion for any other man. We simply must begin with and mould from disorganized and discordant elements. Nor is it a small additional embarrassment that we, the loyal people, differ among ourselves as to the mode, manner and measure of reconstruction. As a general rule, I abstain from reading the reports of attacks upon myself, wishing not to be provoked by that to which cannot properly offer an answer. In spite of this precaution, however, it comes to my knowledge that I am much censured for some supposed agency in setting up and seeking to sustain the new State government of Louisiana. In this I have done just so much and no more than the public knows. In the annual message of December, 1863, and the accompanying proclamation, I presented a plan of reconstruction, as the phrase goes, which I promised, if adopted by any State, would be acceptable to and sustained by the Executive government of the nation. I distinctly stated that this was not the only plan which might possibly be acceptable; and I also distinctly protested that the Executive claimed no right to say who or whether members should be admitted to seats in Congress from such States.. This plan was in advance submitted to the then Cabinet, and approved by every member of it. One of them suggested that I should then, and in that connection, apply the Emancipation proclamation to the theretofore excepted parts of Virginia and Louisiana, that I should drop the suggestion about apprenticeship for freed people, and that I should omit the protest against my own power in regard to the admission of members of Congress. But even he approved every part and parcel of the plan which has since been employed or touched by the action of Louisiana. The new Constitution of Louisiana, declaring emancipation for the whole State, practically applies the proclamation to the part previously excepted. It does not adopt apprenticeship for freed people, and is silent, as it could not well be otherwise, about the admission of members to Congress So that, as it applied to Louisiana, every member of the Cabinet fully approved the plan. The message went to Congress, and I received many commendations of the plan, written and verbal, and not a single objection to it from any professed emancipationist came to my knowledge until after the news reached Washington that the people of Louisiana had begun to move in accordance with it. From about July, 1862, I had corresponded with different persons supposed to be interested in seeking a reconstruction of a State government for Louisiana. When the message of 1863, with the plan before mentioned, reached New Orleans, Gen. Banks wrote me that he was confident that the people, with his military cooperation, would reconstruct substantially on that plan. I wrote to him and some of them to try it. They tried it, and the result is known. Such has been my only agency in getting up the Louisiana government. As to sustaining it, my promise is out, as before stated; but as bad promises are better broken than kept, I shall treat this as a bad promise, and break it whenever I shall be convinced that keeping it is adverse to the public interest; but I have not yet been so convinced. I have been shown a letter on this subject, (supposed to be an able one), in which the writer expresses regret that my mind has not seemed to be definitely fixed on the question whether the seceded States, so called, are in the Union or out of it. It would perhaps add astonishment to his regret were he to learn that since I have found professed Union men endeavoring to answer that question, I have purposely forborne any public expression upon it. As appears to me, that question has not been, nor. yet is, a practically material one, and that any discussion of it, while it thus remains practically immaterial, could have no other effect than the mischievous one of dividing our friends. As yet, whatever it may become, that question is bad as the basis of a controversy, and good for nothing at all a merely pernicious abstraction. We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper practical relation with the Union, and that the sole object of the government, civil and military, in regard to those States, is to again get them into that proper practical relation. I believe that it is not only possible, but, in fact, easier, to do this without deciding or even considering whether those States have ever been out of the Union, than with it. Finding themselves safely at home, it would be utterly immaterial whether they had been abroad. Let us all join in doing the acts necessary to restore the proper practical relations between these States and the Union, and each forever after innocently indulge his own opinion, whether in doing the acts be brought the States from without into the Union, or only gave them proper assistance, they never having been out of it. The amount of constituency, so to speak, on which the Louisiana government rests, would be more satisfactory to all if it contained 50,000 or 30,000, or even 20,000, instead of 12,000, as it does. It is also unsatisfactory to some that the elective franchise is not given to the colored man. I would myself prefer that it were now conferred on the very intelligent and on those who serve our cause as soldiers. Still the question is not whether the Louisiana government, as it stands, is quite all that is desirable. The question is, will it be wiser to take it as it is, and keep it, improve it, or to reject and disperse it?
Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State government? Some 12,000 voters in the heretofore slave State of Louisiana have sworn allegiance to the Union, assumed to be the rightful political power of the State held elec-
<c02>
tions, organized a State government, adopted a Free, State Constitution, giving the benefit of the public schools equally to black and white, and empowering the Legislature to confer the elective franchise upon the colored man.
This Legislature has already voted to ratify the Constitutional Amendment recently passed by Congress abolishing slavery throughout the nation. These twelve thousand persons are thus fully committed to the Union, and to perpetuate freedom in the State, committed to the very things, and nearly all things the nation wants, and they ask the nation’s recognition and its assistance to make good this committal.
Now, if we reject and spurn them, we do our utmost to disorganize and disperse them. We, in fact, say to the white man. You are worthless; or worse; we will neither help you nor be helped by you. To the blacks we say, This cup of liberty, which these, your old masters, held to your lips, we will dash from you, and leave you to the chances of gathering the spilled and scattered contents in some vague and undefined when, where and how.
If this course, discouraging and paralyzing both white and black, has any tendency to bring Louisiana into proper practical relations with the Union, I have so far been unable to perceive it. If, on the contrary, we sustain and recognize the new government of Louisiana, the converse of all this is made true. We encourage the hearts and nerve the arms of 12,000 to adhere to their work and argue for it, and feed it, and proselyte for it, and grow it, and ripen it to a complete success.
The colored man, too, in seeing all united for him, is inspired with vigilance, and energy, and daring to the same end. Grant that he desires the elective franchise, will he not attain it sooner by saving the already advanced steps toward it than by running backward over them? Concede that the new government of Louisiana is only to what it should be, as the egg is to the fowl, we shall sooner have the fowl by hatching the egg than by smashing it. (Laughter.)
Again, if we reject Louisiana, we also reject one vote in favor of the proposed amendment to the National Constitution. To meet this proposition, it has been argued that no more than three-fourths of those States which have not attempted secession are necessary to validly ratify the amendment. I do not commit myself against this further than to say that such a ratification would be questionable and sure to be persistently questioned, while a ratification by three-fourths of all the States would be unquestioned and unquestionable.
I repeat the question, can Louisiana be brought into practical relations with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State government? What has been said of Louisiana will apply to other States. And yet so great peculiarities pertain to each State, and such important and sudden changes occur in the same State, and withal so new and unprecedented is the whole case, that no exclusive and inflexible plan can safely be prescribed as to details and collaterals. Such exclusive and inflexible plan would surely become a new entanglement.
Important principles may and must be inflexible. In the present situation, as the phrase goes, it may be my duty to make some new announcement to the people of the South. I am considering, and shall not fail to act when satisfied that action will be proper.

THE HAND OF PROVIDENCE IN THE WAR.
“Had it not been for the resolution taken by those who directed the affairs of the rebel States, to plant corn instead of cotton, to sow large tracts with wheat, and to rear large stock of cattle for the subsistence of their armies, Sherman could never have made his triumphant march through Georgia and South Carolina.” This was a remark made the other day by an officer who had accompanied Gen. Sherman in his “agreeable journey” through Georgia, and afterwards traversed with him and his victorious host the State of South Carolina.
This is one of those circumstances which so remarkably characterize the present civil war, all conspiring to the great end of crashing the rebellion and slavery together. The planters of the rebel States knew not for whom they planted their fields and sowed them with grain, nor for whom they fattened their beeves and stocked their poultry yards. The army of Sherman marched through their region and found abundant granaries and numerous herds awaiting their arrival, and then it was seen for whom this ample provision had been made. Had the usual quantity of cotton been planted, the journey through that country would by no means have been found so agreeable. In fact, it is not too much to say that, not being able to subsist on the resources of the country, this march, so important to the success of our arms, could not have been made. It was because the leading conspirators so earnestly exhorted their followers to confine their tillage to grains and roots, and their husbandry to the rearing of domestic animals, that Savannah has already fallen into our hands, that we have taken possession of Charleston, that Wilmington is ours, that we have occupied most of the principal towns of North Carolina, and that Richmond, the capital of the rebellion, has so soon fallen. A wise Providence put it in the hearts of the slaveholders to make unwittingly this contribution to our victories.
Our readers will remember that at an earlier period of this war, it was generally said that the possession of slaves gave the conspirators against the Union a great advantage in a military point of view. It created a military class—the masters, accustomed to the use of arms, as a daily amusement, and devoted solely to the art of war; while another class, the bondmen and bondwomen, docile, quiet and obedient, tilled the fields and supplied the army with the means of subsistence. Against the military class of the South we had only to oppose our artizans, our farmers, our recruits drawn from various sedentary pursuits, men who, whatever might be the spirit and resolution with which they came to the rescue of their country, were of unwarlike habits, and multitudes of whom would find it necessary to return to their homes as soon as their term of service should be ended.
Such was a just representation of the state of things at that time, but in this very organization of Southern society, on which the slaveholders plumed themselves so proudly, lurked a disadvantage and a danger to the rebel cause which, became apparent soon after the President issued the proclamation of freedom to the slaves in the revolted States. The masters then found that they had been rearing a class of scouts and guides for the loyal army—a class who sheltered and helped on their way the fugitive from rebel persecution and the escaped Union soldiers-a class from whom the Union army, when the federal government had grown a little wiser, recruited its soldiers—a class who furnished the federal army with the heroes of some of its most fiercely contested fields. This class has shared in some of the most glorious triumphs of the war; it has entered one captured city after another at conquerors,
<c03>
and but the other day was the first to take military occupation of Richmond.
It was most important that the war should be continued until this inherent weakness of the social system founded on slavery should be fully demonstrated. It was most important that the world should see that in such a state of society, the master and the slave were necessarily enemies, and that in case of an invasion from without which promised the slave his freedom, he would be sure to take part against the master. The present war has been carried on long enough to make the truth clear to all the world and to all time, that a government whose essential principle is slavery, rests upon a most slippery and insecure foundation, and is in perpetual danger of being overthrown by assaults from without.
Yet this truth could not have been made so manifest but for the peculiar temper of the Southern slaveholders, naturally generated by their institution. Accustomed to make their will the law, as well in politics as on the plantation, they would accept no compromise, would listen to no terms of reconciliation, would consent to a cessation of hostilities on no other condition than the recognition of their new government as an independent power, entitled to a share in the public property and the unsettled territories. The domineering spirit of the South, more than any strength of virtuous determination in the North, saved as from the disgrace of a new compact which would have infused new vitality into the system of slavery. It drew on, it precipitated the downfall of slavery and the decimation, impoverishment and dispersion of the slave-holding class, which may already be said to have fearfully perished by the recoil of its own devices.
We are among those who reverently see the hand of Providence in all these events.-N. Y. Evening Post.

TORY CHARGIN.
Throughout the arduous struggle now closing of our country for a place and name among the nations, the organs and oracles of European monarchists issued among us have been the most insidious and untiring partisans of the Slaveholders’ Rebellion. French, English, Scotch, or whatever else, they have done their worst to set the National cause before their readers in an odious light, and to give stealthy aid and comfort to the embattled hosts of Secession. That British Toryism should be foremost in this work was natural and expected. In all British America, not one journal of anti-Liberal proclivities has sought to disguise its ardent hopes that our National downfall was imminent and inevitable; and the Tory organ in this city, though more cautious, has been equally eager to see Saratoga, Monmouth, Yorktown and New-Orleans avenged or counterbalanced by the triumphant hoisting of the Stars and Bars over the flag of the Union. Now that this hope is blasted, it is reduced to such misrepresentations as the following:
“In Charleston harbor, by way of making the down-stricken South drain to the dregs the bitter cup of humiliation, there is to be a grand, ceremony at Fort Sumter on Friday next, the anniversary of the firing of the first shot. But this is in the genius of the people. They cannot certainly be accused of bloodthirstiness; yet are their tender mercies cruel. Mr. Ward Beecher, one of the fanatics who brought on the insurrection, is to preach over the ruins a homily on good-will to all men. At this day, Irishmen are compelled to cleanse the streets of that forlorn city, while lazy negroes are fed upon Government rations, and are pampered in their indisposition to work. Poor, miserable creatures, chanting their ’bress de Lord!’ amid the applause of imported by-standers, how long do they suppose that their shrewd new masters will give them ’unrequited’ food? Already, the philosophic Tribune of this city has enunciated, for the benefit of its black brethren, the stern doctrine ’Root hog, or die!’ The white men of the South have reaped a fearful harvest from the whirlwind they sowed; but it is as nothing compared to the long agonies that must overtake in the future the victims of a rash though not mistaken philanthropy! The same cool hearts and calculating heads that contemplate the extermination of a race akin to their own, will have small pity for idlers of another brood, so soon as their own interests are found to be at variance with the sentimentality which has served their purpose.”
The readers of the Tribune do not need to be told that we have always preached to our Free Blacks the gospel of Self-reliance—preached it frankly and thoroughly as we do to-day. We denounce as a slander on Human Nature the assumption that our black countrymen “can’t take care of themselves,” whether it be uttered by their late oppressors or by well-meaning but weak-minded sympathizers. Individuals among them, as among all other races, are indolent, prodigal, rascally or debauched, and so will have to be subsisted in poor-houses or prisons; but the mass of our blacks, once free, will take as good care of themselves as will our uneducated immigrants. There are localities like this city, wherein they are crowded out of nearly all but menial avocations; these we advise them to leave and avoid, devoting themselves, so far as practicable, to the cultivation of the soil, settling in clusters or neighborhoods, so as to give their children better opportunities for education, and becoming owners of the soil at the earliest possible day. We are sure this is far. better than allowing themselves to be huddled together in “ Freedmen’s Villages,” and subjected to any form of guardianship, no matter how well intended. We say emphatically to every freedman, “Go to work for the nearest person who will pay you fair wages, and keep out of the hands” of ‘Boards’ and ‘Superintendents.’. so far as possible. We presume they all mean well; but you will find no better friend than yourself; and we very much doubt that any one can dispose of your labor to better advantage (for you) than yourself. Make your own bargains; for, even though the first should be had, you will learn thereby how to make better. And remember that every one of you who can’t get on without guidance or alms affords the strongest possible argument for the benificence of slavery.”
Now, whoever saw a negro who imagined that, being freed, he would so longer have to work for a living? We challenge the production of an instance of such fatuity. If one can be found, we propose and urge the policy that will clear his head of the pestilent folly forthwith.
Most certainly, we do not believe that Gens. Gill-more or Saxton have ever issued rations to one idle negro while hiring Irishmen to clean the streets of Charleston; and we are sure that the emancipated blacks will endure “the long agonies” of working for themselves instead of their late masters with exemplary fortitude. George III. and his courtiers doubtless felt a sympathy for the “ long agonies” of the deluded colonists who insisted on being independent quite equal to that of The Albion for the freed-men. Our fathers managed to exist after King George had left them to the devices and desires of their own hearts; and we doubt not the freedmen will likewise survive the “ long agonies” of their bereavement of the loving guardianship of Legree, Jeff. Davis, Lee, Toombs & Co.—Tribune.
<c04>
NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
When a question has been settled, it is wonderful how clear it becomes. We find it hard to comprehend what it was that made all the difficulty. But in four-fifths of the cases, the real trouble is in the disposition of the parties concerned they don’t want any settlement of the question, or they are not in the right frame of mind to take it up. We have seen this illustrated during the whole progress of the negro question since the war began. There was a grand hitch in the first place, arresting the whole public mind as before an impenetrable wall, until Gen. Butler proffered his “contraband” key, and let us all into the next stage of the question. And so we have been going on, sometimes by the aid of the sword, at others by the statute-book, and at others by the spontaneous impulses of the masses. But now it is plain enough that the great impending question in many quarters is to be that which relates to the suffrage of the colored man.
Here in Massachusetts, and in most of New England, the question was decided long ago, and consequently it looks so easy that we hardly know what to make of the rising excitement over it elsewhere. We simply take no account of the color of a man’s face in determining his right to vote, but we do look somewhat to the condition of his mind, for we conceive that that has a direct relation to his exercise of the great responsibilities of the franchise; and so we require that the voter shall be able to read the State Constitution in the English language. It is true, that does not necessarily secure us in every case a wise and patriotic voter, and it may occasionally exclude such an one. But as a general rule-and it is general rules alone that must govern in all political affairs-it does supply a good and just test of men’s fitness to vote, as our experience has satisfactorily demonstrated. But whatever may be the fact as to this, we doubt if one sensible man can anywhere be found to look another in the face and say that complexion is a sound standard for giving or withholding the right of suffrage.
No, the candid opponents of negro suffrage will rest their objections on the present unfitness of the race to be admitted to that responsible right and duty. They will advert to their ignorance, to the state of dependence in which most of them have hitherto passed their lives, and to whatever other defects the average American voter is free from. But even these men must admit that where a colored man is free from these defects to the same degree as any present voter, foreign born or native, he ought to have the same political rights. To say otherwise is to bring out that colorphobia from its hiding-place which every sensible man at least who is willing to have colored men fighting for him in the field, ought to be ashamed of. The true way, then, is to consider honestly what safeguards ought to be thrown around the ballot-box, in order to insure the proper working of our institutions, and then to apply those safeguards impartially, as to white and black, natives and immigrants. If the accomplishment of reading is not deemed a wise rule, let any other be adopted, provided that it applies to all alike. But it is one strong recommendation of that, that if any one is very desirous of surmounting it, in order to exercise the most honorable right of a freeman, he can be sure to do it in a few months. We have not at this time taken into account the great public considerations which attach to the right settlement of this question, but have chosen rather to glance at its very simplest elements, because it is really a simple question, and will one day be universally acknowledged as such. As, moreover, it has got to be settled, all parties ought to meet it as good-naturedly as possible.-Boston Journal.

FREE LABOR IN LOUISIANA.
Considerable has been said in the papers in relation to the working of the free labor system in Louisiana. Perhaps we cannot do a better service than directing attention to this subject as shown in the report of Thomas W. Conway, Superintendent of the Bureau of Free Labor Department of the Gulf, for the year ending February 1, 1865. That report states that the number of freedmen, (orphans, infirm persons, &c.,) supported by the government during the year was 1416, and toe cost $113,426. The number of freedmen on the plantations who were managed by the Bureau was 50,000, and the number of plantations under cultivation by military orders, 1500. On twelve plantations, it has been found necessary to seize property for the purpose of securing the payment of the freedmen working them. It having been an exceedingly unprosperous year, the planters have found it very difficult to pay their laborers.
The disaster of the past season by the failure of the crops has been so great as to almost ruin nearly every planter in the department. Another such year will hardly leave any of the old planters on their feet. Their estates are so heavily mortgaged, that if the crops again fail as last year, they cannot save themselves, and the old planting aristocracy will disappear. Even with fair crops, it will be impossible to prevent a very early change in the ownership of the plantations, and they are even now preparing to give way to new capital and new proprietorship the victims of ruin brought upon them by the rebellion.
In regard to the treatment of the freedmen, the report says the old planters have, as a general rule, paid them more promptly, more justly, and apparently with more willingness than have the new lessees from other parts of the country. Some Northern men of, wealth, however, who have settled in the country, have done better for the freedmen than any others, contributing cheerfully to their educational, religious and social welfare. Most Northern men who undertook to work plantations sought to grind a fortune out of the freedmen in one year and then quit. Of the general work for the freedmen performed by the Bureau, Mr. Conway says:
“We have given up children out of slavery to their parents; we have secured payments of wages of servants, in the city and elsewhere; we have secured pay of hands on steamship and boats; we have delivered persecuted people out of the jails; we have sent the sick to hospitals; we have redressed grievances of every description; we have given protection to many who, at one time, could not get protection in the courts, because it was claimed that they were slaves; and in the great variety of duties which we have been called upon to exercise toward an oppressed population of about ninety thousand souls, I have the satisfaction of saying that I have been sustained, in every work, by the Major General Commanding, and not crippled in my efforts by any of the authorities, including the Governor of the State, who has done valuable service in shaping the conduct of the courts in regard to the people; and Brigadier-General Sherman, the Commander of the defences of New Orleans, who has rendered telling assistance whenever I have asked it of him.”
 Considering the novelty of the circumstances attending this attempt to organize the labor of the freedmen, and the obstacles in the way, Mr. Conway says be considers the experiment successful in its time and in the objects contemplated by it.”
<c05>
THE LAST FLASHES OF HATRED.
Mr. Sumner, when he denounced in the Senate the “barbarism of slavery,” was supposed by many to have given utterance rather to his own exaggerated prejudices than to a just appreciation of a great social wrong. But the progress of the war most have convinced the most credulous of that day that he was entirely right in regard to the essential malignity of this outrage upon human nature and human society. Thomas Jefferson, indeed, long before Mr. Sumner, and with better opportunities of observation, had characterized the effects of so unnatural a state as brutalizing to both master and slave. “ The whole commerce between them,” he said, “is a perpetual union of the most boisterous passions of the most unremitting despotism upon the one part, and of degrading submission on the other.”
Of the influences of the crime upon the character of masters, we had many sad proofs in the violence and ruffianism which forced their way into Congress; but not until we learned how the dead bodies of our killed at Bull Run had been defiled; until the indescribable cruelties and torments inflicted upon our poor prisoners in a hundred rebel prisons were told us not until all these experiences could we conceive of the magnitude and atrocity of this wickedness.
Up to the last moments of their tottering power, the rebels have not ceased to display the same infernal spirit of inhumanity and hate. A weekly journal, the Albion, which has never been inclined to use hard words towards the South, speaking of the evacuation of Richmond, says: “ With the same malignant and disgraceful recklessness toward the fate of those whom they were leaving behind which was manifested at Charleston and elsewhere, the retiring troops set fire to the public buildings, and caused the destruction of one-third of the city.” Very true; it was both malignant and reckless. At Charleston, at Colombia, at Wilmington, at Petersburg, at Richmond, the men of wealth, the leaders, the officials-all who had means to get away, ran away but they left the poor who could not get away behind them, to be dealt with by the Yankees, whom they had described as fiends in human shape, or to be burned to death amid the blazing buildings, or to starve for the want of the food which they tried to destroy.
That is what they care for the people. Saving themselves by a dishonorable and precipitate flight, they abandoned their blacks and-the poor whites to the horrors of conflagration, pillage, insult and famine. Nothing recorded in history is baser, crueller, more cowardly, than this desertion of the poor by the rich, of the weak by the powerful, followed by such heartless attempts to bury them under mere smoldering ruins. It is the more infamous because there could be no motive in it but hatred of the victor. When the Russians burnt their city of Moscow, they knew that the sacrifice would defeat their enemy. They knew that the French would be compelled to an immediate and disastrous, if not an overwhelming retreat. But no such advantage was to be gained by burning the towns our forces have captured. We might be hindered in the seizure of a little property, but our marches could not be stopped nor our campaigns arrested. Only their own poor could be despoiled of the factories in which they might have labored, of the magazines and storehouses of supply, of all the means of future subsistence.”—N. Y. Evening Post.

A TRIBUTE TO FRED. DOUGLASS.
The following speech was made by Prof. Charles D. Cleveland, of Philadelphia, in introducing Frederick Douglass to an audience in that city. It is at once appropriate, eloquent and truthful:
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I have been requested by the ladies most deeply interested in the success of this lecture to introduce to you the speaker of the evening. The word “introduce,” in the ordinary meaning, implies that the party “introduced“ is unknown to the other. In this sense for me to introduce to you the orator of the evening, known all the world over as the eloquent champion of human rights-the rights of man as man, whether an Indian, an African, or a Caucasian sun shone upon his birth—would be, in the language of Shakspeare, as “ wasteful and ridiculous excess” as “to gild refined gold.” But in the sense in which it is generally understood—to smooth the way a little for the speaker of the evening-I am most happy on this occasion to do so, though I think he has pretty generally shown to the world that he can smooth his own way. Especially am I happy to perform this office this evening, as your orator is of that race that has so long been held in bondage in our land; but now, thanks be to God! nearly, and soon doubtless to be universally, emancipated. I would rather that this had been effected by the power of Christian principle; but if, in the providence of God, it has been done by powder and ball, I accept it; for, as the apostle said he rejoiced in whatever way Christ was preached, even though “of contention,” so in the present effects of liberty, “I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice,” even though gained by the sword.
But not only is your orator of that race that has been enslaved, but he can proudly say, himself I, too, was a slave. I say proudly, for he has shown what man can do under the most untoward circumstances, when he has the chance to do, the free liberty to make the most of the talents God has given him. And here let me make a prediction, and if there be a reporter here hope he will mark it, that in less than twenty years, American literature will be indebted for some of its best productions to those who have been slaves, just as the noble post Whittier, and the gifted Mrs. Stowe, have been inspired by the sufferings of the slave. Perhaps you are not all aware how much of the finest productions of classic times we owe to those who were once slaves. Who is that Grecian philosopher most known, most read, most often quoted and translated into most languages? It was Æsop, the great fabulist. But Æsop was a slave. And who is the chief Roman fabulist, and the translator of Æsop? It was Phædrus.. But Phædrus was a slave; and his fine lines to Æsop deserve to be remembered:
A statue of great cost and fame
Th’ Athenians raised to Æsop’s name,
That they might show to all mankind
The path to glory’s unconfined;
That honor’s due to sterling worth,
And not confined to rank or birth.
And who was the prince of the Greek stoic Stoic philosophers? It was Epictetus; but Epictetus was a slave; and no finer book for the daily conduct of life have the ancients left us than his Enchiridion or Manual; and I do not wonder that the early Christian fathers valued it next to the Scriptures themselves.
And who are, I will not say the two best, the only two Roman comic writers whose comedies have come down to us? They are Plautus and Terence; but Plautus and Terence were both slaves-and both were celebrated as much for their pure Latin
<c06>
style as for their high comic power. It was Terence, too, that uttered, in the crowded amphitheatre, that noble sentiment, admired the world over ”I am a MAN, and whatever appertains to humanity I consider as appertaining to myself”—and the vast building <illegible> with shouts of applause. And shall we, in the middle of the 19th century of the Christian era, say less than Pagan? God forbid! Shall we deny to man, as MAN, his inalienable rights? Shall we, with the grossest injustice as well as the most consummate meanness, ask the African Americans to use their bullets in our aid and defence, and then deny to them, for their own advantage, the ballot? Did we go into the war of the Revolution, with the motto, “no taxation without representation,’’” flying upon our banners; and shall we now, with an hypocrisy unparalleled in this world, impose taxes upon a noble portion of our people, and then deny to them the power of helping to choose a representative who shall decide what those taxes shall be? God forbid!
But I have already kept yon too long from hearing your noble speaker of the evening, and with pleasure do I introduce to you Mr. Frederick Douglass.

EXTRACTS FROM THE REPORT
Of the Board of Education for Freedmen, Department of the Gulf, for the Year 1864.
COLORED SCHOOL IN NEW ORLEANS.
When, in April,. 1862, the guns of Farragut transferred the city of New Orleans from rebel to national rule, no such thing as a “ Public School ” for colored children was found in the schedule of the conquest.
No such thing had ever existed in the Crescent City. Even that portion of the colored population, who, for generations, had been wealthy and free, were allowed no public school, although taxed to support the school-system of the city and State. Occasionally a small donation was made from the public fund to a school for orphans, attached to the Colored Orphans’ Asylum.
The children of the free colored people who were in good circumstances, known as “ Creoles,” generally of French or Spanish extraction, when not educated abroad, or at the North, or from fairness of complexion, by occasional admission to the white schools, were quietly instructed at home, or in a very few private schools of their class.
Even these, although not contrary to law, were really under the ban of opinion, but were tolerated, because of the freedom, wealth, respectability and light color of the parents, many of whom were nearly white, and by blood, sympathy, association, slave-holding, and other interests, were allied to the white rather than to the black.
For the poor, of the free colored people, there was no school.
To teach a slave the dangerous arts of reading and writing was a heinous offence, having, in the language of the statute, “ a tendency to excite insubordination among the servile class, and punishable by imprisonment at hard labor for not more than twenty-one years, or by death, at the discretion of the Court.”
In the face of all obstacles, a few of the free colored people, of the poorer class, learned to read and write. Cases of like proficiency were found among the slaves, where some restless bondman, yearning for the knowledge, that somehow he coupled with liberty, hid himself from public notice, to con over, in secret and laboriously, the magic letters.
In other cases, limited teaching of a slave was connived at by a master who might find it convenient for his servant to read.
Occasionally, the slave was instructed by some devout and sympathizing woman or generous man, who secretly violated law and resisted opinion for the sake of justice and humanity.
A single attempt is mentioned of a colored school kept for a few months by a lady named Brice, in 1860-.61.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR COLORED PEOPLE.
No public schools was established until October, 1863. The great work was fairly begun by the “ Commission of Enrollment,” created by order of Major General Banks, commanding Department of the Gulf.
In February, 1864, were published General Order No. 23, of Gen. Banks, known as the “ Labor Order.” That order bridged the chasm between the old and the new. By it the laborer, although a slave, was permitted to choose his employer. The governing power was shifted from the planter to the Provost Marshal.
In addition to food, clothing, quarters, fuel, medical attendance and wages, instruction for his children was promised the colored man by the Government.

BOARD OF EDUCATION FOR FREEDMEN.
In accordance with that promise,. General Order No. 38, Headquarters, Department of the Gulf, was issued by Major General Banks on March 22d ensuing.
That order created a “ Board of Education for Freedmen, for the Department of the Gulf, with power to establish common schools, employ teachers, erect school-houses,. regulate the course of studies, and have generally the same authority that Assessors, Supervisors and Trustees have, in the Northern States, in the matter of establishing and conducting common schools.”
The purpose of the order is stated to be “ for the rudimental instruction of the Freedmen of the Department, placing within their reach those elements of knowledge which give greater intelligence and value to labor.”
Two members of the Board, under this order, held their first meeting on the day of its issue, and began their work.
On the first of April, the schools conducted by the “Commission of Enrollment” were transferred to the “ Board of Education.” These schools were seven in number, employing twenty-three teachers, with an average attendance of fourteen hundred and twenty-two pupils.
There were by that time a few colored schools in the city, under the auspices of benevolent societies. One by one these were offered to the Board and accepted; and unity of purpose and concert of action soon followed among all the friends of education for colored people.
A schedule for the weekly reports of teachers was speedily prepared and issued.
From these reports, the consolidated tabular statement for each month is made up.
A course of inspection was instituted, by which each department of the schools in this city and vicinity, embracing Algiers, <illegible>, Orleans and Jefferson parishes, is visited weekly and examined.
The schools in the more distant parishes are in spected monthly—owing to the difficulty of obtaining men qualified to be school inspectors and agents, at the small salaries we pay. Although on this account the more distant schools are inspected but once a month, the teachers report weekly, which,
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of the nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; 
and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power..... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
with the correspondence maintained with the Provost Marshals, furnishes the data to determine their progress.
In spite of the war, of the fierce opposition of prejudice or passion, of all obstacles and disabilities, so really vital is this system of instruction, that at the close of the year 1864, after but nine months’ existence, the Board of Education was sustaining, in successful operation, 95 schools, with 162 teachers and 9571 pupils—being an average monthly increase of 10 schools and 15 teachers and 850 pupils.
In addition, the number of colored adults of both sexes receiving instruction in night and Sunday schools, under the auspices of the Board, is over 2000
Of the scholars in attendance in December there were—3883 writing on slates; 1108 writing in copy books; 283 studying Grammar; 1338 studying Geography; 1223 studying Practical Arithmetic; 4628 studying Mental Arithmetic; 7623 Reading; 8301 Spelling; 2103 learning the Alphabet.
Early in the spring of 1864, a census was taken by the parish Provost Marshals of all the colored children between the ages of five and twelve years, within our lines. The returns of this census indicated a school population of 15,840. Later in the season, this number was swelled by the influx of hundreds of families from the Red River country, and by colored people entering our lines at all available points. It is estimated that the number of colored children, of school-attending age, now within our lines of military occupation, in Louisiana, exceeds twenty thousand. Of that number, we have, at this writing, over eleven thousand in school.
These accessions from beyond the lines explain the apparent discrepancy in the Provost Marshal’s census with our schedule, where, in the parishes of Lafourche and Jefferson, the number of children in our schools exceeds the total, as given in the Marshal’s enrollment
The Report proceeds to recite the many difficulties attending the establishment of schools. It relates instances of privation and peril among the teachers; and of raids from rebels, guerrillas, &c
DELAYS IN PAYMENTS.
The past year has been one of great financial delays and embarrassments in this Department.
The military bureaus and offices have been largely in arrears; and even the soldiers in the field have been six or eight months without pay.
It is a matter of congratulation, that owing to the unfailing promptness and consideration with which the Major General Commanding has supplied our pecuniary needs, the employees of the Board have seldom been required to wait more than two months for their payments.
EMPLOYMENT OF SOUTHERN WOMEN.
The cases cited and many others have seemed to justify the Board in the adoption of the policy expressed in a previous report, and since adhered to— that of employing, not exclusively, but mainly, Southern women as teachers. They understand the negro. They have a competent knowledge of the people. Their Southern origin and education fit them to combat the prejudices of their former friends and associates against negro education.
If these women are willing to forego the hatred of race, the hostility of caste, the prejudice of education; if they are ready to bear the jeers and contempt of friends and kindred, and the practical exclusion from circles that hitherto have received them gladly, surely they are entitled to the first consideration. Therefore, of the one hundred and sixty-two teachers in the employ of the Board, in December last, one hundred and thirty are of Southern origin, thirty-two from the West and North. It has been our aim to select the most capable and worthy, but we have not been unmindful of those whose loyal antecedents and consequent suffering from the rebellion entitle them to sympathy and aid.
Whenever colored teachers with the requisite ability have presented themselves, we have made no distinction whatever.
ABSENCE AND THE CAUSES.
A much larger percentage of absences is found in our schools during the winter than the summer months. This is owing to the very general want of warm and suitable clothing. At least one-fifth of the school children are suffering from this cause. These, for the most part, belong to those families who have entered our State within the past year.
They come to school with singular diligence, week after week, bare-footed and bare-limbed, with garments ragged and thin, shivering over their lessons from cold and wet, but still persistent to learn.
We have made our plea for bare feet and naked shoulders to Northern charitable societies, some of which may make the Board the almoner of their benefactions.
TAX TO BE LEVIED.
By section 7th, of Order 38, the expenses of this system of education are to be “defrayed by the proceeds of a school tax, to be levied upon real and personal property sufficient in amount to meet the cost of establishing, furnishing, and conducting these schools for a period of one year.”
The average monthly expense of instructing each pupil is one dollar and a half, or eighteen dollars a year.”
It may be safely questioned if so great an advantage and so speedy a return were ever before realized by any people, from a like outlay. It is as great to the white as to the black. If this liberated population are to remain among us, as they surely will, by their right, and our need, then it is the interest of the State, and of society, that they should not be kept in ignorance, to swell the vice and pauperism that are the turbid issue of that stagnant pool.
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PUPILS.
The pupils, as a class, are orderly, industrious, and easily governed. They are exceedingly grateful for any interest and kindness shown to them. It is the testimony of our teachers, who have taught in both white and colored schools, that these children do not suffer in comparison with the white in the activity of most of their faculties, and in the acquisition of knowledge. They are quick-witted, excelling in those branches that exercise the perceptive and imitative powers, and the memory, while they are slower in arithmetic, and in studies that tax the reasoning powers—probably from a hereditary dormancy of those faculties under the long night and cruel weight of slavery.
A marked characteristic of these children is their genuine delight in learning, and the heartiness with which they repeat their exercises. Music is the natural expression of their spirits; the song never flags for want of voices. Some of their own irregular and plaintive melodies fall from their lips with a strange, deep pathos. They are also natural actors and natural orators. They read and declaim with ease, and just expression. They are quick in responding to the pathetic, as they are keen in discerning the ludicrous. Recently, we had twenty-four hundred of them in “Howes’ Circus” at one time. Four fifths of them had never seen any such thing. Some of the performers said, afterwards, that they never had a more appreciative audience— one that seemed to know, by intuition, where the laugh should come in, and where the applause. One of the clowns ventured upon a stale joke about “rain from the surrounding black clouds,” but it fell heavily and almost in silence at the feet of an audience just realizing that they have a natural right to be black without reproach.
Another habitude of these colored children is their care of books and school furniture. There is an absence of that Young America lawlessness so common on Caucasian play grounds. The walls and fences about the colored schools are not defaced, either by violence or vulgar scratching. They do not whittle or ply the jack-knife at the expense of desks and benches. It may also be said that the imagination of these juveniles is generally incorrupt and pure, and from the two most prevailing and disgusting vices of school children, profanity and obscenity, they are singularly free.
INFLUENCE OF THE SCHOOLS.
The beneficial influence of these schools is not limited to the pupils. The children go from the school-room to their homes as instructors. One of the immediate and visible results is upon the colored adult and his household, in the increase of family respect, the promotion of cleanliness and thrift, and generally and in equal degree in those good effects that like influences have produced upon the populations of other races.
Another almost immediate and marked influence of these schools is seen upon the white people in the lessening prejudice, in the admission of the African’s ability to learn, and his consequent fitness for places in the world from which we have hitherto excluded him.
The following extract from the report of a teacher in one of the parishes where we have heretofore had
<c02>
much resistance to the schools, may serve to illustrate this statement. It is the more conclusive, as the teacher is himself an educated colored man from the State of Maine:
“Everything works harmoniously now. Even the small planters (Spanish) are giving in their adhesion to the present disposition of affairs, going so far, in some cases, as to send their own children to ask admittance into this school. I have now some half-dozen of the small planters who come to my night-school, where they recite on the same beaches with the freedmen. This I consider progress.”
The children are taught exclusively in English, Bound by the strong ligament of a common tongue, they will never foster the subtle enmity to National unity that lurks in diversity of speech.
Very respectfully,
B. RUSH PLUMLY,
Chairman Board of Education for Freedmen,
Department of the Gulf
Lieut. E. M. WHEELOCK, Secretary.

The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9th, at 10 o’clock, A. M.
The Executive Committee urge upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society’s existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, C. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The joy which filled all hearts at the time of the publication of the Liberator last week, in view of the recent great and repeated successes of the National Cause over the Rebellion, and especially of the surrender of Gen. Lee and his army, was turned into grief, all our readers know but too well how completely and how profoundly, ere the week reached its close, by the most unlooked-for tidings of the DEATH, and that by the hand of a murderer, of the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
So sudden and complete a revulsion of feeling was hard to be borne; but the thought that our honored President lay dying,—dead,—the victim of one of Slavery’s basest tools, was far harder, and one which the people, with one consent, at first refused to entertain. But, ere the Saturday night of that most eventful and never-to-be forgotten week fully came, all doubts and unbelief were compelled to give way before the dreadful certainty, which, it may truly be said, has bowed down the Nation with bitter sorrow and lamentation, to an extent so general and deep, that none born in the present century can remember the like.
For no President in our day had so thoroughly, or in so large and wise a sense, identified himself with the people, sought to strengthen and build up the powers of the people, sought to give expression in his official acts to their deliberate purpose and known will, and to develop fully their best interests, as Abraham Lincoln. The people everywhere understood him, and felt sure of him. They felt that he was thinking, planning, and working, with a sincere desire to promote the high and noble ends for which the republic was created, and they had given him their confidence, their respect, aye, and their love, as to no predecessor whom they have ever known.
Mr. Lincoln has not indeed been a man of rapid action, or of bold experiment, and it has been no part of his ambition or plan to startle the country with measures for which the public mind was not prepared. Far enough from that. Yet a simple catalogue of the great acts of public policy suggested and advised by him, and adopted under his administration, could not fail to strike every reflecting mind with admiration at the amount of work accomplished, of ground gained, and at the immense progress made, alike by People and President, in the application of the principles of the Declaration of Independence to the legislation and public affairs of the Nation.
The people have not honored Mr. Lincoln the less for the careful and deliberate manner in which he has examined every step forward before taking it, and considered all its probable effects upon the great questions of the Nation’s integrity and the defeat of the Rebellion—questions which, as the sworn Chief Magistrate of the land, he was bound to keep ever and first before him. On the contrary, they have honored him, and justly, in our opinion, all the more for his course in this respect; and have felt that these qualities gave him a special fitness for his “great office,” in the wholly new, untried, and terrible circumstances with which, as President, he was called to contend.
But this it not the time to analyze and dwell upon Mr. Lincoln’s characteristics. He was a man,—therefore not perfect. But he was a man of that integrity, of that unselfishness, of such absence of pretence and assumption, of such sincere, conscientious, and in the best sense religious devotion to his country, and to the great duties which the people had laid upon him, that his memory will ever be precious in their hearts, sacredly embalmed there,—yes, identified with all their best emotions, holiest purposes, and choicest sacrifices for their country, and for that blessed Cause of Freedom for the slave and the world, of which she has been the representative and champion during these eventful last four years. Especially will they remember and bless Mr. Lincoln for those great acts of his administration whereby the supremacy, the power, and afterward the very existence of SLAVERY have been, first crippled, and next (if sustained by the people, as they surely will be) overthrown and annihilated forever. This is the great, the crowning glory of Mr. Lincoln’s Presidency. This it is which makes true those earnest, worthy words, spoken by freedom’s eloquent orator a year and a half ago, “Mr. Lincoln has won for himself, in the temple of illustrious fame, a niche so high, that no detraction can ever reach to displace him thence.” Well may we say of him, also, as was said of Wilberforce, if not with reference to a long life-time of anti-slavery effort, yet in view of the practical results of what he has officially and so honorably achieved, “He has gone up to the bar of God with millions of broken fetters in his hand.” To day, the slave,—a slave no longer,—blesses the name of Abraham Lincoln; to-day, millions of emancipated men and women, with sincere and lov-
<c03>
ing souls, thank God for Abraham Lincoln, their great deliverer! The blessing of those who were “ready to perish,” the streaming tears down their toil-worn and long-unpitied faces, are the sure witnesses for him before God,—and shall forever make him dear to the heart of the American people, and. to noble souls in every country, the world over.
Farewell to our honored and beloved President, Abraham Lincoln! We had trusted it should have been he who should have led this people clear through the wilderness, and into full possession of the promised land of Liberty and Peace. But God, in an infinite wisdom which it would ill become this people to question, has ordered otherwise. It may be that a leader bolder and more resolute, one better fitted to the exigencies of the perilous period before us, is to be given us. We feel sure that one more upright, more unselfishly devoted to the country, cannot be. Never will this people forget that, to all its other enormities, cruelties and crimes unspeakable, Slavery has added the assassination of the President, hating him for that for which every true and generous heart loved him best—even his resolute and unflinching purpose that slavery should have no longer a place in the land forever. Slavery, taking the shape of Treason, having struck for four years at the Nation’s life, and being foiled at every point, flies to its own chosen and familiar method of revenge, the murder of those whom it cannot otherwise subdue. The cup of its abominations is full, and overflows. Deeply afflict as the people are, they will not part with their indignation at this last never-to-be-forgiven crime of Slavery, until an adequate and terrible retribution is meted out to the real criminals, not to their wretched tools merely. And now, trusting, above all, that God will be with us, as in the past, so in the future, and with unabated faith in our dear country’s cause, and confidence in Liberty’s perfect triumph, we bow our heads and say, Thy will be done!—S. M.

THE ASSASSINATION AND ITS LESSON.
Another frightful, astounding revelation has been made of the character of that rebellion which has been carried on for four years in the interest of slavery. The arm that struck Sumner in the Senate chamber has given another and a surer blow. The party whose career has been signalized by lynch-law in Kansas, by perjury and robbery at Washington, by open treason land levied war at Charleston, by brutal massacre of surrendered soldiers at Fort Pillow, and by the systematic starving of thousands of prisoners at Millen and Andersonville, has made a new demonstration. The rebels have failed in policy, foreign and domestic, they have failed in strategy, they have failed in battle. Now they try assassination. We shall soon see how far this will avail them.
The plot had been long and carefully matured. So far as we can now understand, it seems probable that the design was to paralyze the nation by a simultaneous striking down of all its executive forces. It is already plain that special attempts were made to reach Secretary Stanton and the Vice President also.
But how signally has Providence brought immediate retribution upon the author of this conspiracy, the rebel Slave Power! The two persons reached by the assassin’s weapon were the two most favorably disposed to treat the traitors with lenity; to be content with foiling their ultimate purpose, without insisting on the punishment of their crimes; to assume that the leaders of the rebellion would be powerless for evil after their followers had been defeated and dispersed. Mr. Lincoln was always inclined to the idea of a very extensive, perhaps an universal amnesty; an idea in which a large number of the Republicans as well as of the Democrats concurred. In striking him down, the Slave Power has roused the nation, as by an electric stroke, to repudiate that mistaken policy, to see and feel that the rattlesnake’s fangs are still deadly, and to insure itself, by the prompt execution of justice, against the further efforts of men to whom no crime seems too black, no depth of villany too atrocious.
Mr. Lincoln always said that, in the matter of reform, he went as fast and as far as the people would follow; that he could not have acted more energetically in that direction without calling forth a perilous reaction. Some of us thought this notion of his erroneous. Some of us thought that if he had attempted more he would have accomplished more. And some of us thought that a President should go forward in the right direction, beckoning the people to follow, even though he were not certain beforehand of ready acquiescence on their part. He however pursued his own course, no doubt from a genuine conviction of its wisdom. He tried to the extreme the policy of conciliation, He offered to the rebels every indulgence which constitutional law and military necessity would allow. In the Proclamation of September, 1862, he pointed out to the slaveholders how, by giving up secession, they might save slavery. In the Proclamation of Jan. 1st, 1863, he limited emancipation, allowing the continuance of a seed of slavery, still existing under the law, in various portions of the country, which would have flourished and brought forth a hundred fold, had the rebels then had the wit to lay down their arms. He has never shown bitterness nor vindictiveness against even the basest of the rebel leaders. A kind-hearted man, of friendly, genial nature, he has always been disposed to great gentleness in the treatment of transgressors. He has repeatedly moved in the direction of offering full amnesty to the rebels, leaders and followers; at first on the sole condition of laying down their arms, and afterwards on their assent to the doctrines of Union and Emancipation. Had the surrender of Lee been followed by the surrender of Jefferson Davis, Mr. Lincoln would probably have offered full pardon to the whole population of the rebel States. He has tried, to the extent of his power, the policy of conciliation, and that policy has failed. Its failure shows the nation what system should be next adopted.
Much may be hoped, and confidently expected, from great liberality of treatment to the mass of the rebel population, on condition of holding the leaders, civil and military, to a strict account for their crimes. It would be gross injustice to the common people of the South, who were partly cheated and partly forced into secession by the wily management of the great slaveholders, to send those same miscreants back among them, with a free pardon for their infamous acts of treason, again to take the position of heads of the “first families,” again to exercise the power which great landed property always confers, and again to throw their weight of influence against the concession of justice to the colored population. The Government, bound by its function to help the weak against the strong, is as much bound to shield the poor Southern white from the aristocratic caste which has so long ruled him, as to help the freedman to take, without obstruction, the position of a freeman. The constitutional obligation of the United States to “guaranty to every State in this Union a Republican form of government” should by itself instruct the Executive not to allow the return to the Southern States of the leaders who have always tried to prevent, and who have largely succeeded in preventing, both the form and the substance of Republican government there. To the full extent of the influence retained by these men upon a population accustomed to look up to them as lords of creation, and blindly to follow their lead—to that full extent will their influence be pernicious, alike upon blacks and poor whites, upon the Government and the country. The only way to prevent their doing harm, and great harm, is to provide that they shall have no influence there, by providing against their existence there. Whether this should be done by the ordinary punishment of high treason, hanging, or by perpetual imprisonment or perpetual banishment, opinions will differ. But absolute and permanent removal of these men from contact with those who have hitherto been their dupes and victims is the imperative duty of the United States Government
There is a serious moral objection to the bestowal of amnesty upon the unrepentant perpetrators of the
<c04>
highest crimes, especially when those crimes, committed with impudent ostentation in the face of the world, have already corrupted a portion of the community to the extent of sympathy and approval. In this case, surely, the honest and right-minded people of the community should manifest their detestation of such crimes by corresponding action. Without a casting of the whole weight of their influence, promptly and energetically, into the opposite scale, they can neither provide against present detriment to the republic, nor do their part towards securing the welfare of posterity. Indeed, to act otherwise in the present case would be a premium on rebellion. It would allow the villains who have brought upon us the unspeakable miseries of this war to wait and work in hope for the time when opportunity may occur for another.—C. K.W.

THE FEELING AT THE CAPITAL.
WASHINGTON, April 16, 1865.
This is a Sunday of more heartfelt sorrow in Washington than has ever before been known. Even the heartless show an instinctive respect for public feeling, and the solemn aspect is universal.
Something more than gloom pervades the public heart. There is sternness is the sadness. There is a demand for retribution proportioned to the crime. Men will not be satisfied that the immediate assassins alone suffer. The penalty must reach further, and visit all whose actions, near or remote, have tended to this dreadful result.
This assassination is distinguished not merely by the exceeding malignity of the spirit that prompted the deed. It differs in nature from all other murders, however atrocious. It is the culmination of the vast crime of the rebellion. It is the last desperate act of the crushed Confederacy, striking at the life of the nation. It is the instinctive blow of the venomous reptile, scotched but not killed, the chosen and fit emblem of the slaveholders’ dynasty—a deed supported by Southern principle and inspired by Southern sentiment—a perfect realization of the inculcated and boasted spirit of the South, whose highest idea of patriotism is disloyalty, and whose highest reach of chivalry is assassination. It harmonizes with that public sense of honor that applauded the assassin Preston Brooks, and offered a premium for the murder of Garrison.
The chief Confederates may not have projected this particular part of their great crime, but they are justly responsible for it, as the incendiary who maliciously fires a dwelling, or the wretch who poisons a well is responsible for all the deplorable consequences that may follow. The instincts of justice demand that this dreadful deed should react upon the original instigators of the policy of crime. Had it not been for their “bloody instructions,” the cruel nature of their baser tools would not have been excited to action. Let the great originators of this code of crime be made conspicuous examples of the nation’s supreme justice—the justice which, like that of Heaven, aims its bolts at the highest heads, and would rather
“Split the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Than the soft myrtle.”
This has heretofore been the sentiment of a large proportion of loyal men. The sentiment is now greatly strengthened and become universal. “No leniency to traitors!” is the loyal watchword. The advice (slightly altered) of Polonious to his son is now most pertinent to the nation—
“So bear thyself
That, henceforth, traitors shall beware of thee.”
The pure and gentle mind of our great and good President could never fully comprehend the depravity (so foreign to his own nature) which originated this rebellion, nor the extent of punishment due to such guilt. His speech was tempered with tenderness, but his blood now speaks to the nation in a different tone. I believe in the superintendence of God, even in the most mysterious and dreadful events. He permitted this rebellion, for the extirpation of slavery, and He permitted this assassination, that it may result in the extirpation of traitors. The nation is awakened to read His purpose, and to fulfil it. D. M.
LOUISIANA FREE SCHOOLS. We give in this paper pretty copious extracts from the “Report of the Board of Education for Freedmen, Department of the Gulf, for the year 1864,” a copy of which has been sent to us from New Orleans. It details with much particularity the course which has been pursued in establishing free schools for the children of the newly-freed people of New Orleans and neighboring parishes, in providing school-rooms, (often indeed of a very poor description,) in procuring teachers, in obtaining the co-operation of the white population, and in securing protection for teachers and children,—the latter a work of no little difficulty in the country schools, where there has existed a constant liability to incursions of rebels, and to the hostile action of pretended unionists. Considering the essential difficulties attending the inauguration of the Free School system in the midst of an old slaveholding community, the success which has been attained seems to us remarkable. “In spite of a state of war,” says the Report, “of the fierce opposition of prejudice or passion, of all obstacles and disabilities, so really vital is this system of instruction, that at the close of 1864, after but nine months’ existence, the Board of Education was sustaining, in successful operation, 95 schools, with 162 teachers, and 9571 pupils”; and, in addition, “colored adults of both sexes receiving instruction in night and Sunday schools, under the auspices of the Board, ever 2000.” Yet we were told by an eloquent speaker at the annual meeting in January last, in this city, speaking in disparagement of these Louisiana schools, that “he had no doubt there were two or three hundred colored children in them”! A census taken in the spring of 1864 of “the colored children between the ages of five and twelve years, within our lines,” showed a school population of 15,840. The number of colored families which have since entered the lines, “at all available points,” has swelled this number, it is believed, to over 20,000. “Of that number, we have, at this writing, over eleven thousand in school.”
A very interesting feature brought to light in the report is the large proportion of Southern women employed as teachers by the Board. Of the whole number of 162, “130 are of Southern origin.” The Report says, “If these women are willing to forego the hatred of race, the hostility of caste, the prejudice of education; if they are ready to bear the jeers and contempt of friends and kindred, and the practical exclusion from circles that hitherto have received them gladly, surely they are entitled to the first consideration.” “It has been our aim to select the most capable and worthy, but we have not been unmindful of those whose loyal antecedents and consequent suffering from the rebellion entitle them to sympathy and aid. Whenever colored teachers, with the requisite ability, have presented themselves, we have made no distinction whatever.”
The New York Evening Post, a paper by no means given to approve blindly what the administration and its officers have done, but disposed always to welcome generously every effort in behalf of the long enslaved race, commends warmly these Louisiana schools. It says: “The facts we have extracted from this report must give great satisfaction to every lover of democratic institutions. As the blacks are educated, they will become self-helpful; but the very persons, who cry out that the colored people are a useless burden upon the community, are they who oppose the establishment of schools wherein they can be taught the advantages of industry. Happily, this fanatical and bigoted class has no longer any power.”
We commend the Report to our readers.—S. M.
Up to the hour of our going to press, the accounts from Mr. Seward, and Mr. Frederick. Seward continued favorable. Nothing reliable is known of the whereabouts of the murderer, Booth.
<c05>
ELECTIVE FRANOHISE-ITS TRUE BASIS-
A NATIONAL LEAGUE TO GUARD IT AGAINST ABUSE.
WEST NEWBURY, April 3, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-Before me is a letter published in the Liberator some twenty-seven years since, on the wrong of basing suffrage on color or sex, advocating the equality of Woman and the Negro with all others to exercise that right. Such, for thirty years, have been the teachings of the Liberator; that in this and in all governments, it was an outrage to exclude any person from the ballot because of color or sex.
The question of suffrage-Who shall vote-underlies the existence of Republican Government. Chattel slavery is disposed of. It no longer endangers this republic. But two other dangers threaten it, i. e., SUFFRAGE and the MILITARY. The ballot, while it is the only security of the republic, may become its most potent and deadly enemy. So of the bullet. While the government regards this as the final arbiter of its destiny, its only hope in the last appeal, it should never forget that it may become the instrument of its sure and swift destruction. While the ballot is the symbol of civil liberty, the bullet is the symbol of military despotism. The ballot in the hands of the people, no less than the bullet in the hands of the soldier, may be made the means of destruction to freedom and free institutions. What has been the deadliest enemy of the republic the last fifty years? The Ballot. Its abuse by ambitious demagogues and political loafers swept away, one by one, the guarantees of liberty, and nationalized the most murderous and perfect tyranny the sun ever shone upon-i. e., American slavery, “the sum of all villanies.” Its abuse brought the republic to the brink of ruin, and well-nigh engulphed it in a sea of blood-making it over into the hands of the most inhuman tyrants that ever cursed the earth. I say, the abuse of the ballot by ambitious demagogues and political loafers and blacklegs did this.
Thank God! chattel slavery is dead, by the act of the nation. The Anti-Slavery organization, through which Abolitionists have labored for more than thirty years to strike down that concocted essence of all possible cruelty and crime, is to hold its thirty-second anniversary in New York, May 9th. Then and there I hope it will vote itself into non-existence as an Anti-Slavery Society. As such, its work is done. In the war of ideas against slavery, liberty is victorious. In a war of ideas, no people ever existed who were more thoroughly drilled and disciplined than are the Abolitionists. As they disband their Anti-Slavery Society, I hope they will inaugurate another movement, second only in importance to Anti-Slavery, as it is generally received.
THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE -its true basis! Is it sex? Is it complexion? Is it property, title or station? Is it intelligence, integrity, virtue and loyalty? Shall physiological, intellectual or moral conditions be made the basis of suffrage? Ought the ballot, the one pivot on which turns the destiny of all free institutions, to be placed in the hands of drunkards and drunkard-makers; of traitors, burglars, rioters, thieves, robbers and pickpockets? Shall those who deal in bribery, and those who deal in treachery, and those who would, with a ballot, betray their country for a glass of grog, be allowed the elective franchise, while one half the people are denied its use because of sex, and millions because of color? Ought the republic to have its existence controlled by man, simply because God made him a man, and not a woman? Ought woman to be excluded from all direct control over the republic, and yet be taxed to support it, because God made her a woman and not a man? Ought the Negro to be denied the ballot because God made him a Negro, and not a Saxon?-because his ancestors came from Africa, and not from Europe?
Abolitionists! As you disband your Anti-Slavery Society, band together with a view to agitate the nation on the question of suffrage, and wage a war of ideas against abuses of the ballot. Begin this work at once. You are the people to do it. Lose not the golden opportunity presented by our national crisis. The hour, and the men and women-the army-all enlisted and drilled, are come to enter into conflict. As you have the ability and the will to discuss the subject, and grapple with the above questions, as none others have, you may bless civilization with another revolution, second only to that out of which you are now coming so triumphantly. The toiling millions of Europe and of the world will take a deeper interest in such a war of ideas for the elective franchise, and against its abuse, than they have taken in that against chattel slavery, now so victoriously brought to a close, so far as this republic is concerned.
The ballot, not the bullet, is the foundation of the republic, of all free institutions, and of civilization. The ballot, not the bullet, is the defender or the destroyer, the surest friend or the deadliest foe of life and liberty, of person and property. “True,” it is said, “the republic rests on the ballot, not on the bullet; but on what does the ballot rest? The earth rests on the turtle’s back, but on what does the turtle rest?” Not on the physiological, but only on the intellectual, domestic, social and moral conditions of the people. Based on ignorance, drunkenness, domestic, social and moral corruption; on religious bigotry, political profligacy and gambling, party scoundrelism, official bribery, and ambition for office, the ballot will surely dash in pieces the republic, and re-enslave the laboring millions.
Abolitionists! vote yourselves dead, as abolitionists, and your organization dead, as an Anti-Slavery Society; but reappear on the battle-field of ideas, as a well-organized, equipped and disciplined host to protect the ballot, and place it on the immovable, enduring foundation of impartial justice and equal rights, irrespective of sex or color. The reconstruction of the Union furnishes an opportunity to consider this subject such as centuries may not offer again. Improve it! As you lay off the Anti-Slavery armor, gird on the armor of the Elective Franchise, and never lay this off till color, sex, property, or title, in this and in all lands, have ceased to be the basis of suffrage, and of direct participation in the formation and administration of civil government.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. April 10. Hallelujah! the God of Liberty and of the Negro hath triumphed! The Confederacy of corsairs, with “chattel slavery for its cornerstone,” is a fugitive and a vagabond-without a home, without a head, without a sword, without a purse! Non est inventus-(not to be found)-is its epitaph. Its commander-in-chief, with his army, has yielded. Slavery is twice dead. Liberty is gloriously triumphant! “Hallelujah! for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth !”
I repeat-the hour and the host are come, to wage a war of ideas for the elective franchise. As the war of bullets against slavery ends in victory, will the nation dare proclaim a war of bullets against freedom? The republic has wrested the bullet from the hands of slave-mongering traitors; shall it put into their bloody hands the bullet, to be used as a still more potent means of oppression? A GREAT NATIONAL LEAGUE of men and women, to place the elective franchise on the firm and immovable foundation of impartial justice and equal rights, irrespective of sex, color, property, creeds title, or station, is now the great call of civilization! The ballot, not the bullet, is, theoretically, the supreme power in this republic, and must be in all popular governments. Had the slaveholders and their allies been obedient to the ballot, not a drop of blood had been shed, not a house had been made desolate, not a mother’s heart had been riven with anguish by this civil war. Let us have a League, a National Organization of men and women-a GRAND NATIONAL INSTITUTION OF COLLEGE, to teach the people the only true basis and use of the ballot Three thousand millions have been spent in four years to teach them how to use the bullet. They have used it; and with what result! Slavery is indeed dead Are Liberty and the Republic safe? The ballot must
<c06>
answer A skilful use of the bullet by the soldier <illegible> crushed slavery and rebellion-so far as this <illegible> do it. A wise use of the ballot in the hands of <illegible> must insure the republic the enjoyment of <illegible> and peace. Who shall be the voters! The people <illegible> the bullet into the hands of Lincoln, Grant, <illegible> Sheridan, &c. In whose hands will they <illegible> ballot? Into the hands of the loyal, or <illegible> the friends, or enemies of freedom! Shall them the good, the loyal, the brave, heroic martyrs freedom be excluded from the ballot, be cause of or color? Let all the people, men and women, and to answer this question.
H. C. W.

MRS. F. E. W. HARPER.
WAYLAND, April 4, 86
FRIEND GARRISON-We had quite a pleasure and price, last evening, in our little Sleepy Hollow village. Mrs. F. E. W. Harper lectured her, with “Mission of the War.” I told her few people return out, because they were not generally much interested in the progressive questions of the day. In the Hall was crowded to overflowing. Her learn was all I could have desired it to be; fall of <illegible> sense, all aglow with poetic imagery, and dimpled has and there with ripples of humor. She was frequency interrupted by applause, and the satisfaction seen to be universal and enthusiastic.
She has a very important mission to fulfil, and will render efficient aid at this crisis in helping to remark the barrier of prejudice, and assisting in the elements of her long-oppressed people. While I listened to her fluent utterance of just and noble thoughts, found it difficult to realize that she was the display and grand-daughter of slaves.
Yours, truly,
L.MARIA CHILD.
THE OLD FLAG AT SUMTER. The particular of the celebration at Fort Sumter, on Friday last have reached us, by the way of Baltimore, but we have <illegible> room for anything more than the merest <illegible> The event attracted a crowd of visitors to Charles and early in the morning, the streets and where were thronged with people. All the national venue were decorated with colors, and salutes were first eight o’clock in honor of the capitulation of Lee, the news of which was received on Thursday by the steamer “Oceans.”  Some three or four thousand persons were present, including from 400 to 500 citizens of Charleston.
The ceremonies at the Fort commenced by shouting the song and chorus entitled “Victory at Last, and a prayer by Rev. Mr. Harris, chaplain is the army, the same who offered prayer when Major has removed his command to Sumter, Dec. 2 1860. Then followed reading from the Palm the Rev. Dr. Storrs and the people alternately. Major Anderson’s dispatch announcing the fall of his Sumter was read by Gen. Townsend. Major Anderson then addressed the assembly as follows:-
“I am here, my friends and fellow-citizens are brother soldiers, to perform an act of duty which dear to my heart, and which all of you present appreciate and feel. Did I listen to the promptings of own heart, I would not attempt to speak; but I have been desired by the Secretary of War to make the remarks. By the considerate appointment of the horde Secretary of War, I am privileged to fulfil cherished wish of my heart through four long years bloody war, to restore to its proper place this very which floated here during peace before the first <illegible> this cruel rebellion. Thank God, I have lived as this day! (applause) that I have lived to be here perform this, perhaps, the last act of duty to my country in this life. My heart is filled with greater Almighty God for the signal blessings which he given us-blessings beyond number. May all the word proclaim-‘Glory to God in the highest earth peace, and good will toward men!’”
Tumultuous shouts welcomed the throwing of <illegible> flag to the breeze. A salute of 100 guns from Soldiers and a national salute from the fleet and the forts in harbor followed. The singing of the “Star Speed Banner” ensued, the whole audience joining. I Beecher then delivered on eloquent address, of who we shall give extracts next week.
The next day, the colored people had a gals from Three thousand of them, and a long procession of girls and boys, turned out to greet their friends from North, and escorted them, with a hand of any through the principal streets, all the way raising she that made the welkin ring. A grand meeting was held in Zion’s Church, thousands being present, which was powerfully addressed by Judge Kelly, of Philadelphia. Senator Wilson, Wm. Lloyd General George Thompson, and Theodore Tilton, of New York. Mr. Garrison’s reception is described as <illegible> been enthusiastic beyond description.

FUNERAL OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The funeral obsequies of our lamented and belong President took place at Washington on Wednesday and the impressive and touching circumstances tending them come to us freighted with much interest. “The spirit of the day entered into the spirits of men, and the thousands who early and towards the gates of the While House walked on reverent steps and spoke in low tones.” The viral services were held in the East Rome, and we conducted by Rev. P. D. Gurley, Rev. Dr. Re. Bishop Simpson, and Rev. Dr. E. H. Chaplain of the Senate, in the presence of the President’s family, with the exception of Mrs. Lincoln who has not left her room since Saturday; legations from Illinois and Kentucky, the home birthplace of Mr. Lincoln; the Governors of Shalton representatives of the principal cities; the Corps, mostly in full Court dress, as I wearing cover on the arm; President Johnson and the members of the Cabinet; officers and members of the Senates.  House of Representatives; the Justice of the Supreme Court; the principal Army and Navy offices and Mrs. Stanton, Mrs. Welles, Mrs. Usher, Mrs. Dennison, Mrs. Sprague, and Miss. Nettie Chase only ladies present.  Soon after twelve o’clock  Rev. Dr. Hall began the reading of the sub Episcopal burial service, commencing, “I am resurrection and the life.”  He then read the last of the 15th chapter of 1st Corinthians.  At the conclusion of the chapter, Bishop Simpson allow prayer of great fervor and pathos, which members present to tears.  The funeral discourse was then livered by Rev. Mr. Gurley,-a touching and genealogy of the departed, and an affecting testimony his rare simplicity and integrity of character and trust in God.
At the conclusion of the discourse, the calls to removed to the hearse, and the sad procession, have by a detachment of colored troops, moved down.  Avenue to the Capitol, where the body was deepen in the Rotunda. The streets were densely lived of people, and the emblems of mourning appeased every hand. It is estimated that there were and than thirty thousand persons in the processions, companied by thirty full bunds, and it occupied two full and a quarter in passing a given point. 
A nation mourns him. But behind this chars, grief, behold, “the shining Hand” beckons as ward!
]”His ways are not as our ways; the new birth
At cost of the old life is often given.
To day, God crowns the martyr in his <illegible>
Tomorrow, whips his murderers on our earth.”
JOSHUA H. ROBBINS, OF HARWICH.  Then and afflictive accident which caused the like this gentleman has already been mentioned in super.  Crowded as our columns are, they must be closed without a word of respectful and contribute to his memory.  He was an early, warned, generous friend of the Anti Slavery <illegible> and was at all times ready to given his active a rule its promotion; and his heart and his home forever open to its advocates.  The cause of the <illegible> and of the freedman, throughout Barnstable cause is largely indebted to the seal, courage and perseverance of Mr. Robbins; and, in his death, it his an untiring and able friend.  We offer our <illegible> sympathies to the bereaved family.-M.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
APPALLING NATIONAL CALAMITY, 
Assassination of President Lincoln.
ATTEMPT TO KILL. MR. SEWARD. 
Frederick Seward and others Seriously Wounded.
OFFICIAL.
WAR DEPARTMENT, April l6—1 30 A. M.
Mojor General Dix:
This evening, about 9.20 P M. at Ford’s Theatre, the President while sitting in his private box with Mrs. Lincoln, Miss Harris and Major Rathbone, was shot by an assassin, who suddenly entered the box and approached behind the President. The assassin then leaped upon the stage, brandishing a large dagger, or knife, and made his escape in the rear of the theatre. the pistol ball entered the back of the President’s head, and penetrated nearly through the head. The wound is mortal The President has been insensible ever since the wound was inflicted, and is now dying. About the same hour an assassin, whether the same or not, entered Mr Seward’s apartment, and, under pretence of having a prescription was shown to the Secretary’s sick chamber. The assassin immediately rushed to the bed and inflicted two or three stabs on the throat and two on the face. It is hoped that the wounds may not prove mortal. My apprehension is that they will prove fatal. The nurse alarmed Mr. Frederick Seward, who was in an adjoining room, and he hastened to the door of his father’s room, where he met the assassin, who inflicted upon him one or more dangerous wounds. The recovery of Frederick Seward is doubtful.
It is not probable that the President will live through the night.
Gen Grant and wife were advertised to be at the theatre this evening, but he started for Burlington, N.J., this evening.
At the cabinet meeting, at which General Grant Was present the subject of the state of the country And the prospect of a speedy peace were discussed. The president was very cheerful and hopeful, and Spoke very kindly of Gen. Lee and others, and of the Confederacy, and of the establishment of a government in virginia. All the members of the Cabinet except Mr. Seward, are now in attendance upon the president.
I have seen Mr Seward, but he and Frederick were both unconscious.
EDWIN M.STANTON.
Secretary of War
WAR DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, April 15, 8 A.M.
Major general Dix:
Abraham Lincoln died this morning at twenty-two Minutes after 7 o’clock.
E.M. STANTON.
Secretary of War.
We compile, from various sources, the following particulars of this fearful tragedy which has plunged the nation into a sorrow too deep for words:
The metropolis has been to-night the scene of a double attempts at assassination —President Lincoln and Secretary Seward having been the victims of an evidently deep-laid plot, which has no parallel in American history.
It has been the custom of President Lincoln to frequently attend the theatres here, to escape from the office seekers and volunteer-advisers who have haunted him at the White house. In the papers of this afternoon it was announced that he, with Mrs. Lincoln and Lieut Gen. Grant, would to night attend Ford’s Theatre, to witness Miss Laura Keene in the part of Alice Trenchard in "Our American Cousin." The house was crowded. The President occupied what is termed the State box. composed of the two lower right-hand private bones thrown into one, and ornamented with flags Mr. Lincoln enjoyed the performance and was in unusually good spirits, chatting with Mrs. Lincoln and Miss Harris, who was of the party, when he, without warning, received his death-wound A man (who, it has been ascertained, was J. wilkes Booth) was observed working his way through the crowd of people towards the box occupied by the party but of course no suspicion was excited by the circumstance. When he reached the sentry at the door of the box, he was of course refused admittance, but, in a whisper, he announced himself as a Senator, and said the President had sent for him. He was then allowed to pass in, when Major Rathbone confronted him, in a low tone of voice, with "You mistake, sir, this is the president’s box." Booth gracefully begged turned to go, and struck at Major Rathbone with a knife, inflicting a severe but not dangerous wound He stepped out of the box, passed on to the second door, which was closed, fired through it, stepped back again into the box at the first door, and in an instant had sprung down upon the stage, with the cry of Sic semper tyrannies The whole affair was the work of thirty seconds. Major Rathbone made no outcry at first, because he did not wish to create alarm. All in box, as well as the sentry outside, heard the pistol shot. but at first supposed it fired in the course of the play. Mr. Lincoln made no outcry when hit, and Mrs. Lincoln made no outcry when hit and Mrs. Lincoln only discovered it when she turned to him after Booth rushed past her and jumped upon the. stage That Booth meant to kill the President is clear enough, but that he did kill him shooting through a door and at an angle which he must have measured with his eye when he first looked into the box, is something most remarkable. He must have trained his mind for just such emergencies as actually and finally came, or else the success of his shot was a mere stroke of luck to him. in any event firing as he did, he could scarcely hope for such success once in twenty times, He was recognized by Miss Laura Keene and by others on and off the stage to whom he is well known. In running off, he struck and knocked over a young actress who was just entering, and encountered and stabbed the leader of the orchestra Booth reached the stage door before any one was fairly aware of what had happened, for Mrs. Lincoln did not know that had husband was shot until after the assassin had passed her and jumped on the stage, and it was her scream that aroused the audience. The murderer then mounted his horse, which he had left there in readiness for just such an exit, and since that moment as far as the public knows, there is no sure trace of his course.
The President was carried to a boarding-house opposite the theatre, where he remained until his death, surrounded by his family. Cabinet, and a few friends, Senator Sumner was among those at his side, weeping over the departing author of the Emancipation Proclamation, whose goodness of heart the Senator so well known. Vice president Johnson arrived about half-past twelve and joined the sad group. 
Mrs. Lincoln, with female friends, remained in an adjoining room occasionally visiting the dying man. Who loved her so devotedly. The last visit is described as having been soul Harrowing to those present. As she entered the room and saw her beloved husband’s features were disturbed and discolored, she tell back on the floor Restoratives were applied and she was soon supported to the bedside when she frantically addressed the dying man. "Live!" she exclaimed; "live but for one moment, to speak to me once more to speak to our children. O! bring our 'Tad 'here! for he loves 'Tad" so well, that I know he will speak to him "But she was not again to hear the voice that had cheered her life, and no sign of recognition gladdened her grief-stricken heart.
The President and Mrs. Lincoln did not start for the theatre until 15 minutes after 8 o’clock. Speaker Colfax was at the white House at the time, and the President stated to him that he was going, although Mrs. Lincoln had not been well, because the papers had announced that he and General Grant were to be present, and as Gen Grant had gone North, he did not wish the audience, to be disappointed. He went with apparent reluctance and urged Mr. Colfax to go with him but that the gentleman had made other arrangements, and, with Mr. Ashmum, of Massachusetts, bade him good-bye.
The President was received with great furore on entering the Theatre; his reception was indeed extraordinary. One of the actors, Mr. Hawk, had made the remark, as "Dundreary," "This reminds me of a story as Mr. Lincoln says," and was telling the story as the president entered. The enthusiasm of the audience interrupted the story for several minutes after the President was seated. The actor was forced by the people to tell the story over again.
The scene of excitement at the theatre when the murder was committed was of the wildest description, and had the audience secured the assassin, he would have been torn to pieces.
while the Cabinet and a few friends remained in the room of the dying Chief Magistrate, an investigation murder was commenced by Judge David. Carter, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the District Columbia, is another room of the same house. Gradually the assassin of the President became identified as J. Wilkes Booth, the actor, and in that men’s trunk found at his room were damning evidences that the tragedy is the trait of a deep laid conspiracy At least five persons are known to have been concerned All the parties implicated are Mary-land men.
It appears from a letter found in Booth’s trunk, that the murder was planned before the 4th March, but fell through then, because the accomplice backed out until Richmond could be heard from.
The President was shot with a common pocket pistol resembling a Derringer which the assassin fired within a few feet of him. The fatal ball entered the head near the temple bone, about three inches from the left ear and penetrated nearly to the eye. 
When the excitement at the theatre was at its wildest height, report were circulated that secretary Seward had also been assassinated. On reaching this 
<c02>
gentleman’s residence, a crowd and a military guard were found at the door, and on entering , it was ascertained that the reports were based on truth.
About ten o’clock, a man rang the door bell, and the call having been answered by a colored servant, he said he had come from Dr. Virdi, Mr. Seward’s family physician, with a prescription, at the same time holding in his hand a small piece of folded paper, and saying, in answer to a refusal, that he must see the Secretary, as he was entrusted with particular directions concerning the medicines. He still insisted on going up, although repeatedly informed that no one could enter the chamber. He pushed the servant aside, and entered the room where the sick man lay in bed on his back. There were four persons in the room at the time—Major Seward, Miss Fanny Seward, a hired nurse, and the chief messenger of the State Department. The assassin jumped upon the bed and endeavored to cut the throat of his victim. He inflicted three different wounds. While engaged in it, the male nurse had flung himself upon his bed and thrown his arms around him and strove to pull him off the bed. The murderer reversed the action of his knife and cut quickly over his shoulder, and drove the nurse off his back. He then sprang from the bed and engaged in a fight for escape with all who opposed him. He stabbed the chief messenger dangerously in the breast. He stabbed Maj. Seward in the arm and beat him over the head and face with a heavy pistol and disabled him. He then attacked Frederick Seward, who had entered the room from an adjoining chamber, and gave him a scalp wound with his knife, which, strange to say, commenced at the forehead, passed over the top of the head, and extended part way down the back of the head, and then struck him with a pistol or a slung shot a heavy blow which knocked him down insensible. The way of escape was then clear. He ran down stairs, mounted his horse, and drove rapidly away. The assassin is said to have been traced by the horse he rode to the Long Bridge and over into Virginia.
The attacks at both the theatre and the Secretary’s house took place at about the same hour—ten o’clock —thus showing a preconcerted plan to assassinate! these gentlemen.
The assassin of the President left behind him his hat and a spur. The hat was picked up in the President’s box, and has been identified as one belonging to the suspected man. The spur was dropped upon the stage, and that also has been identified as one procured at the stable where the same man hired a horse in the evening.
Two gentlemen who went to the Secretary of War to apprise him of the attack on Mr. Lincoln, met at the residence of the former a man muffled in a cloak, who, when accosted by them, hastened away. It had been Mr. Stanton’s intention to accompany Mr. Lincoln to the theatre and occupy the same box, but a press of business prevented. It, therefore, seems evident that the aim of the plotters was to paralyze the country by at once striking down its head, heart and arm.
The murderer Booth has played more than once at Ford’s Theatre, and he is, of course, acquainted with its exits and entrances, and the facility with which he escaped behind the scenes is easily understood.
Booth has for some months back been a guest at the National hotel here. He has not said much on political subjects, though he is known to be a secessionist. He represented himself as having made some $30,000 in oil speculations, and as having retired from the stage, although he played a few weeks since, at McCulloch’s benefit, as a favor. He was a trained gymnast, and had doubtless calculated to leap on the stage, which he took with agility, recovering his feet instantaneously. In his trunk were several letters and photographs, a pair of steel handcuffs, with the key, together with some ammunition for the pistol used. He sold his own horse a few days since, and hired the one on which he commenced his escape.
The person who attempted to assassinate Secretary Seward left behind him a slouched hat and an old, rusty navy revolver. The chambers were broken loose from the barrels, as if done by striking. The loads were drawn from the chambers, one being but a rough piece of lead, and the others, smaller than the chambers, were wrapped in paper, as if to keep them from falling out.
As soon as the dreadful events were announced in the streets, Superintendent Richards and his assistants were at work to discover the assassins. In a few moments, the telegraph had aroused the whole police of the city. Mayor Wallack and several members of the city government were soon on the spot, and every preparation was made to preserve order and quiet. Every street was patrolled. At the request of Mr. Richards, Gen. Augur sent horses to mount the police. He also offered a reward of $10,000 for the arrest of the assassins, which has since been increased, from various sources, to $40,000.
Every road leading out of Washington was strongly picketed, and every possible avenue of escape thoroughly guarded. Steamboats about to start down the Potomac were stopped.
THE CLOSING SCENES. AS officially stated above, the President died at 20 minutes past 7 o’clock, closing his eyes as if falling asleep. His countenance assumed an expression of perfect serenity. There were no indications of pain, and it was not known that he was dead until the gradually decreasing respiration ceased altogether.
Rev. Dr. Gurley, immediately on its being ascertained that life was extinct, knelt at the bedside and offered an impressive prayer, which was responded to by all present.
Dr. Gurley then proceeded to the front parlor, where Mrs. Lincoln, Capt. Robert Lincoln, Mrs. John Hay, the Private Secretary, and others, were waiting, where he again offered a prayer for the consolation of the family.
Surrounding the death bed of the President were Secretaries Stanton, Welles, Usher, Attorney General Speed, Postmaster General Dennison, M. B. Field, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Judge Otto, Assistant Secretary of the Interior, General Halleck, General Meigs, Senators Sumner, R. F. Andrews, of N. Y., Gen. Todd, John Hay, Private Secretary, Governor Oglesby of III., Gen. Farnsworth, Mrs. and Miss Kenny, Miss Harris, Capt. Robert Lincoln, son of the President, and Doctors E. M. Abbott, R. K. Stone, C D. Gatch, Neal Hall, and Mr. Liebeman.
Secretary McCulloch remained with the President until 5 A. M., and Chief Justice Chase, after several hours’ attendance during the night, returned early this morning. 
Immediately after the President’s death, a cabinet meeting was called by Secretary Stanton, and was held in the room in which the corpse lay. 
The body of Mr. Lincoln was laid out in the northwest room on the second floor of the White House. It was dressed in the suit of plain black which he wore at the inauguration last month. White flowers were about the head, and the features were the half smiling, half sad expression common to him during the last two years.
THE PRESIDENT’S MURDERER.
There seems now but little reason to doubt that the wretch whose name will be branded with everlasting infamy, as the murderer of Abraham Lincoln,. was John Wilkes Booth, the actor.
He was the third son of Junius Brutus Booth, an Eng lish actor, who first appeared on the London stage in the year 1820, and was a few years afterwards driven to emigrate to this country with his wife, in consequence of a quarrel with Edmund Kean. Mr. Booth played successful engagements in the principal cities, and made a wide reputation for himself as an actor,—in fact, he was probably more widely popular than any other actor who has visited this country. He had four sons, Junius Brutus, Jr., Edwin, John Wilkes and Joseph, and one daughter, who afterwards married J. S. Clarke, the actor. These children were brought up in Hartford county, Maryland, where Mr. Booth presently took up his residence.
All the family adopted the stage as their profession, but Edwin Booth is the only one who has obtained a position that at all approaches eminence. John Wilkes Booth has played many engagements in this city, but was given to rant and mouthing, and showed in his acting the coarseness of his nature. His last engagement here was at the Howard Athenaeum about a year ago. He is about twenty-five years of age, and unmarried. He is strongly built and muscular, with black hair and a dark complexion. We have been informed that his character was far from good, and that although some of the members of his profession may at first have been friendly toward him, on account of his family connections, yet his tastes led him to seek the lowest company, and that this and his avowed disloyally have of late caused him to be shunned by his brother actors. It is stated that he has been heard to express in the most violent language his hatred of the North and the Union, and lately his determination to kill the President. It is also stated, and we believe with truth, that he was driven by his brother Edwin from his house, for continuing to utterr his treasonable language. 
Wilkes Booth has for the last year given up the stage, and engaged in oil speculations which, have, it is said, proved profitable. He played once in New York last winter for the benefit of the fund for the Shakapeare statue,—in the tragedy of "Julius Caesar," if we mistake not,—with his two brothers Junius Brutus and Edwin. He has also appeared once in Washington, on the occassion of the benefit of an actress, at Ford’s theatre, when the assassination took place.
He was in this city no longer ago than last Monday, and on that day, and perhaps on previous days, visited the shooting gallery of Messrs. Floyd & Edwards in Chapman place, opposite the Parker House, and practised with a pistol, firing with the weapon under his leg, behind his neck, and in other strange positions. He is represented as being a frequent visitor at the gallery during his stay in Boston, and as having been very expert with the pistol. At this time, we are told he did not talk of politics, and spoke only of ordinary every day matters —Boston Advertiser.
<c03>
ADDRESS OF GOV. ANDREW TO THE MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE,
MONDAY, April 17, 1865. 
Gentleman of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:
Since the last adjournment of the General Court of Massachusetts, the people of the United States have been overtaken by a great and enduring sorrow. In the midst of the exultations of recent and repeated victory, in the midst of the highest hopes, of the most auspicious omens, in the hour of universal joy, the nation passed at once, by an inscrutable and mysterious Providence, into the Valley of the Shadow of Death. Assembled while the cloud is yet thick upon our eyes, and the hearts of men are oppressed by the sense of a strange dismay, it has become my mournful duty to record by formal and official announcement to the legislative department of the Commonwealth, this calamitous and distressing event.
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, is no more. He departed this life at the city of Washington, on Saturday, the 15th day of the present month of April, A. D. 1865, at twenty-two minutes past seven o’clock in the morning.
On Friday, he was possessed of all the faculties of his mind and body, in the active performance of the functions of his great office, and devoted himself throughout the day with cheerful and hopeful courage, and with his wonted, vigorous power and patient assiduity, to the duties it required of him. In the evening, surrounded by his family, in a place of public resort and amusement, and in the presence of a crowded audience, gathered partly to greet him as the President of the Union, and in happy recognition of the triumphant victories just achieved over the rebel army in Virginia, (which had resulted in a rout, closely followed by its surrender)—before the very eyes of the people of whom he was the elect and honored Chief Magistrate, he fell beneath the sudden, unwarned and unsuspected assault of an assassin, whose deed of blood has hardly a parallel for its combination of audacity and wickedness in the annals of crime.
A bullet shot from a fire-arm penetrated his brain. He fell senseless and bleeding, with a wound, the mortal nature of which was immediately apparent; and was borne from the scene only to linger a few hours in unconscious suffering, and then to die. The people of this continent rose from their slumbers on the morning of Saturday, to read the announcement by telegraph, which brought to their homes the dreadful intelligence of the murderous assault, which was scarcely read before the terrible tragedy closed, with the announcement soon flashed along the wires, that the assassin’s work was complete, and that the MAN on whom the people hung with fonder hope and confidence then had ever been exercised within the memory of the generation to which we belong—the Great Man, the Good President, the fortunate Head of the Nation, the Peaceful Hero in the councils and work of War had died, the victim of an enemy to his country and mankind, adding martyrdom itself to his other and scarcely less emphatic claims to human veneration, gratitude and love.
In my capacity of a citizen, I was a supporter of this eminent and now historical personage for the Presidency of the United States, on the occasion of his first, and also of his second election. I assisted in his first nomination in the month of May, 1860, and as a representative of this Commonwealth, was on the committee who visited him at this home to convey to him the formal invitation to become a candidate for the suffrages of those citizens whose general views on public affairs he was supposed best to represent. During the more than four years since his first inauguration as President, it has been my duty and my great honor to participate in bringing to the support and defence of the National Government, under his Presidential administration, the powerful resources of patriotic will, of loyal hearts, of means, of arms and of men, contributed by Massachusetts to the establishment of the rights of the nation, and the liberties of the people.
Brought by these means into relations with President Lincoln, personal not less than official, which could not fail to disclose the character and reveal the man, I desire on this grave occasion to record my sincere testimony to the unaffected simplicity of his manly purpose, to the constancy with which he devoted himself to his duty, to the grand fidelity with which: he subordinated himself to his country, to the clearness, robustness, and sagacity of his understanding, to his sincere love of truth, his undeviating progress in its faithful pursuit, and to the confidence which he could not fail to inspire in the singular integrity of his virtues and the conspicuously judicial quality of his intellect.
He had the rare gift of discerning and setting aside whatever is extraneous and accidental, and of simplifying an inquiry or an argument by just discriminations. The purpose of his mind waited for the instruction of his deliberate judgment; and he was. never ashamed to hesitate, until he was sure it was intelligently formed. Not greatly gifted in what is called the intuition of reason, he was nevertheless of so honest an intellect that, by the processes of methodical reasoning, he was often led so directly to his result, that he occasionally seemed to rise into that peculiar sphere which we assign to those who by original constitution are natural leaders among men. Not by nature a leader, neither was he by nature a follower; and by force of his rare union and balance of certain qualities, both intellectual and moral, he was enabled to rise to the dignity of master of his own position, in a place exacting and difficult almost beyond the precedents of history. Educated wholly as a civilian, his fame will be forever associated with his administration of public affairs in a civil war, unexampled in its proportions, and conducted on his own side with such success as to command his own reelection by the free will of a free people.
Perhaps little that he spoke or wrote will pass into literature, yet few men have ever written or spoken with greater effect or to better purpose in appealing, over the passions of the hour, to the sober judgment of men, face to face with their combined duties and interests; and very few there have been who knew so well as he how to reach the understanding of plain and honest men who compose the intelligent masses of the American people.
Possessed of a will of unusual firmness and tenacity, his heart was placable, humane and tender. He exerted powers the most extensive and various, stretching into that undefined and dangerous region of administrative jurisprudence, where the rights and duties of the military Commander in-Chief limit and merge into themselves the functions of the civil magistrate, and even of the judicial tribunal. And yet, if we should concede to his enemies all that disappointed animosity and defeated disloyalty have been able to allege against him, we should still be enabled to challenge all human history to produce the name of a ruler more just, unselfish or unresentful. Cheerful, patient and without egotism, he regarded and treated himself as the servant of the people, using his powers only for their cause, using no more than the cause seemed clearly to demand, and using them alike without passion and without perturbation.
It were premature for us to assert how, or how far, during the four years of his administration, he led this American people. The unfolding of events in the history we are yet to enact will alone determine the limits of such influence. It is enough for his immortal glory that he faithfully represented this people, their confidence in democratic government, their constancy in the hour of adversity, and their magnanimity in the hour of triumph.
Of that narrow and bigoted conceit of intelligence which affects to measure truth by the standard of its own conceptions, he had none. Nor did the argument! of apparent and superficial consistency, so often the bugbear of meaner minds, weigh down for an instant, in the scales of his serene and conscientious adjudications of duty and verity, the imperative demands of any doctrine or any method, however newly discovered.
Coming to the Presidency, pre-occupied by the traditional theories and opinions of the political school in which he was educated, he devoted himself with a purpose, single and exclusive, to the practical interpretation of events, to the study of those lessons taught by the experience through which the country was called to pass; and learning, in common with a majority of his country men, in the strafes and agonies of the rebellion, by the lurid glare of the fires of treason and of civil war, how to accommodate opinion to the altered relations of States, interests and sections of the people, he marched side by side with the advancing hosts of the best and most discerning, in the direction where Divine Providence pointed the way. 
Comparing his declarations of purpose and of inclination with the great actions of his career, we recognize how that career was shaped by external, more than by internal forces. Until long after his inauguration he never proposed nor counted upon war. He proposed only to hold, occupy and possess the places and the property which were within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. And yet he waged to a successful issue a civil war the most tremendous which history records. Nor had he ever proposed or inclined to interfere with slavery in the States. He proposed only to check its spread and suppress its existence in places within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Union. And yet he proclaimed liberty to three millions of American slaves, and prepared the way for universal emancipation.
Without disparagement, then, of his loftiness of motive and fullness of achievement, and without detraction from the measure of his glory, may we not recognize in his career a Direction Supreme above the devices or conceptions of man, and seeing thus how a Divine Hand has led us through these paths of trial, yield confidingly to its guidance in all future years?
Standing, as we do, by the open grave of Abraham Lincoln, we seem to have taken now a new departure in our history. The cannon which fulminated the thunders of rebellion against the walls of Fort Sumter were the signal-guns of a revolution which,—urned back upon itself by the glorious uprising of a
<c04>
free people,—has advanced, on its swelling tide, the Cause which the Rebellion was intended to destroy. Thus far, the moral defeat of treason has been exemplary and overwhelming. The vigor and persistency of the People, their energy in the greatest exigencies of a nation, while the tremendous and dreadful behests of war summoned them to duty, have been fully vindicated.
We had outlived the weary period of delays and military discouragement; through many disappointments; and out of many disasters, we had risen to the loftiest and sunniest heights of assured decisive and overwhelming victory in the field of arms. Four years, to a single day, had intervened while this work of the American people was going on, when upon the anniversary of the attack on Sumter, the Flag of the Union, borne back with pomp and pageant, was restored, with becoming ceremony, to its citadel, by the same hands which had been compelled by superior force to strike it in token of surrender. Abraham Lincoln had been spared and sustained, through all these weary months and years, to witness the majestic triumphs, the conquering marches of our resistless armies, to hear the last wail of disloyal discontent in the loyal States, to receive the united congratulations of the acclaiming millions of his countrymen, to reap a sweeter and richer reward of deliverance and victory than had ever been enjoyed by any ruler of the sons of men. His career closed at a moment when <illegible> dramatic unity was complete, and when his departure from life on earth was the apotheosis, the translation, by which, defended against all the shocks and mishaps of Time, he passed on to Immortality.
"Besides, this Duncan
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been 
So clear in his great office, that his virtues 
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against 
The deep damnation of his taking off; 
And pity like a naked new-born babe. 
Striding the blast, or heaven’s cherubim horsed 
Upon the sightless couriers of the air, 
Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye, 
That tears shall drawn the wind."
But to us who survive, to the country for whose honor and deliverance he laid down his life, there remain the task and the opportunity now more clearly revealed.
The barbarism which originated treason and rebellion against a government free, united and paternal; which hunted and hanged political dissenters; starved to death its prisoners of war; made war as well through robbers and incendiaries as by organized armies; rewarded perjuries, and desecrated the remains of the fallen brave; the barbarism which made human slavery the god of its idolatry, has passed on to the final demonstration of its character in the logical development of its history, until it has crowned its own infamy, and challenged the burning hatred-and contempt of all human nature, by adding this assassination, this parricide, to the blistering record of its crimes. From this hour may the men of Massachusetts rise up to a new and loftier resolution. With the fall of Sumter we dedicated ourselves to the over-throw of treason, to the suppression of rebellion, and the restoration of the honor and power of the Union. In the appeal to Force, Treason and Rebellion have been conquered. As an organized military power, the confederacy of traitors has practically ceased to be. But there now remains to us yet another and perhaps a greater labor. On the ruins of that social despotism, over the fallen altars of that barbarism in whose despairing death-throe was planned and executed this dastardly assassination, by the side of the bleeding form of all that was mortal in that magnanimous Father of his People, let us pronounce the vows of a new obedience.
"Powers depart,
Possessions vanish, and opinions change, 
And passions hold a fluctuating seat; 
But by the storms of circumstance unshaken, 
And subject neither to eclipse nor wane,
DUTY exists."
Order, law, freedom, and true civilization, must rise into life over all the territory blasted by despotism, barbarism and treason. The schemes of sentimental politicians, who neither learn nor forget, whose ideas of constructive statesmanship are only imitative as are the mechanical ideas of the bee or the beaver, the plans of men who would rebuild on the sand, for the sake of adhering to a precedent, must be utterly, promptly and forever rejected.
Let the government and the people resolve to be brave, faithful, impartial and just. With the blessing of God, let us determine to have a country, the home of liberty and civilization. Let us deserve success, and we shall surmount every obstacle; we shall survive delays; we shall conquer defeat; we shall win a peaceful victory for the great ages of the future, and for the cause of mankind; we shall requite these years of toil and war. The blood of all this noble army of the martyrs—from the soldiers of Massachusetts who fell in Baltimore, to Abraham Lincoln, the President, who has mingled his own with theirs—the blood of this noble army of martyrs shall be, as of old, the seed of the church.
"Flung to the viewless winds,
Or on the waters cast,
Their ashes shall be watched
And gathered at the last;
While from their scattered dust,
Around us and abroad, 
Shall spring a precious seed 
Of witnesses for God."
INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT JOHNSON.
WASHINGTON, April 16. Yesterday morning Attorney General Speed waited upon Hon. Andrew Johnson, Vice President of the United States, and officially informed him of the sudden and unexpected decease of President Lincoln, and suggested that an early hour might be appointed for the inauguration of a successor. The following is a copy of the communication:—
WASHINGTON CITY, April 15,1865. 
SIR—Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, was shot by an assassin last evening at Ford’s Theatre in this city, and died at the hour of 22 minutes past 7 o’clock.
About the same time at which the President was shot, an assassin entered the sick chamber of Hon. Wm. H. Seward, Secretary of State, and stabbed him in several places in the throat, neck and lace, severely, if not mortally wounding him. Other members of the Secretary’s family were dangerously wounded by the assassin while making his escape.
By the death of President Lincoln, the office of President has devolved, under the Constitution, upon you. The emergency of the government demands that you should immediately qualify, according to the requirements of the Constitution, and enter upon the duties of she President of the United States.
If you will please to make known your pleasure, such arrangements as you deem proper will be made.
Your obedient servants,
HUGH MCCULLOCH, Secretary of the Treasury. 
EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War. 
GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. 
WM. DENNISON, Postmaster General. 
J. B. USHER, Secretary of the Interior. 
JAMES SPEED, Attorney General. 
To ANDREW JOHNSON,
Vice President of the United States. 
Mr. Johnson remarked:— 
"Gentlemen,—I must be permitted to say that I have been almost overwhelmed by the announcement of the sad event which has so recently occurred. I feel in-competent to perform duties so important and responsible as those which have been so unexpectedly thrown upon me. As to an indication of any policy which may be pursued by me in the administration of the government, I have to say that it must be left for development. As the administration progresses, the message or declaration must be made by the acts as they transpire. The only assurance that I can now give of the future is reference to the past. The course which I have taken in the past in connection with this rebellion must be regarded as a guaranty of the future. My past public life, which has been long and laborious, as in I good conscience believe, has been founded upon a great principle of right, which lies at the basis of all things. The best energies of my life have been spent in endeavoring to establish and perpetuate the principles of free government, and I believe that the government, in passing through its present perils, will settle down upon the principles consonant with popular rights more permanent and enduring than heretofore.
I must be permitted to say, if I understand the feelings of my own heart, I have long labored to ameliorate and elevate the condition of the great mass of the American people. Toil and an honest advocacy of the great principles of free government have been my lot. The duties have been mine, the consequences are God’s. This has been the foundation of my political creed. I feel that in the end the government will triumph, and that these great principles will be permanently established.
In conclusion, gentlemen, let me say, that I want; your encouragement and countenance. I shall ask and rely upon you and others in carrying the government through its present perils. I feel, in making this request, that it will be heartily responded to by you and all other patriots and lovers of the rights and interests of a free people."
At the conclusion of the above remarks, the President received the kind wishes of the friends by whom he was surrounded. A few minutes were devoted to conversation, all being deeply impressed with the solemnity of the occasion, and the recent sad occurrence that caused the necessity for a speedy inauguration <illegible> the President. 
Mr. Johnson is in fine health, and has an earnest sense of the important trust confided to him.
William Hunter, chief clerk in the State Department, has been appointed Acting Secretary of State. 
A special meeting of the Cabinet was held at the Treasury Department at 10 o’clock this morning.
<c05>
PRESIDENT JOHNSON.
Andrew Johnson of Tennessee is now President <illegible> the United States. Like his immediate predecessor the native of a Slave State and of humble parentage, he has risen to high political station by the exhibition of those rare qualities which ordinary command success in a free country. He has been civil governor of a powerful State, a representative and a senator in Congress, and subsequently military governor of Tennessee by appointment of President Lincoln. In all these positions, he has carried himself with ability, and no word has ever been uttered against his personal integrity. We are in a position to state with certainty that he has had the confidence of the present administration during the war, and while numerous other military governors have so conducted their business as to disappoint the appointing power and to render their removal necessary, Mr. Johnson has always stood well, and has given entire satisfaction to those in authority, although his position was in some respects more difficult than that of any man in a similar official station. There can be no doubt that he is as able man, thoroughly loyal, fearless in the performance of duty, and standing high in the confidence of those who know him best.
We are not unmindful of the fact that Mr. Johnson has recently in a measure lost the. public confidence, and in common with the whole country, we deplored the exhibition of a weakness which was so injurious to our nation in the eyes of the civilized world. But there is good reason to believe that this was an exceptional instance of a failing which was regretted by none more than the Vice-President himself, and surely the history of memorable public services is not to be forgotten in the errors of a single day, nor a life long character for honorable and successful exertions to be fatally tarnished by the momentary fault of an hour.
Of one trait in the character of our President the country may be perfectly assured, and that is of his uncompromising loyalty and his unalterable determination to maintain the Union and to enforce the laws. Nor are his opinions of a recent date. A personal friend and great admirer of Andrew Jackson, he is of that old school of democratic politicians who believe in the Constitution and the Union, and in the use of all necessary means to protect and preserve them. In the last days of Mr. Buchanan’s wretched administration, he took a firm and manly stand for the right, and in the memorable debate of March 2, 1861, on the report of the peace conference, Mr. Johnson denounced with remarkable energy and marked ability the projected treason, for which he was set upon by the whole crew of disloyal men, led on by the senator from Oregon. "Mr. President," he exclaimed, in the course of this debate, "I was going on to remark, in reference to a general allusion to treason, that if individuals were pointed out to me who were engaged in nightly conspiracies, in secret conclaves, and issuing orders directing the capture of our forts, and the taking of our custom houses, I would show who were the traitors; and that being done, the persons pointed out to me as coming within the preview and scope of the provisions of the Constitution which I have read, were I the President of the United States, I would do as Thomas Jefferson did with Aaron Burr in 1806; I would have them arrested, and if convicted, within the meaning and scope of the Constitution, by the Eternal God, I would execute them. Sir, treason must be punished. Its enormity and the extent and depth of the offence must be made known. The time is not distant, if this government is preserved, its Constitution obeyed, and its laws executed in every department, when something of this kind must be done."
These words were spoken at a time when the men to whom the government had been entrusted by the people were falling away; when treason was openly avowed; in the midst of the traitor horde at Washington, and by one who was a native of a slave State, and bound by many personal considerations to go with these whom he so vehemently denounced. Such a man may be trusted in the present emergency; and it is the manifest duty of all good citizens to sustain him by their influence, and to bring to his support all those influences which may aid him in the execution of the high and important duties which he has now assumed.—Advertiser.
DEATH OF THE HON. NATHANIEL B. BORDEN.
Our entire community were saddened by the somewhat sudden death of one of our most distinguished citizens, the Hon. N. B. Borden, announced in the Daily News, extra, of yesterday. This event occurred about 10 minutes after 4 o’clock on Monday morning, 10th instant, at his residence, No. 40 Second street, in this city. Mr. Borden wanted but five days of being sixty-four years of age—having been born on the 15th day of April, A. D. 1801, in the house that formerly stood on the southerly side of Pocassett street, nearly opposite the Pocassett counting-room. The house in which he was born had a celebrity, from the fact o two English soldiers having been shot and killed at its eastern door, at the time when the British troops visited this place during the revolutionary war.
In a few years after his birth, with his parents, he removed to Nana Quaquet, in Tiverton, R. I., where the greater part of his youth was passed.
At the time of the erection of the Pocasset Mill, he had returned to Fall River, and took part with others in its building. So well satisfied were the owners of the establishment with his talents and good conduct, that on the 10th of August, 1821. he was chosen clerk of the corporation, and on the 15th of the same month he was chosen its Treasurer—though but a few months over 20 years of age. This responsible position he continued to hold until 1837, after he went to Congress, when he resigned it, and was succeeded by the late M. H. Ruggles. During the period before he went to Congress, he was once or more elected a Representative to the General Court. At the time of the agitation of Free Masonry and anti-Masonry, he took decided ground against secret institutions in a free country, and it has been stated, we presume correctly,. that he opened his house for an anti-Masonic meeting, when no other place could be obtained for the purpose. Identified with the manufacturing interests, from association and business, he acted in the earlier part of his adult life with the then National Republican party, until the time when the Masonic question became. a distinct issue, when, as heretofore stated, he was found opposed to the Masonic fraternity.
In the winter of 1833-4 the questions of the re-charter of the United. States Bank and the removal of the deposits were prominent subjects of public and private discussion, and Mr. Borden was found nearly in harmony with the Jackson party upon those questions. This led to his nomination to Congress in the Fall of 1834, and he was supported by both the anti-Masonic and Jacksonian parties for that position. But it was a spirited contest, and he was not elected until the third trial, when his choice was decided and triumphant. He was re elected in 1836, by an overwhelming vote in his favor, but was defeated in 1838, in consequence of some modification in his views relative to the United States Bank. He was succeeded by the Hon. Henry Williams, of Taunton. In 1840, his friends again reelected him to Congress, in which position he served one Congress, and declined a farther nomination for that position. He has at different times been both a State Senator and Representative.
As a legislator, he had extensive practical knowledge, a cool and deliberate judgment, and firm purpose to do what he believed right in itself, regardless of personal or political consequences to himself. In short, his convictions of duty were ever in advance of his real or supposed interests, that were merely personal to himself. He was for many years Town Clerk, Selectman, Highway Surveyor, and a sort of general guardian to look out for the interests and welfare of the town. He was likewise for several years President of the Fall River Railroad Company, doing its duties with efficiency and zeal. 
In 1856-7 he was chosen Mayor of the city, and during the trying times of the winter of ‘56-7, while the mills were stopped and hundreds were out of employment and destitute, the constant and untiring efforts of Mr. Borden shone with a benevolence rarely surpassed. He believed that starvation, and suffering for the want of food, should never be permitted in a Christian community having the means to alleviate them, and most notify did he fulfil his duty. There may have been cases of imposition, but they were rare, in comparison with the blessings that were afforded to many a famishing child and mother. If deeds of kindness and sympathy, coupled with well directed charity, embalm a man’s name in grateful remembrance, such will be the recollection of the name and character of Mr. Borden during this, trying time in our community. Mr. Borden has also been one of the Aldermen for several years, and was Alderman at the time of his death. It mattered little what party or combination was formed against his in his own ward, the people there knew him, and that was sufficient to secure his election. He was also President of the Fall River Union Bank and of the Fall River Savings Bank at the time of his death, and had been such for several years. Mr. Borden had been four times married, leaving four children, two sons and two daughters, with a widow, to lament his death. But they are not alone in bereavement. Besides numerous and extensive beloved relatives and friends to mourn his loss, the whole community realizes a bereavement.
He was among the early, and we may say, prominently among the earliest of the friends of the slave. He opened the Washington school-house in <illegible>, then in his individual property, in which to forms an anti-slavery society, at a time when it was fashionable to mob Abolitionists.. He has assisted many a fugitive, either directly or indirectly, on his road to freedom, and has with constant efforts aided the progress of humanity. In religious faith he was a Unitarian. and a firm believer in both the justice and goodness of the Deity. He uniformly maintained that the best preparation for a happy future life was to do well here. Cant and pretence had little influence with him. "The doers, of the word," and not the mere <illegible>, were, in his view, Christians. His illness was short, but at times
<c06>
distressing. He had been unwell for some days, apparently with a tendency to ossification of the heart. He rode out on Thursday last. But his disease finally terminated in erysipelas. He was perfectly aware of his approaching dissolution, and with the exception of his bodily suffering, which at times was quite intense, he met its coming with the same <illegible> trust that had characterized him through life.
It is pleasant, in many points of view, to contemplate the character of Mr. Borden. With a moral integrity unimpeachable and unimpeachable, a large heart and a generous sympathy, he has passed through life, shedding light and charity to his fellow man, wherever found, without regard to the color of his skin, the place of his birth, or the nature of his creed. To oppression he was an enemy; to the oppressed a friend. This community has but few such to lose. Let us reverently how to the dispensation which has created our bereavement, and profit by the worthy example of him whom we deplore.-Fall River News.
ADVANCE OF SHERMAN.-EVACUATION OF RALEIGH BY JOHNSTON.
NEW YORK, April 15. The Herald’s Goldsboro’ correspondence says Sherman’s army commenced its advance on the 9th, moving in three columns under Howard, Slocum and Scofield.
During the rejoicings over the news from Richmond, Gen. Sherman was called out by his troops, and he addressed a few words to them, saying he was informed Richmond had been captured and Lee was flying in dismay. He said Grant wrote him he was pursuing Lee and he hoped he (Sherman) would press Johnston. "I think we will do it," said Sherman. The soldiers cried, "We will." "we will." Sherman told his soldiers that he did not mean to let Johnston have any rest. 
Johnston has evacuated Raleigh, moving west, and leaving the town in possession of Hampton’s Cavalry. On the evening of the 5th a small force of Howard’s Mounted Infantry were attacked by some rebel Cavalry, who were, however, soon dispersed with a loss of 100 men and 2 pieces of Artillery. 
The Herald’s correspondence says an expedition lately went up the Chowan river and captured Winton and Mumfreesboro’. The ram which the rebels were building at Halifax, N. C., has been destroyed. The ram Albemarie has been raised by our men, and found to be not seriously injured. 
The Herald’s Goldsboro’ correspondence has a report from Raleigh saying Governor Vance will call the North Carolina Legislature together to repeal the secession ordinance.
The World’s Goldsboro’ correspondence of the 10th says the Raleigh Confederate of the 5th states that the city was sacked and mobbed by the lower classes. The 16th Virginia Reserves were left to protect the people, but were unable to do so. The mob took possession of some of the larger warehouses and stores and robbed them.

THE ARREST OF SECRETARY SEWARD’S ASSASSIN.
Late on Tuesday night, a man disguised as a laborer and carrying a pick on his shoulder approached the house occupied by the family of Surratt in Washington. He was about to enter when arrested. Upon washing the dirt from his face, he was quite a different looking person from what his appearance indicated. He called himself Payne, and exhibited not a little embarrassment. He managed to ask in agitated tones why he was arrested. The colored servant of Secretary Seward was sent for, when he immediately exclaimed., "That’s the man! I know him by his general appearance and his mouth." The servant then said there could be no mistake. The man has been placed in safe custody, and is to be seen by Miss Fanny Seward for further identification. 

ARREST OF A PITTSBURG MRRCHANT AS ACCESSORY TO THE MURDER OF PRESIDENTOF LINCOLN. About eleven o’clock Saturday forenoon, while in the saloon No. 41 Congress street, J. H. Borland, a boot and shoe dealer on Market street, Pittsburg, made the assertion that eight or ten days since he heard John. Wilkes Booth declare that he would put the President through within eight days. Borland was under the influence of liquor at the time of making the assertion, and continuing to repeat it, other persons who were present informed the police of the fact, and detective Curtis with officer Trask of the Second Police visited the saloon and arrested the man and committed him to the Toombs on the charge of being accessory to the murder of President Lincoln. 
Borland repeated his assertion to the officers after his arrest, and added that Booth also said, "I am insane on the subject of putting the President through, and will do it within eight days."
Borland was in this city for the purpose of purchasing goods, and stopped at the Parker House. He desired that the fact of his arrest might be telegraphed to Pittsburgh 

RIOTOUS PROCEEDINGS IN FALL RIVER. A VENOMOUS COPPERHEAD MOBBED. Fall River, Mass. April 15, On receipt of the melancholy news of the assassination of the President this morning, and while a large crowd of citizens were gathered around the bulletin boards reading the dispatches and giving expression to their deep and most heartfelt sorrow, a notorious Copperhead secesh sympathizer and liquor dealer, named Leonard Wood, was heard to declare that it was the best news he had heard for forty years. He had no sooner uttered this atrocious sentiment than he was seized by the indignant bystanders, struck, booted about the streets, and compelled to go into a store and procure an American flag, unfurl and salute it with three cheers. He then rushed to his store and locked himself in, but the crowd surrounded his place and were making preparations to break in, when the Mayor and City Marshal appeared and escorted him to the lock up, where he is now confined. The crowd then returned to his store, stove in the windows and smashed things generally. They then visited other Copperheads, compelling them to show the American flag. 

A FRIEND OF THE ASSASSINS TARRED AND FEATHERED AT SWAMPSCOTT. On the reception of the news at Swampscott, one George Stone said in public it was the best news we had received for four years, and gave three cheers. The citizens and soldiers of Swampscott took him by force, tarred and feathered him, dragged him through the town in a boat, compelling him to hold the American flag over his head, and upon promising to buy an American flag and keep it up during the mourning for the President at half-mast, he was then set at liberty. 
PUNISHMENT OF SECESSINISTS. George Wells, John Gallagher, Wm. Fancing, and Peter Britton, the latter the Treasurer of a theatre, were, in New York, on the 17th, sentenced to six months in the Penitentiary, for uttering treasonable sentiments. 
A number of persons in that city who have presumed to express satisfaction at the assassination of President Lincoln have been roughly handled. 
In Trenton, N. J., a rebel sympathizer was mobbed on the morning of the fifteenth, and in various other places, persons who have had the audacity to express their satisfaction at the diabolical act of Booth and his associate ruffian, have been made to feel the heavy hand of popular indignation. 
CAPTURE OF SALISBURY. N. C., Gen. Stoneman telegraphs to Maj. Gen. Thomas, from Slaterville, N. C., April 18, that he has captured Salisbury, with some 1300 prisoners, and 14 pieces of artillery. On his route there, and beyond, he destroyed numerous bridges and captured or destroyed an immense amount of public property, comprising 7000 bales of cotton, four large magazines containing 10,000 stand of small arms and accoutrements, 1,00,000 rounds of small ammunition, 1000 rounds of fixed artillery ammunition and 7000 pounds of powder, 35, 000 bushels of corn, 50,000 bushels of wheat, 160,000 pounds of cured bacon, 100,000 suite of grey uniforms and clothing, 250,000 army blankets, 20, 000 pounds of harness leather, 100,000 pounds of saltpeter, also a very large amount of sugar, salt, rice and other stores, and medical supplies valued by the Medical Directors at $100,000 in gold. 
CAPTURE OF MOBILE AND SELMA. Intelligence has been received of the capture of Mobile on the 12th inst. General Granger’s forces occupy the city. Selma has also been taken by our troops, under Maj. Gen. Geo. H. Thomas.
DEATH OF RICHAND COBDEN Europe has lost one of her great men, and the United States one of her best foreign friends, by the death of Richard Cobden, which occurred at London on Sunday, the 2d of April. Mr. Cobden had been for several years in feeble health, and had but recently ventured to come to London, in order to take part in the debate on Canadian affairs. His intimate friend, John Bright, was with him in his dying hours. 
HOMESTEAD FOR JOHN BROWN’S FAMILY. A movement has been started in California for a subscription to purchase a homestead for the family of John Brown, who are residing at Red Bluff. 
<ILLEGIBLE> It is announced that the rebel Gen. Johnstone has capitulated to Sherman, on the same terms that were granted to Lee by Gen. Grant. 

INTERESTING <illegible>. A meeting will be held at Tremont Temple on SUNDAY EVENING next, April 23d. Addresses will be delivered by <illegible>., Rev. J. M. MANNING, and others, WM.WELLS BROWN will give a narrative of his life at the South, and his thrilling <illegible> to commence at 7 1-2 o’clock. Admission, 20 cents.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OLD TIMES AND NEW.
“Twas in my easy chair, at home,
About a week ago,
I sat, and puffed my light cigar,
As usual, you must know.(1)
I thought upon the Pilgrim flock
Whose luck it was to land
Upon almost the only rock
Among the Plymouth sand.
In my mind’s eye I saw them leave 
Their weather-beaten bark—
Before them spread the wintry wilds,
Behind rolled ocean dark.
Alone that little handful stood,
While savage fees lurked nigh;
Their creed and watchword, “Trust in God,
And keep your powder dry.”
Imagination's pencil then
That first stern winter painted,
When more than half their number died,
And stoutest spirits fainted.
A tear unbidden filled one eye,
My smoke had filled the other;
One sees strange sights at such a time,
Which quite their senses bother.
I knew I was alone, but, lo!
Let him who will deride me—
I looked, and, drawing up a chair,
Down sat a man beside me.
His dress was ancient, and his air
Was somewhat strange and foreign;
He civilly returned my stare,
And said, “I’m Richard Warren.”
You’ll find my name among the lists 
Of heroes, sages, martyrs,
Who in the Mayflower’s cabin signed
The first New England charter.
I could some curious facts impart,
Besides some wise suggestions;
But, then, I’m bound on seeing sights,
And running o'er with questions.
“Ask on,” said I—“I’ll do my best
To give you information,
Whether of private men you ask,
Or our renowned nation.”
He said, “First tell me what is that
In you compartment narrow,
Which seems to dry my eye-balls up, 
And scorch my very marrow ?”
His finger pointed to the grate—
Said I, “That's Lehigh coal,
Dug from the earth.” He shook his head:
“It is, upon my soul.”
I then took up a bit of stick,
One end as black as night,
And drew it quick across the earth,
When, lo! a sudden light!
My friend drew back, uprolled his eyes,
And strove his breath to catch:
“What necromancy’s that,” said he:
Quoth I, “A friction match.”
Upon a pipe just overhead,
I turned a little screw,
When forth, with instantaneous flight,
Three streams of lightning flew.
Uprose my friend—“Now, Heaven me save!”
Aloud he shouted then,
“Is that hell-fire!” “Tis gas,” said I,
“We call it hydrogen.”
The next we strayed into the fields—
A train came thundering by,
Drawn by the snorting iron steed,
Swifter than eagles fly.
Rumbled the wheels, the whistle shrieked,
Far streamed the smoky cloud;
Echoed the hills, the valley shook,
The flying forest bowed.
Down on his knees. with hands upraised,
In worship Warren fell;
“Great is the Lord our God,” cried he,
He doeth all things well.
“I've seen his chariots of fire—
His horsemen, too, thereof:
O, may I ne’er provoke his ire,
Nor at his threatenings scoff!”
“Rise up, my friend, rise up,” said I,
“your terrof’s all in vain;
That is no chariot from the skies—
It’s the New York mail train.”
We stood within a chamber small—
Men came the news to know,
From Worcester, Springfield, and New York,
Texas, and Mexico.
It came, it went—silent but sure:
He stared—smiled—burst out laughing!
“What witchcraft strange is that?” said he:
“That's magnetic telegraphing.”
The next we stepped into the street—
Said Warren, “What is that
That moves along across the street,
As softly as a cat?
“I mean that thing upon two legs,
With feathers on its head—
A monstrous lump below the waist,
Large as a feather bed.
“It has the gift of speech, I hear;
But, sure, it can't be human!”
“My amiable friend,” said I,
“That ‘s what we call a woman.”
“Eternal powers! it cannot be!”
Sighed he, with voice that faltered;
“I loved the women in my day—
But, O, they’re strangely altered!”
I next showed him a new machine
For turning eggs to chickens—
A labor-saving henery,
That beats the very dickens!
Thereat he strongly grasped my hand,
And said, “Tis plain to see
This world is so transmogrified
‘Twill never do for me!
“Your telegraph, your railroad cars,
Your gas lights, friction matches,
Your hump-back women, rocks for coal,
Your thing which chickens hatches-
Have turned the world so upside down,
No peace is left within it”:
So, turning round upon his heel,
He vanished in a minute.
Forthwith I quickly grasped my pen,
Wrote down what I had heard;
And here, dressed up in doggerel rhyme,
You have it, word for word.
(1) A habit “more honored in the breach than in the observance.”-[Ed. Lib.
MOTHER.
No earthly friend can fill a mother's place,
When the dear one is with us here no more;
No smiles no sweet, so loving to the core,
As these which beamed upon that faithful face,
Reflecting every meek, angelic grace;
No words so kind, so potent to restore
Joy to the soul, where sadness ruled before,
As hers, who held us in her warm embrace. 
But when the vesture visible to right
Has worn away, to set the spirit free,
Then we behold those looks of love and light
In fadeless lines impressed on memory;
And feel that but one mother o’er is given 
To guard us here below, or guide the way to heaven.
<c02>
The liberator.

THE DUTY OF ABOLITONISTS..
CENTRAL CITY, (Col. Terr.) March 27, 1865. FRIEND GARRISON:
I notice in the Liberator considerable discussion respecting the duty of abolitionists, now that slavery is destroyed. The question it asked whether the Anti Slavery Associations shall be dissolved or not. One writer recommends the formation of a Society for the improvement of the condition of the Indians.
Now, without wishing to dictate to any one, I would simply suggest, that if our action in behalf of the stares sprang from a desire to benefit that class of our fellow-men, rather than from a poetical hatred of slavery, we need not long remain in ignorance respecting our duty. As when we commenced our labors in this cause, so now, “the harvest is plenteous, but the laborers are few.” Abolitionists, I take it, are men of common sense, as well as philanthropists; and I, for one, can see but little common sense exhibited in abandoning all efforts in behalf of the freed slaves, merely because they are free. Let not our enemies throw it in our teeth, that, having succeeded in emancipating the slaves, we are now intending to leave them to take care of themselves as they best can. We know what human nature is, and we already see its selfish workings in the attempts now being made in various (formerly) slaveholding States to form combinations to keep the price of labor down, and to employ negroes only under certain restrictions. Witness Maryland, where the planters have agreed to pay the former slaves’ only $120 a year and board.
Now, what we want is, an organization similar to the Anti-Slavery Associations, whose object shall be to elevate the freed slave, and protect him in all his rights. I suggest the immediate calling of a Convention of all the friends of the colored man, to take into solemn consideration his interests; and to devise ways and means to promote them. I would recommend, then, the formation of a Society to carry out the plans and ideas proposed at this Convention. Let this Society not be composed of speculators, or Government officers, but of men devoted to philanthropy, whose pledged object shall be, not to make money out of the labor of the negroes, but simply to elevate them by every possible means. I would suggest that this Society be called “The American Society for the Elevation of the Colored Race” and that it hold itself aloof from all plans that shall bring reproach upon its object, such as purchasing land and employing negroes, and confine itself to preaching the truth respecting the object contemplated—just as the A. S. Society has always done. Then let it employ lecturers, and endeavor to revolutionize public sentiment, North and South, respecting the three great rights of the colored man, viz., the right to the soil, the right of education, and the right of citizenship. I do not see that this would conflict, at all, with any business associations now in existence, whose object is to aid, temporarily, the freedman. This Association would be a permanent affair, and would enlarge its sphere of usefulness until the colored man, in every State of the Union, enjoyed precisely the same rights as the white man. This would be a Herculean task, I admit; but are we not equal to its accomplishment? Let us undertake it, at any rate.
For one, having sacrificed a great portion of my life in efforts to remove the curse of slavery, I still by no means feel like abandoning the cause. On the contrary, having aided somewhat in lifting from the black man the heavy weight of slavery that was crushing him to the earth, I now feel like taking him by the hand, and gently lifting him up, and leading him along into those “green pastures and by the side of those still waters,” where he will find rest to his soul. In other words, I contemplate going South as soon as I can make the necessary arrangements, and doing what I can to lead the freed slave into the paths of physical, mental and moral improvement, by furnishing him with remunerative employment, providing for his education and instruction, and endeavoring to create a public sentiment in his behalf that shall result in his complete enfranchisement I wish others to do the same, North as well as South, and I hope our old corps of Anti-Slavery veterans in the lecturing field will buckle on anew the harness, and work for the above-mentioned object. I shall be in Boston, probably, early in July, and I should be pleased to meet with any of my old Anti-Slavery friends who feel like continuing their labors for the slave, as I trust they all do; and see if we cannot combine and go South in sufficient numbers to correct public sentiment there, and introduce real freedom for the black—the same as we all went to Kansas in 1854. That was regarded by many as a mad scheme, but behold its results—the abolition of slavery! So, if we go South in sufficient numbers, we can root out the secession spirit, and gradually introduce into that benighted region the glorious religion of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, which consists, mainly, in doing good to our fellow-men.
If any individuals feel moved to join me in this expedition, let them leave word at the Anti-Slavery Office, and I will correspond with or call upon them. I propose going South in July, on an exploring tour, visiting Eastern Virginia, North and South Carolina, and perhaps Georgia, and then returning North, and reporting progress. Who will join me in this expedition?
Yours, for the cause, C. STEARNS.
REPLY TO E. H. H.
FRIEND GARRISON—In the Liberator of the 17th ult., there is an article over the signature of E. H. H., in which the following statement is made:- “The North, as ministers of aggressive subjugation, come to be entirely in the wrong, and the South, as exponents of self-government and the inalienable privilege of revolution, entirely in the right.” I feel surprised that such a sentiment should be advanced by a professed Non-Resistant. That the North is wrong from our stand-point of view, I admit; but that does not justify the South for coming out in murderous rebellion against the Government they had voluntarily sustained, and sworn to protect. Our fathers had the theory of a righteous government when they declared that “all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;” and that all true governments rest upon the consent of the governed. But they had not faith enough to trust in almighty principles for protection, but established a government to be protected by the sword; and every one who votes to elect officers to manage public affairs pledges his life, property and sacred honor to sustain the government, as much as the signers of the Declaration of Independence did. When the people out grow their old institutions, the Constitution provides a way for its own amendment. The great mass of the people religiously believe that it is not only their right, bat their duty, to defend themselves with some visible weapons; therefore they have given Government a power which we believe belongs alone to the invisible Creator. They have clothed the Executive with power above all other gods to see that the laws are duly executed; and its officers are religiously sworn to maintain the Government, so long as they have the power to do it. Therefore, this rebellion is a death-struggle between Freedom and Slavery, and one or the other most yield. We who believe that moral power alone has a right to rule mast fed most attached to those who are doing most to sustain moral power. The North is now exerting a moral power over the South, which she could not till the sword had opened away for it to work. When the lower classes are educated so as to see that a righteous government is for their protection, and we who do not believe that the present one is wholly right shall make our voices to be heard in pointing out where we think it to be wrong, and cheerfully obeying that which is right, I think we shall not need any swords or guns to protect it
THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, (Mass.) April 2, 1864.
<c03>
MATTERS IN RICHMOND.

RICHMOND, April 5.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The Richmond Whig was issued yesterday afternoon as a loyal paper. The editor and all who have heretofore controlled its columns fled on Sunday night. The proprietor and one attache of the editorial corps remain. They have taken the oath of allegiance. The issue of last night says: “The Whig will be issued, hereafter as a Union paper. The sentiment of attachment to our whole country, which formerly characterized it as a journal, will again find expression in its columns, and whatever influence it may have for the restoration of the national authority will be exerted.”
The Sentinel office was not destroyed. I saw the proprietor to-day. He formerly did the government printing. We had a pleasant interview.
“I was sorry,” he said, “to see the Start and Stripes torn down in 1861. It is the prettiest flag in the world; but I shed tears when I saw it raised over the Capitol of Virginia on Sunday morning.
“Why so?” I asked.
“Because it was done without the consent of the State of Virginia.”
“Then you still cling to the idea that a State is more than the nation.”
“Yes. State rights above everything.”
“Don’t you think the war is almost over—that it is useless for Lee to contend further?”
“No. He will fight another battle, and he will win. He can fight for twenty-five years in the mountains.”
“Do you think that men can live in the mountains?”
“Yes; on roots and herbs, and fight you till you are weary of it, and whip you out.”
I give you the conversation as near as I can recall it, that you may understand the insanity of the secessionists. They have no conception of the great principles which underlie this mighty struggle. They are clinging to the abstractions of the past—State rights, State sovereignty—and are impelled by State pride. They talk of the proud Old Dominion, the State which has raised up Presidents—of their ancestors and all that—living in the past, without comprehending the revolution of the present, which has precipitated them from power, and which has brought liberty to a despised race.
A friend called upon one of the most aristocratic families of the place last night—a family which has had a great name. He found them exceedingly bitter and defiant. They never would yield. Nonever. They would fight through a generation, and defeat us at last.
There are many people in Richmond who are glad to see the old flag here once more; they love the Union, they say, but cannot bear to “see a nigger parading about the streets.” And this brings me to the subject of
NEGRO TROOPS.
I have taken especial pains to ascertain the truth about negro troops in the rebel service. A great meeting was held in the African church some weeks ago to fire the African heart The church was crowded with colored people. The newspapers since then have made frequent mention of the volunteering of colored men, and the public have been made to believe that several regiments were being enlisted. I have the testimony of a dozen men, white and colored, that the entire number did not exceed fifty! and these were boys, who were ready to parade the streets, and live on Confederate rations, but who bad no idea of fighting. “Dey was mostly poor Souf Carolina darkies—poor heathen fellers, who didn’t know no better,” said one negro, in response to my inquiries.
“Would you have fought against the Yankees?” I asked of a colored man dressed in butternut colored clothes, who stood near by.
“No, sir. Dey might have shot me through de body wid ninety thousand balls, before I would have fired a gun at my friends.”
“Then you look upon us as your friends?”
“Yes, sir. I’ve prayed for you to come to get here for a long while, and do you think that I would have prayed one way and fit de other?”
He said it with spirit, as if a little hurt that I should question his sincerity.
“I'll tell you, Massa, what I would have done,” said another, taking off his hat and bowing; “I would have taken de gun and when I cotched a chance, I'd a shooted it at de rebs and den run for de Yankees.”
This brought a general explosion from the crowd, and arrested the attention of some white men passing.
I look back with pleasure to the scene. It was in the street directly west of the Capitol—the dilapidated building with decaying walls and broken windows. I had but to raise my eyes to see the Stars and Stripes waving in the evening breeze. A few paces distant were the ruins of the rebel war department, from whence were issued the orders to starve our prisoners at Belle Isle, Salisbury and Anderson ville. Near by were the walls of Dr. Reed's church, where a specious gospel bad been preached. A stone’s throw in the other direction was Dr. Hayes’s church, where Jeff. Davis’s heart quailed on Sunday last. The street was full of people. I was a stranger to them all, but I ventured to make this inquiry:
“Did you ever see an abolitionist?”
“No, massa, I reckon I neber did,” was the reply
“What kind of people do you think they are?”
“Well, massa, I specs dey is a good kind of people.”
“Why do you think so?”
“Case when I hear bad white folks swearing and cussing about ‘em, I reckon dar must be something good about ‘em.”
“Well, my friends, I am an abolitionist; I believe that one man is just as good as another if he behaves as well, and that I have no more right to make a slave of you than you have of me.”
Every hat came off in an instant, and a dozen hands were reached out toward me, and I heard from a dozen tongues a hearty “God bless you, sir!”
There is freedom of speech in Richmond now. White men heard me and scowled. Last Sunday, had I uttered those words, I should have dangled upon the nearest lamp poet in five minutes; but today, those men who stretched out their hands to me would have given the last drop of their blood before they would have seen a hair of my head injured, after that declaration.
BELLIGERENT RIGHTS.
The Philadelphia Press has a correspondent in the field who writes excellent letters—Mr. J. Morris Chester. He is a tall, stout, muscular, yet unassuming man. He is a black
man. Entering the hall of Congress, he sat down in the Speaker's chair and commenced writing on the Speaker’s desk!: A rebel officer who had been paroled entered the room.
“Come out of there, you black cuss,” shouted the officer, his teeth set and 'his fist clenched.
Mr. Chester raised his eyes, calmly surveyed the officer, and went on with his writing.
“Get out of there or I’ll knock your brains out,” the officer bellowed, pouring out a torrent of oaths.
Mr. Chester did not move. The officer rushed up the steps to seize him by the collar, but found himself tumbling heels over head over chairs and benches, knocked down by one well planted blow between his eyes, which Mr. Chester had given.
Mr. Chester said not a word, but sat down and went to writing as if nothing had happened. The officer sprang to his feet and called upon Capt. Hutchins of Gen. Devens’s staff for a sword.
“I’ll cut the fellow's heart out,” said he.
“O, no; I guess not I won’t let you have my sword for any such purpose. If you want to fight Mr. Chester, I will dear a space here and see that you have fair play, but let me tell you that you will get a tremendous thrashing,” said Captain Hutchins.
The officer left the hall in disgust, while Mr. Chester continued his writing. “I thought I would exercise my rights as a belligerent,” was his remark as he told me the story, which is fully confirmed by Captain Hutchins.
This happened in Richmond, in the hall of Congress, where society, politicians, ministers, women and all, believe that colored men have no rights which a white man is bound to respect. What sacrilege it was for Mr. Chester to enter the Capitol—the hall—and sit in that chair where Jeff. Davis sat when he visited the Senate! The incident shows how fast and bow fat we have advanced toward universal human brotherhood during the four years, of the war.
POETIC JUSTICE.
The fire which licked oat with forked tongues of flame the heart of Richmond on Monday last, which surged from James river to the Capitol, from Belle
<c04>
Isle to Rockets, which made the place a scene of indescribable desolation, left the Libby Prison unharmed, though nearly all the other buildings around it were burned.
Libby Prison! What horrors have been witnessed within its walls! What sighs and groans! What prayers and team! What dying out of hope and wasting away of body and mind! What nights of darkness settling on human souls! Its door an entrance to a living charnel house—its iron-grated windows the loop-holes of hell! Death was the warden. Whoever entered there stood on the verge of the grave and met death face to face.
This morning, accompanied by friends, I visited the prison, which now contains about five hundred rebel prisoners. They were peeping out from the grated windows—looking intently and sadly upon the scene of desolation around them—a city in ruins —still smoldering and smoking. A large number were upon the roof, breathing the fresh air, and gazing upon the fields beyond the James, green now with the verdure of spring. Union prisoners never had such liberty Whoever approached the window bars or laid his hand upon them, fell dead the next instant.
There was a crowd of women with pails and buckets at the windows, giving the prisoners provisions, and talking freely with their friends, who came not only to the windows but to the door, where the good-natured sentinel allowed conversation without restriction.
The officer in charge conducted our party through the wards. The crowd of filthy wretches gazed upon us with curiosity, wondering what was the purpose of our visit. The air was fetid with vile odors, arising from the unwashed crowd—from old rags and filthy garments—from choked-up urinals and sinks—from puddles of filthy water which oozed from the leaky conductors, dripped through the floor, ran down the walls, sickening to all the senses. From this prison, on Sunday last, fifteen hundred men were hurried to the flag of truce boat, that they might be exchanged before falling into our hands. Many thousands of men have lived there month after month, wasting away, starving, dying of fever, of consumption, of all diseases known to medical science—from insanity, despair and idiocy—having no communication with the outer world, no food from friends, no sympathy, no compassion—denied everything, starved to death, tortured to death by rigor of imprisonment; by men whose hearts grew harder from day to day till they became fiends in human form.
“Please give me a bit of bread, aunty, I am starving,” was the plea made one day by a young soldier who saw a negro woman passing the window. He thrust his emaciated hand between the bars and clutched the bit which the kind-hearted colored woman cheerfully gave him; but before it had passed between his teeth, he saw the brains of his benefactress spattered upon the sidewalk by the sentinel!
Where on the page of history is there such a damning record of crime as that written in Richmond—at Libby, at Belle Isle, at Castle Thunder, the jail and the penitentiary? Andersonville, and Salisbury, and Millen are parts of the Richmond record of crime— for all orders were issued from here.
At the jail, Major Stevens, the Provost Marshal, found a crowd of starving wretches—men, women and children, blacks and whites, incarcerated for petty crimes.
“What are you in here for? ” he asked of a little girl.
“For stealing a piece of bread, sir. I was hungry and my mother was starving,” she replied, the tears starting down her cheeks.
Major Stevens ascertained that nearly all were imprisoned for petty offences—driven to crime by necessity—and opening the door, told them to go where they pleased.
Barbarity and inhumanity are characteristics of slavery—which have shown themselves on the plantation, in the slave-mart and in the prison—to slaves and prisoners of war alike.
“I intend to treat the prisoners well. They have murdered our men, but I shall not retaliate except with kindness,” said the officer who conducted us.
The prisoners were playing cards, cooking their breakfasts, baking hoe cakes by the fire.
It was gratifying to see the flag of the Union floating over that accursed prison-house, with the soldiers of the Union pacing their beats before the doors—to see the motley crowd peeping from the iron-barred windows. It was not a feeling of resentment, but of satisfaction that at last there was an end to human torture on that spot; that it should be no longer the prison-house of despair.
How strange the action of the rebel leaders! They burned the tobacco warehouses, that the tobacco might not fall into our hands; they destroyed the city wantonly, reducing their best friends from affluence to poverty, and yet suffered Libby prison to remain a monument of their infamy! They were anxious that it should not be destroyed, as I am informed by Capt. Stewart, who has been the United States agent for the distribution of supplies at this place.
Like the Bridge of Sighs, it will be a memorable place—forever an object of interest, waking barrowing feelings and melancholy thoughts in the minds of all visitors to Richmond. The great lock of its largest door has passed into the hands of Senator Sumner, who arrived here to-day, accompanying Mr. Lincoln.
Charles Sumner in Richmond! The bated, despised, maltreated fanatic of other days, whose life was sought, who was received only with haughty, insolent contempt from his compeers in the Senate of the United States, walked the streets of Richmond to-day, entered the Capitol of the Confederacy, while ex-Senators Mason, Hunter, Breckinridge, Benjamin and Davis are fugitives. It is not Senator Sumner who has triumphed. Men are God’s instruments. Justice and righteousness have won the mighty victory. CARLETON.

WENDELL PHILLIPS.
We had hoped that Mr. Phillips would overstep the limits of his subject last Wednesday evening, and give us for a peroration, at least, some of his characteristic utterances, some genuine Phillip-ics. And he would have done so, had the Committee signified their willingness that he should. But they had assigned to him his old lecture on “The Lost Arts,” and mindful of lecture-room courtesies, he stuck to this text. In opening, however, he said that he would rather talk of the art of to-day, of justice and liberty, than of ancient arts. The lecture has been delivered in Utica once before, is a dozen or more years old, has been printed in many newspapers, and therefore a report of it will not be expected. Beautiful and golden as the speaker’s oratory was, the audience, we think, were not satisfied. Old, worn-out lectures are not what popular audiences want. They want the orator’s latest research and thought, lit up by the light of the latest events; and they want something characteristic as well as new. The true theory of a lecture course is a variety of able lecturers, each declaring his own peculiar views and feelings in his own way. Thus we get at the fresh thought of the country—the latest ideas and the latest facts. If a man (as Wendell Phillips ) who has devoted his life to the negro question is to lecture, by all means let him lecture on the negro or some subject akin to that. If Jeff. Davis is to lecture, let the subject be State Sovereignty, or Treason Defended, or the like. In short, no lecturer should be so hampered that he will try to exclude himself from what he says, and BO worn-out lecture should be assigned to him from any fear that be will express peculiar and unpalatable ideas. These are precisely what should be expressed, if we would carry out the true intent of the lecture system, and experience its full benefits When Wendell Phillips comes again, we hope he will be allowed to select his own theme, and say what he pleases.— Utica Herald.

THE USES OF LABOR.
It has been written, “An endless significance lies in Work;” a man perfects himself by working. Foul jungles are cleared away; fair seeds rise in stead, and stately cities; and, withal, the man himself first ceases to be a jungle and a fair unwholesome desert thereby. Condsider how the meanest sort of Labor, the whole soul of a man is composed into a kind of real harmony, the instant he sets himself to work! Doubt, Desire, Sorrow, Remorse, Indignation, Despair itself—all these like hell-dogs, lie beleagureing the poor soul of the poor day-worker, as of every man—but he bends himself with free valor against his task, and all these are stilled, all these shrink murmuring far off into their caves. The man is now a man. The blessed glow of Labor is in him—is it not as purifying fire, wherein all poison is burnt up, and of sour smoke itself there is made bright blessed flame,-Carlyle.
<c05>
THE POPE’S ENCYCLICAL.

The following comments on “the Pope’s Encyclical,” from the editor of the New York Independent, Feb. 2d, are worthy of attention:-
PICKING A BONE WITH THE POPE.
“Already for a fortnight has the Pope’s Encyclical been before the American people; and, as an encyclical presupposes a great circle, we presume it has by this time completed the circuit of the globe—leaving a streak of darkness round the earth. Of all the public papers of the present age, this manifesto is the most astounding and pitiful—exhibiting the successor of St. Peter in the act of suspending the rights of mankind, and dictating the stoppage of the world. By the common order of life and death, men’s bodies die and their souls yet live; but here is a patriarch whose body is alive in the nineteenth century, yet whose spirit is dead and sepulchred in the twelfth.
The Encyclical, though European in origin, is American in application, inasmuch as, in addressing Catholics throughout the world, it addresses a considerable class of the American people. What, therefore, does it say to all such?
‘We have condemned,’ says the spiritual father, the principal errors of our sad age.’ And what, in the Pope’s opinion, are these errors” Is slavery mentioned among them? No. Treason? No. Drunkenness? No. Lust? No. Lying? No. Theft? No. Pride? No. Scandal? No. The common selfishness of the human heart? No None. of these! What, then, are these guilty things? They are ‘Progress, LIBERALISM, and MODERN CIVILIZATION!’ These are the blots on the nineteenth century, which His Holiness, with encyclical vinegar and sand, seeks to scour and cleanse! Nevertheless, we fancy that be aged Pontiffs, rubbing against ‘progress, Liberalism, and modern civilization,’ will himself be soonest rubbed out!
Why has be written this letter? He answers: —‘To destroy new opinions.’ One of them, so erroneous as to be ‘hurtful to the safety of the Catholic Church and of souls,’ is—what? Nothing less than. the long fought-for and hard-won doctrine that ‘Liberty of conscience and of worship is the right of every man.’ This the Pope repudiates ‘This,’ he says,’ was termed delirium by our predecessor Gregory XVI., of excellent memory.’ Now, if the Pope regards this doctrine as a delirium, how are Pope-fearing Catholics in this country to regard it.? They are in duty bound to hold the same opinion. What follows? ‘Liberty of conscience and of worship’ is a fundamental law of this Republic. The lawgiver of the Catholic Church denounces this as madness. American Catholics, therefore, are enjoined to withhold their assent, and to repudiate the doctrine. What is the practical result? For instance, St. Louis is a Catholic city. Within its borders, a convention, engaged in forming a new constitution, a few days ago decreed that this very doctrine of liberty of conscience should forever form a vital part of the organic law of Missouri. But, in view of the warnings of this Encyclical, no Romanist of that city or State can now swear allegiance to that constitution without heresy against the Church of Rome. The Encyclical summons the Catholics of that State to arm themselves against the new constitution as against the plague. The Roman Pontiff, if obeyed, will make American Catholics traitors to their country—enemies plotting the overthrow of the laws. And this Encyclical is, therefore, a covert declaration of war against the American Republic.
Is this pressing our point too far? Not at all. Let us quote other words from the letter. Its apostolic writer denounces the heresy that ‘ Protestantism is another form of the same true religion in which it is possible to be equally pleasing to God as in the Catholic Church.’ Now we have no quarrel with the Pope for denying this doctrine; we expect every other Catholic to deny it. Our quarrel with the Pope, and with the followers of the Encyclical, is for denying that ‘every man is FREE to embrace and profess the religion he shall believe to be true.’ Now, the Pope’s argument is not ‘The Catholic religion is the true one; therefore let men be persuaded to adopt it’—(which he could not be blamed for maintaining); but be says, ‘as the Catholic religion is the true one, therefore let men be forced to adopt it.’ This commands American Catholics to say to American Protestants, ‘you have no right to your Protestantism, and we will force you to bend under the yoke of Rome.’ This, we repeat, is a pontifical declaration of war against the American people.
Do not Catholics know that, in a Protestant country like ours, they are indebted for their own self-preservation to this very doctrine of religious toleration which the Pope names insanity? Or are our Catholic fellow-citizens, while now in a minority, simply acquiescent, for the time being, in the Protestant doctrine of liberty of conscience, inasmuch as it works ‘temporarily to their own advantage, while they hold themselves ready at any opportune moment to carry out the revolutionary instructions of the Pope, and to destroy the foundation of American religious, and therefore of civil, liberty? Is the Pope a garrulous old man who has let out the secrets of the Vatican before the ripe time? If so, let the American people be on their guard—forewarned and forearmed!
The Pontiff shoots another arrow from his bow. He denounces ‘ popular schools, open without distinction to all the children of the people, freed from ecclesiastical authority and interference.’ Is not this an exact description of our Common School system? Striking at this system, is he not seeking to destroy another of the foundations of our American institutions? He tells the Catholics of this country that our schools must no longer be open to ‘all the children of the people,’ and must no longer be ‘freed from all ecclesiastical authority and interference.’ But let American Catholics beware bow they heed this advice! Indeed! The Catholics, then, must either rule or else ruin the very schools in which, by thousands, their own ignorant children are at this moment being educated at the public expense! One of the noble aims of our freedom is to foster Free Schools. A free government rests its pillars on an educated people. Every word of the Pope’s argument against popular intelligence is a blow at the Republic. Are American Catholics to stand with the Pope and against public schools? Are Romish members of our legislatures to attempt the blotting out of the school system? Is the Catholic press to re-echo the Pope’s injunctions and demand that ‘the children of the people’ shall henceforth be educated by monks and friars?
‘The Pontiff, moreover, repudiates the American doctrine ‘that the Church must be separated from the State, and the State from the Church.’ Here, again, Catholics who obey the Pope are incited to revolt against our fundamental principles of government. When State-craft and priest-craft joined to govern the world, all history groaned under the tyranny. The union of Church and State, as this chief Shepherd teaches it to his American sheep, is that Catholics must govern America. The established Church is to be the Romish, and officers of State are to be members of her communion. This is the scheme of the Pontiff for the Republic of the Pilgrims!
Church and State! May God keep them apart while the world stands! For never yet have they come together except, like the upper and the nether millstone, to grind men to powder! ‘Kings and princes,’ says the Pontiff,’ are not to be free from the jurisdiction of the Church.’ How, then, with Presidents, Governors, and Senators? Are the Catholics of this country, having been thus instructed by their spiritual head, to demand of Abraham Lincoln, on his inauguration, that he shall take an oath of allegiance to the Papal See? And if the State has no right to be independent of the Church, if the rulers of the State are thus summoned by the Pope to kiss his toe, how soon are American Catholics to insist on the execution of this behest? Are they already waiting for the budding of an opportunity? Are they setting their trap in secret, to spring it in due time? The Pope’s finger writes upon the forehead of every American Catholic the inscription, ‘Alien and enemy to the United States.’
The comprehensive lesson from the Encyclical is, that Romanism, is incompatible with Republican insititutions. Like slavery, it is a hostile element lodged within the nation, gnawing and burning it like caustic. What is the remedy? If we were asked, ‘May not a man, under ear American institutions cherish the Catholic faith if he pleases?’ we reply, ‘Certainly. But’ we ask, in return, ‘Shall we permit the Index Expurgatorius? Shall we consent to the Inquisition? Shall we suffer the abolition of public schools? Shall we accede to the joining of Church and State?’ So at last there comes a point at which we must say, ‘Thus far and no farther.’ The Pope’s letter will set wise men to drawing the admissible and the inadmissible parts
<c06>
of Romanism under a Republican government Until the appearance of this Encyclical, many liberal-minded Catholics supposed that, in yielding provided spiritual allegiance to Rome, they could at the same time yield undivided temporal allegiance to the United States. But the Encyclical warns them of their error. They owe both supreme spiritual and supreme temporal allegiance to the Papal See. A Romanist, therefore, must either deny his temped allegiance to the Pope, in which case be cannot be a good Catholic, or be must deny his temporal allegiance to the United States, in which case he cannot be a loyal citizen. For a man cannot be, at one and the same time, a citizen of two adverse government- ‘Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other’ The Pope’s letter makes it the duty of the American Government and people to ascertain at once the true attitude of the Catholic classes in report to their loyalty or disloyalty. A man is no more disloyal who gives his oath of temporal allegiance Jefferson Davis than to Pius Ninth. The two cases stand on the same basis—and both are cases of treason. Almost the entire body of Catholics in this country are in full sympathy with slavery, and is half sympathy with the rebellion. Just at present, we have only one intimation to make. Borrowing the glove of Napoleon, the Pope has lately laid he hand upon the Government of Mexico; let him beware how he lays even a finger on the Government of the United States!”

EMIGRATION OF WOMEN.
The general attention excited by Governor Andrew’s allusion to the disproportion of sexes in Missachusetts has proved of great value in every regard. For while a few careless persons have protested that things as they are are very well, the working women themselves, and all persons systematically interested in the relief of poverty, or in social science, have brought forwarded in the proper quarters facts and statistics which show that the Governor was none too early in calling general attention to a growing public evil.
The surplus of women over men in Massachusetts in 1860 was 37,000. Massachusetts has since placed in the navy more than 20,000 sailors, and has sent to the army more than 100,000 men, who have not yet returned. It is impossible to make a conjecture even as to the number of men who have left Massachusetts for other purposes in public or private business which has been set on foot or stimulated by the events of the last five years, but everyone knows that it is very large. Whatever allowance therefore is to be made for the arrival of men from the provinces or from Europe, it is evident that the surplus of women is now very much larger than it was in 1860. 
It would probably not be an over-estimate to say that there are now 100,000 less men than women in Massachusetts, the number of men in round numbers being about 250,000. These statistics, takes from the tables, show distinctly enough why it is that of a class of twenty-six female graduates at a commercial school only three find situations in the course of four months’ applications. They show at the same time why it is that those who are employed receive wages but just above the limit of starvation, —wages which drive men from competition with them in the same business, and therefore increase the emigration of men from the State, and the evil which is complained of. All this, which was distinctly intimated in a few well-chosen paragraphs is the Governor’s speech, has been illustrated in every detail in the various discussions which have followed.
It appears, on inquiry, that this disproportion is largely due to the checks ordinarily placed on the free emigration of women, who cannot go when and where they like, as men can. To take the extreme case which the Governor himself alludes to; a men can go to Oregon for $135 in gold, while a women cannot go for less than $300. This is because a man can go in the steerage, where no woman should go; so that all the entreaty of the emigrant commissioners of the Pacific and Rocky Mountain States and territories is met by the prohibition which our present system imposes, preventing in a large measure the distant travel of women.
To meet this difficulty, however, and to enable the labor market to adjust itself, as it certainly will do two plans are suggested. We call the attention of our friends throughout the Commonwealth to back of them.
First, Mr. Crawford, the late Emigrant Commissioner of the State of Oregon, states that families which are willing to emigrate overland can join the train for which the government provides escort, and make the expedition in wagons from the head of navigation on the Missouri to Boise city, at the head of navigation in Oregon, at an expense not larger than the cost of provisions for the party. That is, be computes that the oxen and wagons which they would purchase for the transit could be sold on as rival in Oregon at prices sufficiently enhanced is cover all other expenses than those of subsistence
Secondly, the Emigrant Aid Company, which has been for years in correspondence with gentlemen of the first position and character in Oregon, has not established its own agent in Portland. His first report is already received. This company will be able if a large enough number of families offer, to send them from Boston to Portland, by way of Aspinwall, at as average charge of not more than one hundred and fifty dollars a head.
The organization of emigration will thus give to women the same right and facility which men have to go where they can obtain the best wages. Oregon, Nevada and Colorado, all of them, are earnestly pressing the advantages which they offer to families of emigrants, to men and to women. By such organization as gives women the power to go where their interest calls them, all the questions of surplus population will settle themselves. The statistics cited in such discussions become wholly unimportant ant after such arrangements are made. The women who have already gone to Oregon under the auspices of different agents for organized emigration will them selves return such accounts to their friends in will determine their action, so soon as decent and respectable means of emigration are provided for them.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223Washington street, to 
NO. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she had for many years made the hair her study, and is sure <illigible>are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in that country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak <illigible>her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are never in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messer’s.. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now proper to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS,FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished to put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks dropped, Gasped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all him furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all of approved kinds. 
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles Street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS
Refers to Shreve,Stanwood &co.
Oct.30—1y
“A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY”FOREVER:”
AND nothing is so beautiful as A FINE HEAD AND HAIR. All preparations for the hair are injurious. By using Professor Wilson’s process, you can have beautiful, lively, curly hair in four weeks; costs but a few cents. Warranted to give satisfaction. Try it<illegible>50 cents to Wilson & Co., P. O. Box, 2821, Philadelphia
March 3.
