THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUTM GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advanced.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
Vol. XXXII. NO. 8.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1626.
<c01>
Refuge of oppression.
"GARRISON."
It is announced that William L. Garrison, "the Nestor of the Abolitionists." as he is boastingly placarded, is to deliver an address on the war in Washington Hall. We cannot but think that this announcement must have taken this community by surprise. The position of this man, and the faction of which he is the "Nestor," has been and is well known as one of undisguised, deadly hostility to the Constitution, the Union, and the Government of the United States. For years, Garrison has, in season and out of season, denounced the Constitution of the United States in terms of unmeasured bitterness and hate, and openly advocated and urged the dissolution of the Union established by our fathers. He has contributed as much, probably in proportion to his position and ability, as any other one man, to bring the country into its present deplorable condition, and now, as he beholds the results of his efforts of others like him, he exults with a sort of fiendish joy in the apparent success which seems to have attended his wicked machinations. And yet, this political incendiary, this habitual reviler of the Constitution and enemy of the government, this traitor in words, if not at heart and in over act, is to be brought here to desecrate with his presence and utterance the Hall which bears the name of Washington. It is too bad. It is an outrage upon the patriotic sentiments of our community; upon the feelings of every true friend of the Constitution. and of the President and administration, who are exerting every energy to preserve and maintain that Constitution. We know not by what agency this arrangement has been made; it is not, we understand, a part of the series of lectures heretofore announced. We hope and trust it will receive no support from the people. This is no time for dallying, or mincing matters. Those who, with their presence and money, countenance and encourage Garrison, and such as he, should be marked with a sigma like that which would be branded upon those who, in the present crisis, when the government is struggling for its existence, would dare to furnish aid and comfort to Mason and Slidell or Jeff. Davis, should those traitors be brought here to promulgate their treasonable dogmas in the ears of this community.-Greenfield (Mass.) Democrat.
The tax-payers of Greenfield are ready and willing to pay their full proportion of the expenses of the present war for the MAINTAINANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION, and they desire to sustain the administration in all necessary measures for that purpose. Are they willing at the present dark hour of our country's history to see their Town Hall desecrated by the ravings of men who denounce that Constitution as a "covenant with death and a league with hell"?-whose presence there is for the purpose of making war upon that sacred instrument? For one, I desire to enter my protest against it.
-Ibid.
AGRICOLA.
EMANCIPATION BY ACT OF CONGRESS.
A movement is now made a prescribe for the Executive a course of procedure on this question very different from that indicated to him by the voice of the people in the election of 1860. That movement is to make Emancipation by Act of Congress the ruling feature in the policy of the Government, in regard to the institution of slavery. This is, unquestionably, the gravest question that has yet been forced upon the legislative councils of the Nation. It is one which has sprung up as an incident to the troublous times attending insurrection. It is not one upon which the people have been interrogated, and upon which their verdict has been rendered. It therefore behooves the Government, both its Legislative and Executive functions, to take great heed as to what they would do on this momentous question.
For ourselves, we hesitate not to declare that we like not the aspect that this grave question assumes. We like not its parentage, we like not its character; we deprecate and dread its consequences. We believe it to be unwise; we doubt even its justice.
No one-not even its authors-will pretend that this proposition for emancipation (we do not speak of the confiscation of the slaves of rebels) would have found its way into Congress had there been no insurrectionary movement against the government on the part of the rebels. It is only by virtue of their rebellious attitude, therefore, that the proposition is at all admissible, even for legislative discussion. Now, we would ask the authors and movers of this measure to tell us why and how it is, that this state of things renders this measure admissible, that would otherwise be regarded as monstrous. They will be ashamed to say that the time is auspicious now for the success of their measure, because, forsooth, the Slave States are but thinly represented in Congress! This would be "taxation without representation" with a vengeance unheard of! Their sense of justice and of manhood would revolt at this. The violation of their self-respect would be, in this, so gross and so debasing, that we cannot impute to them such a mean and miserable motive! Will they tell us that it is the cheapest and safest mode of suppressing the rebellion? We believe it not-but, if it were so, is it not then a disgrace blighting to our national frame, searing to our national honor? What is this but an acknowledgment of our inferiority-of our inability to save ourselves and our country, except by the help of African slaves? And if saved in this mode for the present, how could it be kept safe in the future? Nay,-we deny that it would be either cheapest or safest. The feeling of the South, in thousands of cases now longing for the Union under which they have been always protected, would by such an act become universally embittered, and intensified in its hostility to a degree of such utter ferocity, that would render the war against rebellion a sanguinary combat through indefinite years.
Nor can it be regarded as altogether a safe proceeding to uproot at one stroke the domestic relations of whole commonwealths, to annul all the laws governing the relation of master and slave, to abrogate their relative rights and duties, and to turn four millions of negroes, with their minds uninformed, their passions unregulated, their lusts untamed, out upon civilization, with no power to restrain but by the strong arm of an omnipresent military force!-Such a proceeding might well invoke the most prudential caution.
But when told that their measure is neither wise nor just, that it is both improper and impolitic, its advocates then urge its adoption as a "military necessity." This we repudiate utterly. And in this claim for emancipation are exhibited its most hideous and revolting features. It is a claim put forth in its behalf, too, with the greatest confidence, and urged with the utmost pertinacity. But when it is remembered that "military necessity" is, and ever
<c02>
has been, simply another name for military despotism, and an apology for crime and lawlessness, then the offensive features of this measure of emancipation become painfully conspicuous,-Ohio State Journal.
Selections.
MR. SUMNER'S RESOLUTIONS.
The following are the resolutions on the present relations of the rebel States to the General Government, introduced on Tuesday in the Senate by Mr. Sumner:-
Resolutions declaratory of the relations between the United States and the territory once occupied by certain States, and now usurped by pretended Governments, without constitutional or legal right.
Whereas certain States, rightfully belonging to the Union of the United States, have through their respective Governments wickedly undertaken to abjure all those duties by which their connection with the Union was maintained; to renounce all allegiance to the Constitution; to levy war upon the National Government; and, for the constitution of this treason, have unconstitutionally and unlawfully confederated together, with the declared purpose of putting an end by force to the supremacy of the Constitution within their respective limits; and whereas this condition of insurrection, organized by pretended governments, openly exists in South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Virginia, except in Eastern Tennessee and Western Virginia, and has been declared by the President of the United States, in a proclamation duly made in conformity with an act of Congress, to exist throughout this territory, with the exceptions already named; and whereas the extensive territory thus usurped by these pretended Governments, and organized into a hostile confederation, belongs to the United States as an inseparable part thereof under the sanction of the Constitution, to be held in trust for the inhabitants in the present and future generations, and is so completely interlinked with the Union that it is forever dependent thereupon; and whereas the Constitution, which is the supreme law of the land, cannot be displaced in its rightful operation within this territory, but must ever continue the supreme law thereof, notwithstanding the doings of any pretended governments acting singly or in confederation, in order to put an end to its supremacy; therefore,
1. Resolved, That any vote of secession or other act by which any state may undertake to put an end to the supremacy of the Constitution within its territory is inoperative and void against the Constitution, and when sustained by force it becomes a practical abdication by the State of all rights under the Constitution, while the treason which in involves still further works an instant forfeiture of all those functions and powers essential to the continued existence of the State as a body politic, so that from that time forward the territory falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress as other territory, and the State being, according to the language of the law, felo-de-se, ceases to exist.
2. Resolved, That any combination of men assuming to act in the place of such State, and attempting to ensnare or coerce the inhabitants there of into a confederation hostile to the Union, is rebellious, treasonable, and destitute of all moral authority; and that such combination is a usurpation, incapable of any constitutional existence, and utterly lawless, so that everything dependent upon it is without constitutional or legal support.
3. Resolved, That the termination of a State under the Constitution necessarily causes the termination of those peculiar local institutions which, having no origin in the Constitution or in those natural rights which exist independent of the Constitution are upheld by the sole and exclusive authority of the State.
4. Resolved, That slavery being a peculiar local institution, desired from local laws, without any origin in the Constitution or in natural rights, is upheld by the sole and exclusive authority of the State, and must therefore cease to exist legally or constitutionally when the State on which it depends no longer exists; for the incident cannot survive the principal.
5. Resolved, That in the exercise of its exclusive jurisdiction over the territory once occupied by the States, it is the duty of Congress to see that the supremacy of the Constitution is maintained in its essential principles, so that everywhere in this extensive territory slavery shall cease to exist constitutionally or legally.
6. Resolved, That any recognition of slavery in such territory, or any surrender of slaves under the pretended laws of the extinct States by any officer of the United States, civil or military, is a recognition of the pretended governments, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of Congress under the Constitution, and is in the nature of aid and comfort to the rebellion that has been organized.
7. Resolved, That any such recognition of slavery or surrender of pretended slaves, besides being a recognition of the pretended governments, giving them aid and comfort, is a denial of the rights of persons who, by the extinction of the States, have become free, so that, under the Constitution, they cannot again be enslaved.
8.Resolved, That allegiance from the inhabitant and protection from the Government are corresponding obligations, dependent upon each other, so that while the allegiance of every inhabitant of this territory, without distinction of color or class, is due to the United States, and cannot in any way be defeated by the action of any pretended government, or by any pretence of property or claim to service, the corresponding obligation of protection is at the same time due by the United States to every such inhabitant, without distinction of color or class; and it follows that inhabitants held as slaves, whose paramount allegiance is due to the United States, may justly look to the National Government for protection.
9. Resolved, That the duty directly cast upon Congress by the extinction of the States is reinforced by the positive prohibition of the Constitution, that "no State shall enter into any confederation," or "without the consent of Congress keep troops or ships-of-war in times of peace, or enter into any agreement or compact with another State," or "grant letters or marque and reprisal," or "coin money," or "emit bills of credit," or "without the consent of Congress lay any duties on exports or imports," all of which has been done by these pretended governments, and also by the positive injunction of the Constitution, addressed to the nation, that "the United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government;" and that in pursuance of this duty cast upon Congress, and further enjoined by the Constitution, Congress will assume complete jurisdiction of such vacated territory where such unconstitutional and
<c03>
illegal things have been attempted, and will proceed to establish therein republican forms of government under the Constitution; and in the execution of this trust will provide carefully for the protection of all the inhabitants thereof, for the security of families, the organization of labor, the encouragement of industry, and the welfare of society, and will in every way discharge the duties of a just, merciful and paternal government.
EXTRACTS FROM A SPEECH OF HON. ALBERT G. RIDDLE, OF OHIO.
Delivered in the House of Representatives, Jan. 27, 1862.
The House being in Committee of the whole on the state of the Union, Mr. RIDDLE said,-
The one great question which to-day presents for solution to the people of this country, is the disposition of the African race among us. And so near does this question lie to the nation's life, and so intertwisted is it with its vital fibre, that the prosperity, perhaps the existence, of the country itself depends upon its true solution. I do not like this question; I never did. I wish it were not here, nor anywhere; but it is upon us, and we may not avoid it; we cannot escape it. It is upon and in and about everything; mixed with everything; or, rather, it has itself become everything. We need not now stop to complain of it, nor blame anybody for it. We may be indignant that it so blocks up the way of the nation, and prevents the development of out proud and beautiful race. We may say the negro is not worth all this clamor, or any part of it. That does not get rid of him. And you are to remember he did not bring himself and this war here. Negroes never emigrate. He was stolen and planted here against his wish; and out of the ground which has been cursed with his alien feet has sprung this infernal question. A million of armed soldiers are debating it. It is the argument of every red field of conflict. Every morning a million of bayonets come pricking through the dull cloud of night to cross and clash over it. It must be solved and settled. It must be talked about; all that everybody knows of, or can think about it, had better straightway be said-said as well as men can say it; with good intent and for good purpose. Let us see it in all the lights in which it can be exhibited, and find, if may be, a way out of it. The woman-faced, lion-bodied Memphian Sphynx propounded a riddle to the passers by, and those who failed to read it aright were put to death. To-day, like the Sphynx, propounds to us this question, and if we do not answer rightly, we shall also perish. And those who would postpone this weightiest matter ought to remember that the sword is already suspended over it, and a downward sweep will settle it forever.
This rebel war makes us the inevitable allies of the slave in his war against the master; and every slaveholder is in some sense, involuntary it may be, the ally of the rebels; and it is a most wonderful indication that the limits of the infected region exactly coincide with the boundary lines of the slave States. If any of those States remain nominally loyal, it argues not only the depth and strength of the patriotism of the noble men who control them, but also the weakness and poverty of slavery in them, and shows that it may be wholly overcome in a rational scheme of emancipation.
In the application of our power, however derived, to the subject under consideration, I would adopt the principles of that proclamation to the language of which the oppressed and laboring heart of the nation rose up as to the voice of God-the property of all rebels should be confiscated, and their slaves "are hereby declared free." My convictions and judgment might carry me further, but there are checking considerations that at this time, to me, render it inexpedient.
I know that our amazing policy in this gasping, strangling contest for the breath of life is thus far the reverse of this; we even reject with scorn the aid of one entire and powerful class of our subjects; that race, too, for whose destiny and our own the war is; and yet we will perish rather than aid shall come fro them. Nay, we will perish rather than seek to withdraw them from striking with our mortal foes! Was ever fatuity so sublime? What can be the solution of this prodigious folly? Is it indeed true that slavery is the one holy thing, so sacred that even in this struggle we are to remain the enemies of our own allies, and the allies of our enemies against ourselves? There never was a war conducted so lambent and so lamb-like, where the persons of your enemies are too sacred to be smitten by any save a pure white; and where you so carefully guard their feelings against the mortification of being beaten in the field by the kindred of their own bondmen. I remember this last summer, and it has been recently repeated, the dignified incident of stripping off a cast-off uniform from the back of a colored servant of one of your colonels, out of respect to the feelings of your enemy! Sir, a nation that goes into such a struggle so daintily and mincingly, so be-gloved and be-scented and be-fooled and besotted, will find it a death-struggle indeed. Never, until we can shuffle off these sickly and sickening sentimentalisms, and confront this great catastrophe with all the means that lie within our grasp in our hands, shall we be equal to its fearful demands. Gentlemen may turn their pallid faces loathingly away, and hold their weak stomachs, but I say to them that they and their policy must go to the rear-the front of this battle is for other hands.
The Government is a unit; it cannot exist in broken parts; and whoever strikes it down in South Carolina, strikes it down in Massachusetts. If you cannot enforce its laws in New Orleans, it is idle to adjudicate them in New York. I know that, by common consent, we may continue to obey them; but the essential sanction, found only in national sovereignty, is gone; so that a patriotism limited to the narrow boundaries of a State binds us to the inexorable necessity of restoring all the States under the national sovereignty; for it is only through that means that the integrity and safety of our own States can be preserved. And that, sir, is our labor to the exclusion of everything else on earth.
Adjust a system of judicature for Georgia and Alabama! This giant treason has torn asunder the band that bound this constellation of nations upon the brow of this continent, and has tumbled them hither and thither, to be lost in the dust and ashes with which Time buries the dead nations. It is our labor to go forth like Titans, and, grasping these lost orbs, heave them up, and restore the unity and harmony of our system. The labor is super Herculean. Bring out your engineers, crane them up, and sway them back to their places, and fasten them there with eternal ligatures of truth and justice, forever out of the reach of the loosening hand of rebellion!
We are told, in this fearful exigency, that "we should not be in haste to determine what radical and extreme measures, which may reach the loyal
<c04>
as well as the disloyal, and indispensable." Oh, no; we are to mince, and hesitate, and deliberate; and when we deal a blow, it is to be a gentle, admonitory tap, upon an invulnerable part. If you strike strong and heavy, the recoil may injure the loyal. Do not our loyal suffer? Is it nothing that thousands and thousands of our bravest and best go down in battle, and waste away to death in camp and tent and hospital, waylaid in solitary, shadowy gorges and glens, and murdered? Nothing that the whole land is hung with the drapery of mourning, until it seems shrouded in the garments of night, and filled with the sobs of woe? Do not the loyal suffer among us? And may the loyal of the border States purchase exemption fro the unavoidable evils incident to war and their position? Shall the whole country perish because its salvation would bring peculiar hardships, not to their lives or persons, but to their property alone, which may be compensated for? In the name of all that is fearful in this exigency, what is it you demand for them, and at what a fearful hazard? Does not all this mean that, at all events, slavery is to be the one thing not to suffer? Is it not weighing it naked and alone against the nation, and in a doubtful balance? What fearful and terrible apprehensions this suggests! And if the time ever arrives in the councils of the Executive to make the hesitating choice, where will the patriots of the border States be found?
"Gentle shepherd, tell us where?'
Sir, the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Wadsworth) more than answers this inquiry, and tells us where. They will strike doubtingly and languidly with us until we differ about the mode of carrying on the war, and then against us. Be it so. Is this the measure and standard of a Kentuckian's love of country? Were all these florid professions but painted bubbles, filled with tainted breath? What does this mean? Kentucky would remain true to the Constitution; but then, in a given event, the rebellion would grow to such proportions as to include fifteen States. Let it grow if it will. The gentleman may then learn, if he is curious, whether we can endure the "smell of gunpowder." I represent the gentleman as I understood him. Are these the descendants of the Kentuckians of 1812-of that gallant host who came plunging through the woods to our far-off invaded border; who raised the siege of Fort Meigs, and aided us to pursue and capture a British army on British soil? Do not say we are ungrateful for this, or that we would injure Kentuckians. Already thirty-five thousand bayonets have gone sparkling over the dividing river from Ohio to prove that we cannot forget; to prove that we so detest Kentucky, that we trust our brave and beautiful ones between her and her foes, and give her a chance to rally her own sons! What do gentlemen mean by these charges on this floor? Who is Garfield, and whence come his forty-second regiment? Who are McCook and his ninth? Where got they bayonets? And whence came Kinney, who planted his guns within sixty yards of murderous musketry? And the gallant Standart, and the fragile, girlish boy Wetmore, with his lion heart and Parrott guns? All, save McCook and his ninth, are from my own fanatic region. Standart and his heroes are from my own city, and Wetmore took his men from a single neighborhood of my district-all identical in sentiment, yet they asked no question, they made no condition, and they never will. The blood runs as red and hot and generous on the breezy shores of Lake Erie as in a more southern clime. If more men are needed, there are ready thousands to go-take all. The newest bride shall be the widowed; the youngest babe shall be the orphaned; the last hearth shall be left desolate; and the last heart beat and break under the war-hoof, without question or condition. No wavering or hesitation weakens an arm or checks the devotion of my people.
But do not be in haste-no need in the world for expedition! This below has only cloven away one-half of our empire, and a good deal more than half our sea-coast, and reduced us to a rugged narrow belt across the continent, and beleagured our capital for a few months. This is nothing! Do not for that go to being radical, and get ourselves talked about! You might hurt a rebel's feelings, and make him uneasy about his property.
Do you remember, sir, the glowing figure of the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Harding) who likened the States to the sons and daughters of a great family residing in different apartments of one grand home mansion that had taken fire?
You remember he, too, represented us Ohioans, Indianians, and Illinoisans, as refusing to aid in extinguishing the flames, unless our brothers will consent to dismiss their servants. Sir, it was these very domestic that caused this fire, and it is through their agencies that it is still fed and fanned, and no power on earth can save the edifice till they are expelled.
We will not aid, will we? Who furnished these six hundred thousand men and these six hundred millions of money? Who now stands between Kentucky and the flames, or fearlessly tread the brands of the conflagration that have charred and blackened her?
This mansion is indeed a wondrous edifice, such as mortals never before erected. Grand and sublime in its proportions, yet constructed on the simplest and most elementary principles of art. With its out-sweeping walls, wide enough to protect the millions of a continent, yet lifting its dome so loftily that the western sun flings its shadow across the sea, and falls startlingly and ominously among the pigmy kings and dwarfed tribes of the far-off Old World.
What priceless riches are hoarded in that structure! There are gathered all the hearths and hopes and homes of once happy millions; all the garnered treasures of the past, the precious present. and the roots and elements of all the grand future. There is the fountain of law, and justice, and government, from whence emanates that protecting, all-pervading influence we call the "public peace." And this grand nation-home is on fire: has been burning for months. The whole south wing is a roaring mass of molten flames that shoot their fierce tongues into the heart of the heavens, licking up the nights, and startling the nations with their glare. The fiery mass has rolled against the very walls of the Capitol, and left them shrunken, and blackened, and shriveled by its breath.
And we, sir many of us, would meet this conflagration with its great enemy. We propose to turn upon it a torrent, compared with which Niagara, with its works of waters leaping from their cloudy thrones, and crushing themselves in mist, is but a glittering cascade. "Hold on!" cry out our singed brothers, with exclamatory horror, "hold on! you will drown out our domestic institutions; and besides, your water is unconstitutional any way!" "Hold on!" gasps the head of the family, choked with smoke, with his eye-lashes scorched off, "don't be radical; you may wash away all the creeping things that infest that wing, and I am sworn to preserve them. Let me try my gill cup a while
<c05>
longer! Don't be rash-let it burn!" Oh, yes; let it burn! God give us patience and wisdom in this day of our visitation!
To nations, as to individuals, is given but a single life; and its hopes and opportunities are measured by the span of to-day. Who can say when our to-day shall close? Even now its hour seems to decline and languish. The sands of its minutes are crushed to impalpable dust by the fearful burdens rolled upon them-burdens that we must carry, or under which we must perish.
THE BRITISH LION.
There have been many good lions in the world. But since the days of the royal lions among whom Daniel fell, there have been none so temperate, so exemplary in every Christian grace, as the lions among whom Jonathan has fallen. Where England got her lion-stock; of what breed it is; by what cross or training it has been improved, we do not know; but so well-bred, well-behaved, and altogether admirable lions as there are in that royal den, we do not believe the world ever saw.
Several of its graces fill the English papers just now with singular admiration. Never did lion before show such a temperate appetite; never had lion such moral scruples; never did lion seem so near to prophetic condition of lying down with the lamb. There the royal brute lay in the very door of England, and saw beeves, sheep, and much swine of American affairs driven before it, and never snatched a morsel. We shall never know how this dear converted lion inwardly felt; what struggles it waged, and what victories it inwardly gained. But we are assured that he never stirred a paw, nor licked his watering lips, but saw all the confusion and accessible prey of America with no sentiments but those becoming a truly converted and Christian lion!
The British Standard, a religious weekly newspaper, edited, we believe, by our friend, the most estimable and excellent Rev. Dr. Campbell, in the New Year's summary, given in the number for January 3, exhibits some of the virtues and experiences of the British lion, in a way that should make the American eagle hang its head.
1. The lion's opinion of the loyal States:-
"It is useless for people to tell us of Northern noble enthusiasm, and point to the challenge of the President for 75,000 able-bodied men so eagerly answered. What did they do? What have they done? What can they do? To say now that the Americans 'are not a military people' is no answer at all. The coarse swagger of their rulers would have led the civilized world, had they not known better, to have regarded them with scrupulous civility, approaching almost to terror. The boasted prowess of the North has proved a delusion; and unless hostilities with England should unhappily break out, there seems but little prospect that peace between the American belligerents would be any nearer next Christmas than now. The North has been over and over again both defeated and disgraced, and no matter what extenuating circumstances may be urged, if such they can be called: there the facts stand."
The respectful language in which the President of the United States is mentioned, the sympathy with which a people are regarded who are struggling to save their Government and institutions from an insurrection of slaveholders and a war of ten States confederated to establish slavery as the "cornerstone of the republic," according to Vice-President Stephens, cannot but excite the regard of all who love civilized lions, and who abhor such untamed beasts as yet exist in Africa.
2. The lion boasts of controlling his appetite:-
"Our traders, however great their losses, have viewed the matter in a temperate spirit; our ships have patiently borne vexatious annoyances which will not be always endured; and even our working population in the manufacturing provinces, whose main support is cotton, have, in the face of present news, left off murmuring. England can stand erect in the face of the world, and defy any one to point to a single word or action on her part which infringed that strict neutrality which she has always so anxiously striven to preserve."
Not to meddle with affairs that do not belong to him costs much to his traders, his ship-owners, and his manufacturers. But, let the world take notice, the lion does not stir out of his tracks yet. He growled, but even that is now stopped, and he says he has "left off murmuring." Not a growl, not a whiffet, not a purr: ever so gentle!
3. The lion pats his sides:-
"Enough of the general question. The one momentous event, the circumstances of which are fresh in the mind of every individual in the country, deserves separate, although brief notice. It is, as we have before remarked, matter for pride and admiration that the whole country remained cool and comparatively unexcited under intelligence so irritating, so calculated to arouse the worst and most enduring of all the passions of our nature. Pending the probable hourly arrival of the mail, it is unnecessary to add more."
The lion was tempted, it seems. St. Jerome was tempted; St. Francis was; all eminent saints have been. The path of peace cannot be trod by lion's paw without some self-denial. But the British lion has been mercifully sustained. We do not wonder that it admires itself. When had lion more cause for pride, for devout pride, grateful pride,-indeed, for spiritual pride? There was a chance to fight, and he didn't! He smelt blood, but would not taste a drop! Daniel gives some account of his own experiences during his stay in the royal dormitory of lions, and also of the king's feeling, who with the most conscientious scruples and despotic qualms of tenderness, had put him to bed with such strange bedfellows. And he declares that angels "had shut the lions' mouths." But the English lion had to hold his own mouth, without supernatural aid. We can imagine the creature, with one paw beneath the under-jaw and another above his muzzle, resolutely holding fast a mouth in which some remains of the old nature yet lingered. But now the lion's mouth is opened again; but this time to utter congratulations and praises of his own transcendent virtue. May he never fall from grace! If he has not yet attained to the eating of straw, like an ox, he is on the way to it. He feeds surprisingly well on cotton, and his diet agrees with him. So long as the cotton bale endures, the British lion will be pious.
3. The other side.
We are really grieved to know that there are scorners around the royal den, who deride all the soft experiences of the lion, and who charge him with conduct unbecoming-we will not say to a civilized lion, but even to the dignity of one of those superb wildings that Gerard hunted. There, for instance, is the London Herald of Peace, published the same week with the British Standard, that describes the conduct of the royal brute in this scandalous manner:-
"For, look at the case calmly for a moment. An American captain has exercised, in a somewhat questionable form, one of the rights of war, which, let it be remembered, has become such mainly through our teaching and example, and has been more frequently
<c06>
and more peremptorily practised by us than by any other nation in the world. And what has been the result? Why this: that before time has been given to investigate the case, before negotiation with the American Government was possible, before the great authorities on international law could be compared and collated, so as to elicit anything like a clear and consistent judgment, the public voice has broken forth into an hysteric scream of anger and defiance. Numbers of people go about with clenched fists and flushed countenances, refusing to hear of any alternative but that of war to the knife. The air resounds with words of threatening and slaughter. The newspapers are surcharged with every form of outrage and insult they can devise against the American Government and people."
A paper in Oxford, England, in its January issue, has the following editorial language, of a character exceedingly objectionable to all believers in the British lion:-
"And is there not a mocking, scornful, proud, lying, and blood-thirsty legion entered into that other 'church,' the priesthood of literature so-called? In the very presence, as it were, of our unburied dead, have not the worst passions of our nature been stimulated as by incarnate fiends? by misrepresentation and exaggeration, by defamation and falsehood in a thousand forms, the chief literary organ of the nation has day by day stimulated to hot and hasty and unreasoning revenge. With a settled and studied and cold malevolence, which we like not to call human, but which exemplifies all the satanic in man, the Times has breathed out threatenings and slaughter. It has sought to poison the very life-blood of the nation; it has striven to sink the national honor into eternal infamy, and to have the national courage branded with cowardice through all time. Have not the Times and its followers sought to identify the Government and nation with that sum of all villanies, slavery; and to 'ally' the nation with conspirators, men-stealers, and the would be founders of a slave empire? Have they not greedily seized occasion-have they not made occasion to do this? With a cowardice and criminality too great for a name, have they not striven to excite and hound on the nation? Yes; the cry has been, Strike! Strike, and do not hear; strike, and 'kill, kill;' kill the man, our brother, who has fallen among thieves, and is struggling for honor, freedom, life! Strike with and for the rebel slaveholder; slander and strike your erring brother in his extremity, and call that the vindication of national honor, and a display of British energy and courage. Strike, and do not hear. Write and speak of 'The American Campaign,' of 'our enemies,' and of 'the war,' as if you feared peace, and were of those who 'delight in war,' against whom inspired prayer stands written! Thus, as if indeed Satan were unbound, and had entered into the men of the Times and the Saturday Review-thus, even in the new widowhood of our honored and beloved Queen, have we had the suggestions of cold malevolence and studied wickedness, and war-shrieks, as of infernal sprits, the enemies of God and man, athirst for human blood."
Somebody is mistaken. Either Dr. Campbell is, or the peace folks are. Somebody's lion has been conducting himself ridiculously. What are the facts?
A FABLE WITH A MORAL. Once upon a time a Southern preacher said to his slave, "Peter how did you like my sermon this morning?" "Ah, massa, berry much! You look jes like a lion." "Lion Peter? Why, you never saw a lion." "Oh yes, massa, I seed him. Tom ride him down to water, by here, ebery day." "Why, Peter, that is a jackass, and not a lion." "Well, massa, can't help it. Dat's jest de way you look."-N.Y. Independent.
LETTER TO THE PEOPLE OF THE NORTH.
PEOPLE OF THE NORTH: In this hour of national peril have twenty million of free men nothing to do but to stand and watch to see what a few men at Washington will do?
I ask you, Northern men and women, who wait and wish and long for something to be done, what can be done, and who will do it?
Do you expect the President and his Cabinet, even though united, to mould the nation, and out of this discord bring forth harmony? And to do it, too, with such a mysterious silence, that we shall never know when or how the nation was born again?
Do you expect Gen. McClellan to lead six hundred thousand Northern freemen into the jaws of slavery-into the valley of death-while you declare they shall not slay, nor even touch, the hydra-headed monster that stands ready to devour them? Can he lead an army forward without the inspiration of some purpose? Must you not unseal his lips, unfetter all his powers, until his noble proclamations winnow our ranks of dastards and traitors: till he shall raise our standard so high, that none but those whose eyes have looked on the Star of Bethlehem can see and follow?
With four million slaves on our side, led by the God of Moses, what are three hundred thousand slaveholders with their barbarian minions, backed up by allied England, France and Spain?
Millions of Northern men and women read the daily papers, and wish that on the Potomac there might be some grand move, never dreaming that the army and the government fall back on the people for principle and power; for conscience and courage, and are themselves anxiously waiting for them to decide what is to be done.
The grandest move that can be made is for us to say, "SLAVERY MUST DIE!" From sea to sea, let there go forth one simultaneous shout for freedom. Proclaim a day of jubilee to the bondmen that dwell in our land.
You ask why they, at Washington, wait? They wait for us to speak. Our statesmen have, with thought and care, reviewed the ground, and clearly see there is no hope for us, but through one mighty gate, whose ponderous hinges they cannot turn alone. Aided by the Northern hosts, it would soon spring open wide, and usher our army into the temple of liberty, whose presiding goddess stands ready to crown the heroes who, in this holy crusade, have freely offered all that mankind holds most dear on the altar of their country's fame and glory.
Now is the time to speak. This nation must be electrified, until one purpose pulsates every heart. Let our bravest and our best, the distributors of divine influence, be omnipresent. Like tireless angels, let them gather up every sigh and groan, and hope and prayer for liberty; and with them, forge fresh thunderbolts to hurl against the bulwarks of slavery. Now is the time for holy men to call around them those who wait to hear; those who in anguish cry, "Watchman, what of the night?"
Let us declare to the earth, that this is a war for high and holy principle, not for a slaveholding Union that cannot be restored, or a Constitution that was never sacred to one half the nation.
This is a war against barbarians, who know no law but that of might; against idolaters, whose gods are cotton and slavery; against polygamists and adulterers, who have abrogated the marriage institution, sold men and women on the auction-block, and given their own daughters to the highest bidder,
Let us declare the purpose of this war-inscribe LIBERTY on our banners, and bid the people go forward-
"The crisis presses on us,
Face to face with us it stands."
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
To-day Humanity expects every man to do his duty. Let the blacksmith at his anvil, the farmer at his plough, the merchant at his desk, all strike the 
Key-note of Liberty: for this is the grand chorus of freedom, chanted in the New World, by martyrs from every race and clime. It is a most significant fact, that every nation that has ever fought for liberty on her own soil is now represented in our grand army.
From this hour let no general dare to send our soldiers on the base errands of slavery. It was not for such foul deeds our Northern freeman left their homes, poured out their hard-earned wealth, and welcomed toil and death.
With bleeding hearts our mothers never sent their sons to hunt brave men back into the hell of slavery.
If our commanders now at the helm know not how or where to guide the ship of State, let them retire below, until the waves subside, and summon to the deck the ablest of the crew, those who know where the dangers lie, and how to battle with the storm.
Let the indignant thunders of nation's voice fall on our Pharaoh's ear, and bid him know that for the sacrifice of life and home, and wealth and ease, we are resolved that our flag shall wave from lake to gulf, from sea to sea; and that none but freemen shall rest beneath its stars.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
[This excellent Address of Mrs. Stanton was read at the State Anti-Slavery Convention recently held at Albany, N.Y., to which it was originally sent.]
"SEEDS AND SHELLS."
A SERMON BY REV.O.B.FROTHINGHAM. A very handsome pamphlet edition of a recent sermon by Rev. O.B. Frothingham has been published in New York, and is for sale by Walker, Wise & co., Boston. Its title is "Seeds and Shells." The best thing we can say of it is that it is entirely worthy of its author,-a man who, if his life is spared, is yet to be acknowledged as one of the leading minds of America. We gave a brief extract from the sermon, last week, in an article on the death of Adjutant Hodges.-Roxbury Journal.
[From the admirable sermon here referred to, we make the following extract as a specimen of its quality:-
It is the most earnest hope of many, and those the most earnest people, that we, as a people, are that we, as a people, are now passing through a process of evolution, and it is this hope alone that sustains them amid the sorrows and sacrifices of the times: sorrows, however, which really do not yet, and hardly by any possibility can, compare with those endured by our noble fathers in the Revolution, that has made us what we are; sacrifices that do not begin to be as heavy as theirs were. The principle of life in our people, the sentiment of liberty, the sense of the practical feeling of what is due to man as man has been growing prodigiously, to many people very alarmingly, in the last twenty years. It has increased with the increasing population, it has enlarged with the enlarging territory, it has become clear and powerful by force of circumstances. It could not any longer be contained within the old social limits, and was rapidly creating a new society of its own, radically different from that of older States. It has been apparent, for a long time, that the shell of the Constitution was becoming thin and weak at the clauses that pledged the return of fugitives and guaranteed the three-fifths representation, and must soon open there; and now the ghastly split that pushes asunder the states that live by slavery and the States that live by freedom, shows the extent to which the vital germs of our nationality have swollen, and the vigor with which they insist on making their way out into larger development and more purely human relations. The Southern people knew that the elements of free society were on the spread, better than we knew it, who were bearing them in our bosoms and scattering them through our States. They felt the significance of that growth before we did; they confessed its irresistibleness while we doubted its existence; they caught the alarm before we cherished the hope of its advance; they acted on an instinct which our innocent unconsciousness persisted in regarding in the light of a frenzy, and was in truth very simply and honestly amazed at. They understood us far more completely than we understood ourselves, and the action which they adopted and pursued so eagerly was suggested by that understanding, and fully justified by it. As has been finely said, "Slavery, the savage, laid its ear to the ground, and heard in those ballots falling for Abraham Lincoln the fatal tramp of many centuries, the mustering for liberty of the ages that take no step backwards." It did not care to wait till the firm tramp of those centuries echoed through the streets of Southern cities; it shook its head doubtfully at the asseverations of the Republican scouting party, that no army was coming at all, that simply a picket guard was to be stationed along the border line, with strict orders not to set a foot on the sacred soil. It distrusted our proclamations, and laughed to scorn our professions of regard for the Union, the Constitution, and the existing laws. It had discovered and rightly interpreted the "Social significance of our institutions," as clearly as any of our philosophers, and much earlier than they. It turned a deaf ear to the pacific assurances of our statesmen and politicians, and heard only the thunder-voice of Destiny, bidding it prepare for the worst, foolishly fancying that for the South, too, it was the worst, and not the best. The simple fact that, when challenged to name their grievances, the list which the Seceders produced was so ridiculously small, was a proof that their grievances were very deep, too deep to be spoken, too deep to be argued. Such action as theirs could not be taken without cause; and the cause was one that was more tangible to their social instinct than to their logic. The more sophistical their plea, the more conclusive their reasoning; the more flimsy their justification, the more rooted their conviction. Our popular orators never had easier task than to make sport of their manifestoes; but, when the manifestoes were torn all to pieces by historical statements, by argument, rhetoric, wit, the position of our adversaries remained as unshaken as if they had not been touched. They knew that a process of social development, which had been going on for years, had at last reached the point when its open disclosure was certain, and all attempts to hide it beneath the old Constitution were vain. They saw that the shell of the formal Union must crack, and they were determined, since crack it must, that it should crack at the great central seam which divided the democratic from the aristocratic institutions. With desperate stroke they smote the old fabric, and tore a portion of it away. Ghastly was the rent they made. Ghastly as the pale corse that lay in its winding-sheet at the foot of the cross will be the prostrate form of the old organization, the dear old form so many loved. It is the growth of liberty which has caused this bursting open of a nation's constitutional environment. And, ah! what a harvest may come from this decomposing and perishing seed! a harvest of peace to " right-minded men." Think, O think, what it would be to heave from our hearts that monstrous belching. Etna of slavery, and to draw in, instead of its sulphurous blasts, long and deep inhalations of the pure atmosphere of Heaven! The emancipation of the black people would be the emancipation of all the white people in the land. The merchants would be free in their honor; the traders would be free in their honesty; judges would be free to be just; lawyers would be free to be conscientious; clergymen would be free to be Christian; patriots would be free to love their country sincerely; citizens would be free to consult the glorious welfare of the State; gentlemen and ladies would be free to tell the truth in parlor and street. The seeds of healthy industry and quick intelligence would be scattered broad-cast over the whole country, and would come up in the shape of factories, schools, libraries, churches, clustering houses in the midst of pleasant gardens and teeming farms, flourishing villages, great cities, literature, science, art, laws fitted to the moral sentiment of the nation, institutions suited to the popular life. What luscious fruit to the Southern people themselves would not all this bring! The brain is bewildered at the dream of it: the redemption of their lands; the enormously enhanced production of free labor; the lifting of that black terror of insurrection; the privilege of teaching the laboring class, and of turning to account the latent human powers, whose activity they dare not now encourage; the rescue of thousands of young men from the pit of a most abominable licentiousness, and the opening to them of a manly and honorable career where shall we stop? There is really no end to the benefits that emancipation would confer. All that free institutions have done, where they have done most; all that free institutions have done in Massachusetts, might be freely promised in time to all the continent, it the shell, already so cracked and divided that it just hangs together by a few filaments of
<c02>
sentiment or policy, could be manfully struck, and nobly permitted to fall into the ground, and die. This is an hour of high congratulation at the splendid success of our Federal arms; success the more encouraging, as opening a way, into the very heart of slave-dom, for the entrance of a civilization, armed, invasive, eager, enthusiastic, untrammelled, driven before the blasts of Providence, and persistent with the whole vigor of destiny. Let the morning stars of our banner sing together once more, in this faint flushing of the new creation's dawn; let the guns tell the coming of a new morning; let joyous bells ring out our gladness on the wintry air; but let us see that the supreme cause of congratulation is the almost gigantic progress of the public sentiment in favor of liberty, which has brought us to this pass at length, and which speaks out now in noble speeches-speeches like buds on the brown bark of the apple tree, showing that the day-spring from on high is advancing with steady steps, and will soon, spite of an occasional east wind, cover all the tree tops with the fragrant snow of the young summer.
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF GEORGIA.
Fellow-Citizens:-In a few days, the Provisional Government of the Confederate States will live only in history. With it we shall deliver up the trust we have endeavored to use for your benefit, to those more directly selected by yourselves. The public record of our acts is familiar to you, and requires no further explanation at our hands. Of those matters which policy has required to be secret, it would be improper now to speak. This address, therefore, will have no personal reference. We are well assured that there exists no necessity for us to arouse your patriotism, nor to inspire your confidence. We rejoice with you in the unanimity of our State, in its resolution and its hopes. And we are proud with you that Georgia has been "illustrated," and we doubt not will be illustrated again by her sons in our holy struggle. The first campaign is over; each party rests in place, while the winter's snow declares an armistice from on high. The results in the field are familiar to you, and we will not recount them. To some important facts we call your attention:
First: The moderation of our own government and the fanatical madness of our enemies have dispersed all differences of opinion among our people, and united them forever in the war of independence. In a few border States a waning opposition is giving way before the stern logic of daily developing facts. The world's history does not give a parallel Instance of a revolution based upon such unanimity among the people.
Second: Our enemy has exhibited an energy, a perseverance and an amount of resources which we had hardly expected, and a disregard of Constitution and laws which we can hardly credit. The result of both, however, is that power, which is the characteristic element of despotism, and renders it as formidable to its enemies as it is destructive to its subjects.
Third: An immense army has been organized for our destruction, which is being disciplined to the unthinking stolidity of regulars. With the exclusive possession of the seas, our enemy is enabled to throw upon the shores of every State the nucleus of an army. And the threat is made, and doubtless the attempt will follow in early spring, to crush us with a giant's grasp by a simultaneous movement along our entire borders.
Fourth: With whatever alacrity our people may rush to arms, and with whatever energy our Government may use its resources, we cannot expect to cope with our enemy either in numbers, equipments or munitions of war. To provide against these odds, we must look to desperate courage, unflinching daring, and universal self-sacrifice.
Fifth: The prospect of foreign interference is atleast a remote one, and should not be relied on. If it comes, let it be only auxiliary to our own preparations for freedom. To our God and ourselves alone we should look.
These are stern facts; perhaps some of them are unpalatable. But we are deceived in you if you would have us conceal them in order to deceive you. The only question for us and for you is, as a nation and individually, what have we to do? We answer: First: As a nation we should be united, forbearing to one another, frowning upon all factious opposition and censorious criticisms., and giving a trustful and generous confidence to those selected as our leaders in the camp and the council chamber.
Second: We should excite every nerve and strain every muscle of the body politic to maintain our financial and military healthfulness, and, by rapid aggressive action, make our enemies feel, at their own firesides, the horrors of a war brought on by themselves.
The most important matter for you, however, is your individual duty. What can you do?
The foot of the oppressor is on the soil of Georgia. He comes with lust in his eye, poverty in his purse, and hell in his heart. He comes a robber and a murderer. How shall you meet him? With the sword, at the threshold! With death for him or for yourself! But more than this-let every woman have a torch, every child a firebrand-let the loved homes of our youth be made ashes, and the fields of our heritage be made desolate. Let blackness and ruin mark your departing steps, if depart you must, and let a desert more terrible than Sahara welcome the Vandals. Let every city be levelled by the flame and every village be lost in ashes. Let your faithful slaves share your fortune and your crust. Trust wife and children to the sure refuge and protection of God-preferring even for these loved ones the charnel-house as a home than loathsome vassalage to a nation already sunk below the contempt of the civilized world. This may be your terrible choice, and determine at once and without dissent as honor and patriotism and duty to God require.
Fellow-citizens, lull not yourselves into a fatal security. Be prepared for every contingency. This is our only hope for a sure and honorable peace. If our enemy was to day convinced that the feast here in indicated would welcome him in every quarter of this Confederacy, we know his base character well enough to be assured that he would never come. Let then the smoke of your homes, fired by women's hands, tell the approaching foe that over sword and bayonet they will rush only to fire and ruin.
We have faith in God and faith in you. He is blind to every indication of Providence who has not seen an Almighty hand controlling the events of the past year. The wind, the wave, the cloud, the mist, the sunshine and the storm have all ministered to our necessities, and frequently succored us in our distresses. We deem it unnecessary to recount the numerous instances which have called forth our gratitude. We would join you in thanksgiving and praise. "If God be for us, who can be against us?"
Nor would we condemn your confident look to our armies, when they can meet a foe not too greatly their superior in numbers. The year past tells a story of heroism and success, of which our nation will never be ashamed. These considerations, however,
should only stimulate us to greater deeds and nobler efforts. An occasional reverse we must expect-such as has depressed us within the last few days. This is only temporary.
We have no fears of the result-the final issue. You and we may have to sacrifice our lives in the holy cause: but our honor will be saved untarnished, and our children's children will rise up to call us "blessed."
HOWELL COBB,
R. TOOMBS,
M. J. CRAWFORD,
THOMAS R. R. COBB.
Among the crimes which have disgraced the history of mankind, it would be difficult to find one more atrocious than this. [Shutting up the harbor of Charleston.] Even the tierce tribes of the desert will not destroy the well which gives life to the enemy.-London Times.
The Times has a bad memory. It forgets that "crimes" equally, yea, infinitely more "atrocious," blacken almost every page of English history. It forgets that Great Britain attempted to "destroy" an American port, by a similar device, during the last war: that she perpetrated the "atrocity" of "hermetically sealing" the harbor of Boulogne by sinking stone vessels, in 1813; that she compelled China to buy opium at the cannon's mouth; that she paid a premium on the scalps of Yankees during the war of the revolution; that she deliberately exterminated the Rohilas in the mountains of India; that she blew regiments of Sepoys from the mouths of cannon, depopulated entire provinces by the sword, and barbarously massacred the Prince of Delhi during the late Indian Rebellion! We are tolerably self-possessed; but when John Bull goes to lecturing us on the etiquette of war, we can't help exploding into "inextinguishable laughter" before the old gentleman's face.-Albany Evening Journal.
<c03>
The Liberator
No Union with slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1862.
LETTER TO GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
MY DEAR FRIEND AND COADJUTOR:
In common with the great body of Abolitionists in this country, I have been greatly surprised,-not at the ignorance pervading England in regard to American affairs, for this I found to be universal, in many cases to a ludicrous extent, on my several visits, and time seems to have done little or nothing to enlighten it since I was last with you in 1846,-but at the general obfuscation of mind among our English anti-slavery co-laborers, respecting the nature of the civil war now going on in America, the bearing it has upon the cause of liberty in its broadest significance, and the position occupied by those with whom they have so long, so disinterestedly, and so generously cooperated for the peaceful extinction of negro slavery, by moral and religious instrumentalities, on this side of the Atlantic. To us, they appear to have lost all power of discrimination as to the great issues presented, and therefore all power of correct reasoning; while, to their vision, we, the hitherto uncompromising enemies of slavery, appear to have abdicated our high position of unswerving principle for the low ground of political expediency in order, for once, to be on the popular side-deceiving ourselves with the idea, that we shall win the victory over the great dragon of slavery all the more readily by pursuing such a course! Certainly, there is a total misapprehension on one side or the other. I think it is with them: and though. in view of all that has been written and published on the subject, I almost despair of removing that misapprehension in the slightest degree, yet, by the love I bear them, I feel impelled to address this letter to you-hoping it may not be wholly in vain.
As for yourself, you need nothing from me, either by way of information or guidance, at this particular juncture. Before I read any of the admirable speeches which you have made on the American question, or knew any thing of your sentiments pertaining to it, I felt sure that your judgment would be sound, and your verdict just, as between our Government and the southern traitors who have so perfidiously risen in rebellion against it. Your mastery of American affairs is absolute: the key to unlock them is SLAVERY, and of that key you took possession when you first came to this country in 1884, and have ever since used it with all possible skill, diligence and success. You have had the advantage of a residence here; and though it subjected you to better opprobrium and great peril at that time, nevertheless, it enabled you to traverse a wide extent of country, to gather a large amount of valuable information, and to understand the precise relations subsisting between the Federal and State Government, with their special, diverse, but not conflicting sovereignties. There are few Americans who are so well posted in the history of this country as yourself, while there is scarcely any one in England who seems to have any intelligent knowledge of it. Almost all your writers and public speakers are ever blundering in regard to the constitutional powers of the American Government, as such, and those pertaining to the States, in their separate capacity. Mr. Bright, in his masterly speech at Rochdale, evinced a power of analysis and correct generalization worthy of the highest praise; and has secured for himself the thanks and admiration of every true friend of free institutions. His case is as exceptional, however, as it is creditable. I am sure that you, my dear friend, will not deem it presumption when I say, that of all persons, the Abolitionists are most capable of understanding the rise, progress and tendency of the present struggle in this country, and the least liable to be jaundiced in vision or biased in judgment. For more than thirty years they have been tried and tempted in every conceivable manner; yet they have stood firm and unyielding. Lifted infinitely above all sectional considerations and selfish aims-dead to all partisan appeals-in conflict with Church and State, because of their complicity with slavery waiving in many instances the exercise of the elective franchise, for conscience' sake-and world-wide in the doctrines they inculcate and the spirit they breath-their position is one of the highest moral elevation, enabling them to retain uncommon clearness of vision, and to exhibit rare integrity of character. As they have never cherished towards the South any other feelings than those of good will, notwithstanding her brutal and murderous spirit towards them, they cannot be justly suspected of being swayed by popular feeling at the present time. In the midst of unparalleled excitement, they are calm and steadfast; still pursuing their glorious object, without turning to the right hand or to the left; still bearing such testimonies as the times demand; still speaking the truth "without concealment and without compromise"; still "rightly dividing the word," and making the freedom of the slave the paramount object of their regard. Yet-strange to say- their consistency, in some instances almost their integrity, has been called in question by their English anti-slavery friends, who assume to understand matter then those of us who are on the ground, and whose knowledge of men and things, and of the growth of public sentiment and the causes of this rebellion, is equally, comprehensive and absolute. 
If you will turn to the fourth page of the present number of the fourth page of the present number of the Liberator, you will see specimens of numerous letters that have been received by various persons from these excellent, beloved, well-meaning, but thoroughly confused English friends. The first writer takes the preposterous ground that "the North [meaning the American Government] has no more right to control the South than Austria has to control Hungary, or Russia Poland"! He insists that "the North is simply fighting for empire," but that it would have made no difference, in his estimation, "even if the policy of the North had been to extinguish slavery"! To cap the climax of his infatuation, he declares, "Every lover of liberty(!) whose personal feelings do not warp his judgment, will wish success to the South at this present crisis"! Was there ever greater incoherency of speech than this? Nay, he sweepingly declares, "All charges of treason and conspiracy and robbery mean nothing but the expression of revengeful feelings or disappointed ambition"! But, even assuming the truth of them all, he affirms that they are all "perfectly justified as against the North, by the present attitude and behavior of the North itself"! He even proceeds to justify the atrocious robberies perpetrated by the South by pleading, "If the South had not availed itself of the opportunities(!) of arming itself, &c. &., where would it have been now, in the face of the overwhelming power of the North?" As if that "overwhelming power" would have been called into action, had not the South, while professing allegiance to the Government, treacherously seized the national arsenals, armories, navy-yards, fortifications, &c., to carry on its treasonable work, and to enable it to seize the very Capital itself as the seat of its dominion!
I have seen no positions more absurd, no sentiments more revolting, in any of the Southern journals, than these. One this subject, our worthy friend is clearly demented. Yet, with singular complacency, he "wants the Abolitionists of America to take a broader and wider and deeper view of this subject than they have done"-so broad and wise and deep that they will see in Jeff. Davis the incarnation of the spirit of outraged liberty, and in Southern treason an exhibition of the purest patriotism! He thought they were "universal men," but to his great grief he finds "they have nearly all sunk from this sublime height to the level of Americans"-"they have fallen from that lofty and majestic eminence on which they stood, into a position in which they stand little higher, at
<c04>
the best, and in some respects lower, than the community around them"! Our reproving friend says he is "frank and outspoken," but his assertions and impeachments are none the less astounding. I deny their truthfulness, while I am sure he has spoken his sincere convictions, and I honor him for keeping nothing concealed. He is simply laboring under a strange hallucination of mind, which it is to be hoped will soon disappear; for it is causing him "to call good evil, and evil good, and to put light for darkness, and darkness for light."
Whether the Southern rebellion be viewed from a Governmental or a Abolition stand-point, it presents no feature which is not abhorrent to reason, justice and humanity; and the sternest condemnation of an indignant universe should be meted out of those who concocted it.
First-as to the Government. It is based upon the doctrine, that the people have a right to choose their own rulers, and to the governed by their own laws, in accordance with the Constitution of their adoption. At the last Presidential election, the slave oligarchy failed for the first time to carry their point, and the free States triumphed in the election of Abraham Lincoln. Without waiting for his inauguration, five of the slave States rose in rebellion, organized a hostile confederacy, and endeavored to seize the national capital. Six more slave States were added to the number in the course of a few months, and, combined, they aimed at the subjugation of the whole country to their bloody sway. Perjury, lynch law, robbery on a gigantic scale, piracy on the high seas, treason of the blackest dye, marked their entire career. They fired upon the national flag, captured Fort Sumter, drove out every vestige of governmental authority from their dominions, proclaimed themselves independent, declared adhesion to the old Union punishable with outlawry, imprisonment or death, and committed atrocities of the most revolting character upon those who refused to betray their country. It was not an oppressed people rising up in defence of their rights, or the overthrow a tyrannical dynasty, but a desperate man-stealing oligarchy bent upon the extinction of free institutions universally. Any attempt to make their case analogous to that of our revolutionary fathers, or to find their justification in the doctrines laid down in the Declaration of Independence, is not only futile, but an insult to the memories of the signers of that great charter of human rights. There is nothing to warrant it. The rebels had suffered no oppression, and were threatened with no injustice: on the contrary, they had always shaped the policy of the country, and had their own way. Mr. Lincoln was elected to the Presidency as constitutionally as was Washington, Adams, or Jefferson; the Constitution he was sworn to uphold in its integrity was unchanged in letter or spirit; a Kentuckian by birth, and no Abolitionist, his natural tendency was to desire to propitiate the South, even to a humiliating degree. Neither he, nor the party by whom he was chosen, had any more thought or intention of interfering with the "peculiar institution" of the South, than of annexing the United States to Great Britain or Austria. Besides, even if the new Administration had been inclined to transcend its rightful authority, adverse to Southern interests, it was powerless to do so; for the Supreme Court was thoroughly pro-slavery as then (and even now) constituted, and the Democratic party held the mastery in both house of Congress, at the very time the rebellion took place; so that no action, detrimental to the South, could have obtained any legislative or judicial sanction whatever. Mr. Lincoln, had it not been for the treasonable withdrawal of the slave States, would have been wholly at the mercy of his political opponents in the formation of his Cabinet, in all his official appointment, and in determining the character of his measures: he could have been check-mated in every direction. On no recognized theory of government-much less that of democratic equality-could they be justified in throwing off their allegiance, and making war upon that Union in which they had always had the lion's share of honor, emolument, office, power and protection; or in trampling upon that Constitution which was originally made as dictated by themselves, and to the maintenance of which their faith stood plighted before the world. But, without the shadow of an excuse, they perfidiously banded together, in a treasonable manner, for the most iniquitous purposes; resorting to every villanous expedient to consummate their diabolical object; and they have ever since been menacing with their forces the very seat of Government itself. Their avowed object was and is the boundless extension and absolute perpetuity of their accursed slave system, which they have made the corner-stone of their confederacy. They openly deny and deride the glorious self-evident truths embodied in the Declaration of Independence; they avow their detestation of the doctrine of popular sovereignty, as fraught with all conceivable mischief; and they pronounce "free society" at the North, and throughout the world, an utter failure.
Under these circumstances, my dear friend, is it not astounding that any on your side of the Atlantic, claiming to be governed by the principles of honor, the dictates of morality, and the feelings of humanity,-especially; in the 
Anti-Slavery ranks,-should be so bewildered in judgment, or so jaundiced in vision, as to regard the South in the attitude of Hungary to Austria, or Poland to Russia ?-should vindicate her right to withdraw as she has done, and arraign the Government as tyrannical in endeavoring to crush her foul conspiracy against God and man?-or, at least, should avow that, as between the contending parties, there is little or nothing to choose, "being six on one side, and half a dozen on the other"-and where they utter one rebuke of the doings of the slaveholding banditti, give vent to a score of bitter denunciations of the American government, because it is not willing to fall down, and let bloody treason flourish over it"? Such conduct is quite inexplicable, and extorts the exclamation-
"O judgment, thou art fled to brutish beasts, And men have lost their reason!"
The charge is cruelly false, that the Government "is simply fighting for empire." It is acting, not aggressively but in self-defence, without malice or passion, having first allowed itself to be driven to the wall, by a mistaken and dangerous forbearance, as no other strong Government over yet did. It is contending, not for "empire" in itself considered, but for its right to exist over the territory embraced by the republic, with those limitations and prerogatives which are so carefully defined by the Constitution for the promotion of the general welfare, and for the common defence. It is a renewal of the old revolutionary struggle to vindicate the right of THE PEOPLE to form and administer their own government, but against a despotism incomparably more to be feared and abhorred then was that of the mother country in "the times that tried men's souls." Mr. Lincoln, as the legitimate President of the United States, had no alternative but to proceed, with all the forces at his command, to put down the rebellion; and had he not done so, he would have been guilty of perjury, and a traitor to the Government he was elected by the people to uphold.
You perceive, therefore, as between the rebels and the Government, that the American Abolitionists could not but give their sympathy and support to the latter, as wholly innocent of any wrong to the South, either inflicted or premeditated; and that, in so doing, they have not compromised their principles, nor turned aside a hair's breadth from their well-defined course. Whatever may be the issue they now take with the Government, it is not as to its entire rectitude in its treatment of the Southern Slaveholding rebellion, viewed from the stand-point of constitutional authority and obligation. Upon that issue, whether as American citizens, or a impartial umpires between contending parties where the most momentous interests are a stake, they have no difficulty in rendering a decisive verdict in favor of the Government.
I will address you again on this subject.
Your fellow-laborer in the cause of universal freedom,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
<c05>
THE COOPER INSTITUTE SPEECH.
AUBURN, (N. H.,) Jan. 29, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-I desire to express my thanks for your speech at New York, and its publication in the Liberator. It is so noble, so true, and so appropriate to the time, it is refreshing to read it. But for a mere expression of gratitude, I would not trouble you with a letter. The speech ought, by all means, to be printed in pamphlet form, (1) and sown broadcast. The public mind is in a transition state, and the speech is just what is needed to give or keep it is a right direction. My estimate of the real, fixed and determined moral principle of the people of the loyal States is very low. I am strongly inclined to the opinion, that, had it been believed that the South was in earnest, and that they would and could have shown so much fight as they have done, there would have been no Bell-Everett, Douglas, or Republican party; that, to preserve peace, everything would have been yielded, and Breckinridge elected. And now, if Mr. Lincoln could, by any possibility, succeed in his most cherished desires, and suppress the rebellion -leave slavery safe, and restore the supremacy of the Constitution-a very large majority of those who are in favor of emancipation as a war measure (not the Abolitionists, of course,) would be in favor of such a peace, and of conciliation- would be ready to pay for the contrabands, and be willing that the compromises of "our glorious Constitution" should be carried out "in the fullness of their spirit and exactness of their letter," and "with alacrity." My hope is more in the perversity of the South and an overruling Providence, than in any virtue of the North.
If such a state of things could be brought about, the Boston Post and Courier, the New York Herald, Journal of Commerce, and Observer would be at the top of the tide. But there must be some moral perception; and it seems to me that everything which you have set forth sin your speech is so plain and cogent, that even a clergyman must have some perception of it.
Read the second Psalm. Have not our Government, parties and churches endeavored to break his bands asunder? Have they not looked at their own harmony and peace more than to justice and right? And these compromising means to secure their peace have produced division, and the "dashing" is now likely to be fulfilled on the Government.
But God reigns, and His plan is a comprehensive one, and He will not be defeated; and whatever may be the result in our eyes, even though the nation should utterly perish, it will be one step onward in the progress of the universe, as the destruction in geological periods of the earth has prepared for a higher development.(Ps. 106.)
But if such destruction is to come, may it be seen that I am not implicated, but have done my duty, warning the nation of its errors and dangers.
Please accept for yourself and family assurances of respect and esteem, with the ardent desire that you may live in the flesh to join in the great jubilee. 
BENJAMIN CHASE.
(1) This lecture (as well as the one delivered at the saine place by Wendell Phillips, Esq.) has already been issued in the form desired by our esteemed correspondent. It constitutes No. 26 of the valuable Series of Sermons, Orations, Popular Lectures, &c., published in "THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM," by E. D. Barker, 135 Grand Street, New York. It is a very handsomely printed pamphlet, with covers-price 10 cents a number, or 5 cents by the hundred. These can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street. Who, regarding the lecture as timely and serviceable, will encourage the publisher by ordering one or more hundreds, either for sale or for gratuitous distribution?-[Ed. Lib.
PETTITION TO THE LEGISLATURE OF NEW YORK.
DEAR MR. GARRISON: The attention of your readers, in the State of New York, is invited to the following Petition, designed for immediate circulation, and to be early forwarded to the Legislature now in session at Albany:-
PETITION.
To the Senate and Assembly of the State of New York:
The undersigned, citizens and inhabitants of State of New York, believing SLAVERY to be the great cause of our present national calamities, earnestly desire you to instruct the Senators and request the Representatives in Congress, from this State, to immediately institute measures for the abolition of Slavery under the War Power. 
By the voluntary action of rebel slaveholders, the Federal Government is in no sense longer bound to extend its protection over the institution of slavery. The seceded States have defiantly repudiated the authority of the Federal Government, forfeiting all claims to constitutional protection. In the nominally loyal slave States-loyal only to the extent that they have been occupied by Federal troops-as a judicious war measure, slavery may and should be unconditionally abolished.
No time should be lost in securing such emphatic expression from the Northern State Legislatures, and from the people, by petition, as will cause Congress to improve the glorious, providential opportunity now at hand for emancipating four millions of slaves. Thus, and only thus, the primary cause of war having been removed, and justice having been done, will be possible an era of enduring prosperity, and an abiding peace.
AARON M POWELL.
Ghent, (N. Y.) Feb.13, 1862.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Have you read "John Brent," by the late Major Winthrop? If you have not, you have a great treat in store. The moral stand-point of the author is elevated, and the glow of genius is on every page. The book is wonderfully alive. It exhilarated me, like riding in a bracing atmosphere, through beautiful scenery, on the handsome, high-spirited horse he describes so admirably.
Alas, that so much of life should have been extinguished by the bloody hand of Slavery! Noble young Winthrop! He was just the one to leap, in full armor, into an abyss to save his country. Richly endowed and highly cultured as he was, his sympathies were spontaneously given to the degraded and the oppressed. One of his friends, writing to me, says: "Before Theodore Winthrop had been a week at Fortress Monroe, he wrote to me that there were 100 slaves there, and that there would soon be 1000. He begged of me to ask the ladies to furnish clothing for them, that it might make them more self-respecting and more respected. I think he was the first man who cared for these poor fugitives." L. M. C.
A TRAITOROUS DEMOCRAT CRYING OUT AGAINST TREASON! In accordance with an invitation extended to us, we last week gave a lecture upon the state of the country, in Washington Hall at Greenfield. In what manner we were heralded may be seen by referring to the scurrilous article which we have placed in its appropriate department on our first page, from the Greenfield Democrat-a sheet habitually unclean and traitorous to the cause of freedom, under the mask of loyalty assiduously doing the dirty work of the Southern rebels to the extent of its feeble ability and beggarly circulation. Its design was manifestly to create a mobocratic outbreak, but we never held a more orderly meeting, and the approval of our sentiments by the highly intelligent and respectable audience was worm and frequent-particularly when we applied the lash to our skulking and cowardly assailant. Of course, he was villanously careful not to state our present position as heartily with the Government, and on what moral grounds we formerly "denounced the Constitution of the United States"- for, had he done so, his tirade would have been as ridiculous as it proved important. In a subsequent number of the Democrat, the worthless creature renews his slimy assault: it is his vocation. May be learn to be decent, and abandon his political knavery!
<c06>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH; or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By E. WINCHESTER REYNOLDS, Author of the "records of Bubbleton Parish," &c. &c. Boston: Walker, Wise & co., 245 Washington Street 1862.
This is an elaborately prepared and admirably comprehensive work, showing the various phases of the Slavery Question from the revolutionary struggle of 1776 to the present time, and the manner in which the Southern slave oligarchy have continued to rule the country. It occupies only 210 duodecimo pages, which embody a large amount of information closely condensed, and is written in a style peculiarly terse and clear. It contains a highly commendatory "Introduction," from the pen of Rev. Samuel J. May. of Syracuse, who advised its publication. Its author dedicates it as follows:-
"To the just men and women of my country, who, loyal to liberty in its darkest hour, have sought the true glory of the republic, by vindicating the right of humanity in the persons of the lowliest in the land; and who see, beyond the carnival of battle, a race redeemed, and a nation renovated, I inscribe this Essay, with grateful remembrance of their services, and profound respect form their virtues."
Let all such, as for as practicable, endeavor to procure copies of the work-(price 75cents) We give below the table of contents entire, and shall make some extracts from the work in another number:-
PART I.
OUR TWO SYSTEMS OF SOCIETY.
I. Nature of the Conflict.
II. The Germ of the Conflict.-The Barons espouse Slavery.
III. Status of Slavery in the Republic.
IV. The prospects of the Barons.
v. Prestige of the Barons.-Omens.-The ship Empire launched. 
PART II.
OUR POLITICAL APOSTACT.
I. The Process.-The Capital Infected.
II. Territorial Extension of Slavery.
III. Slave Representation.
IV. Slavery construing the Constitution.
V. Slavery in the Supreme Court.
VI. Slavery subduing the Church.
VII. Apparent Triumph of the Despotic System.
PART III.
OUR POLITICAL REGENERATION.
I. The Dawn of Reform.
II. Why the Reform was resisted.
III. The Vanguard of Liberty. 
IV. Organization and Opposition. 
V. The Opposition by Mobs.
VI. Subserviency of the North.
VII. The Opposition by States.
VIII. The Opposition by the Federal Power.
IX. Final Struggle and triumphant assertion of Freedom in the North.
X. New Political organization.-The Republican Party.
XI. Considerations.
PART IV.
THE REBELLION OF THE BARONS.
I. The Plot of Aaron Burr.
II. The Image of a Southern Empire.-Nullification.
III. Peculiar Social System of the South-The rebellion the logical Result.
IV. The Ripening of the Treason.
V. Final Organization of the Plot in Mr. Buchanan's Cabinet.
VI. The Drama of Insurrection.
VII. The Agony of Compromise.
VIII. The Rival Administrations inaugurated in the dismembered Republic.
IX. Compromise ends, and the New Era begins.
PART V.
THE PROVIDENTIAL ALTERNATIVE.
I. Gloomy Aspects of the struggle.
II. The Rebellion Vulnerable through Slavery.
III. Impracticable Policy of the Government.-Protecting Slavery at the Expense of the Union.-Destroying the Nation to save its Constitution.
IV. The Programme of the President, and the Lesson of Events. 
V. Must the Nation die, that the Barons may wield the Whip?
VI. The War degraded in the Interest of Slavery. 
VII. God's Ultimatum.
VIII. A New Policy Imperative.
IX. Providential Doom of the Barons.
X. Theseus and the Minotaur.-Lesson of the Epoch.
The continental Monthly: devoted to Literature and National Policy. Boston: J. R. Gilmore, 110 Tremont street, Crosby and Nichols, 117 Washington street. 
The first three numbers of this able publication contain, respectively, the following articles:-
N. I. JANUARY, 1862:
The Situation; Is Progress a Truth; The Edwards Family; Sonnet; The Green Corn Dance; Rosin the Bow; The Graveyard at Princeton; Among the Pines; The Lessons of Ware; Ralph Waldo Emerson; Sphinx and CEdipus; The Actress-Wife; Sound of Freedom; Across the Continent; What to do with the Darkies; The Slave Trade in New York; Literary Notices; Books Received; Editor's Table.
No. II. FEBRUARY, 1862:
Our War and our Want; Brown's Lecture Tour- by a Lecturer; The Watchword-poetry; Tints and Tones of Paris; The True Basis; The Black Flag-poetry; The Actress-Wife; Self-Reliance-poetry; The Huguenot Families in America; The black Witch; Freedom's Stars-Poetry; One the Plains; Seven Devils; What will you do with us; James Russell Mr. Seward's Published Diplomacy; To England-poetry; The Heir of Roseton; Our Danger and its Cause; She Sits Alone-poetry; Literary Notices; Editor's Table.
No. III. March,1862:-
Southern Aids to the North C. G. Leland; Is Cotton our King? by Edward Atkinson, author of the valuable pamphlet entitled "Cheap Cotton by Free Labor;" General Patterson's Campaign in Virginia; Jonathan Edwards and the Old Clergy, by Rev. W. Frothingham; One of My Predecessors, by Bayard Taylor; The later Lord Chancellor Campbell; The Good Wife, a Norwegian Story; The Hugue not Families in America, by Hon. G. P. Disosway; Maccaroni and Canvas, by H. P Leland; John Lothrop Motley, by Delia L. Colton; Among the Pines, by the author of "The Cotton States;" Active Service, or Campaigning in Western Virginia; Poetry, Editor's Table, Notices, &c.
The Continental Monthly gives us articles of due variety, of great ability, and, in many respects, of distinguished merit. It reports a list of writers already so favorably known to the public as to justify high expectations in regard to the future; and rumor states that subscribers to it have already appeared in large numbers.
One conspicuous feature of this magazine is a hearty and thorough-going opposition to slavery. It urges, in the strongest terms, the immediate and unconditional emancipation of all slaves, as a vital part of the war policy of the North. It insists on the utter extermination of slavery, as our only security for a prosperous future, and follows up this point with an array of fact and argument not only convincing, but impregnable. Its editor, however, and most of its contributors who touch on this subject, object to slavery only as a nuisance, not as a sin; only because it injures the white, not because it oppresses and degrades the black. It takes the ground of contemptuous indifference towards the negro race, and proposes to colonize them out of the way when the rebellion shall have been quelled.
The War, and How to End It. By Wm. N. Slocum, late Editor of the Sam Jose Mercury. San Francisco, 1861.-pp.38.
The contents of this vigorous and excellent pamphlet (extracts from the second edition of which were given in last week's Liberator) are as follows:-
I. Results of Emancipation in the West Indies;
II. Abolition of Slavery as a War Measure; III. Necessity of Congressional Action on the subject
IV. Schemes for Colonization; V. Final Emancipation inevitable; Vi. Present Prospect of our Foreign Relations; VII. Political and Commercial Changes to follow the War.
APPENDIX, containing Facts and Arguments concerning the Cause of the Florida War; Massacres in St. Domingo; Abolition not the Cause of the Extension of Slavery; An Aristocracy of Office-holders; Reasons for a restriction of the Elective Franchise.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GERRIT SMITH AND ENGLAND.
In the Liberator of February 14th, I have just read a letter from the highly respected and talented GERRIT SMITH, to the eloquent philanthropist GEORGE THOMPSON of England; and perceiving in it a very pernicious tendency, of which the writer was doubtless unaware, I cannot refrain from a comment upon it. which I would respectfully submit to his consideration.
After commending Mr. Thompson, that he had employed his "rich and commanding eloquence to prevent England from making war upon America," he says-"I hope you will now employ it to prevent America from making war upon England." This is an event which be seems to fear, and indeed to expect, and is also one which, like every other Christian patriot be is anxious to avert; and yet this letter, written with his usual ability and earnestness, has as great a tendency to produce this very dreadful evil, as any thing be could have written; and hence it becomes especially necessary that the argument contained in it having this tendency should be controverted.
A great portion of the letter is employed in endeavors to depreciate the magnanimity or sense of justice, in that rendition of Mason and Slidell to the British government; and to represent it only as the result of hear and a dishonorable concession of principles we should assert as a right; and, of course, disallows the sincerity of the reasons given by Mr. Seward to Lord Lyons for the act, as well as the arguments presented by Mr. Sumner in its defence Now it is obvious, that this is touching the feelings of the American people in a very sensitive point. Could Mr. Smith succeed in convincing the citizens of the North, that the restoration of the confederate Commissioners was an act of disgraceful timidity yielded by our Government to threats, or in fear of the power of Great Britain, their angry <illegible> would be irrepressible. Not only would they lose all confidence in an Administration which thus betrayed them, but to wipe off the supposed deprecate and avert would be produced by his own demonstrations.
But this letter has a further mischievous tendency to produce war with England, not only by the impression <illegible> the American people, that their honor has been surrendered but also by the irritation to be produced in the English people and government by the charges of found dishonor and aggression made in it, while professing to love them; which are adapted to counteract all the endeavors for conciliation, so fully credited to Mr. Thompson.
Mr. S. does indeed give credit to England for the compensated emancipation of her slaves-for this is conformable to his own hobby; and he sympathizes with her reconquest of India, as it accords with those <illegible> of coerced allegiance ever assumed by European governments, and now claimed for our own, in contradiction to the declared principles on which it is built. But he sees only hostility in the impartial attitude, he twists into a charge of partiality for the south. He charges, as a violation of neutrality, the transportation of non-combatant persons, on a mission of peaceful mediation, form one neutral port to another in a neutral ship; forgetting the number of American ships employed in carrying English and French soldiers to the Crimea, of which Russia never complained: and he calls it a declaration of war "on the part of Britain, that she should sent troops and national ships to her own provinces." These are precisely the sort of accusations that would be made by a nation determined to pick a quarrel with another; and when he asks if it is strange "that his countrymen should have this stinging sense" of such alleged wrongs, can he not see that it is he himself who gives the sting, to produce the excitement which will neutralize the pacific efforts of Mr. Thompson? Should America declare war against England, as Mr. S. predicts, he will be entitled to great credit for his aid in its production.
It is not in a spirit of <illegible> criticism, or with a desire to depreciate the character or impair the influence of Mr. Smith, that I make these remarks; on the contrary, his unhappy lapse into the pernicious delusions of the day does not in the least diminish the admiration I have ever cherished for his talents and independence; the gratitude for his unselfish generosity; the sympathy with his boundless philanthropy and spirit of reform. It is more in sorrow than in reproof, more in alarm than in correction, that I make these expositions. Inconsistency, in a man of his estimation, will be overlooked by his admirers; and the most fallacious side of it will be adopted and acted on, if accordant with previous desire, to ruinous results.
I have said "inconsistency." Mr. S. says-"That I should be opposed to the war, and yet be in sympathy with our large Northern armies, may possibly be an inconsistency." Friend S., if your enlightened conscience and strong reasoning power had been allowed fair play, this "may possibly be," would have been changed to "certainly is." How is this inconsistency attempted to be avoided? "Believing, as I have ever done, in the duty of Government to control its subjects, I am conscious of no inconsistency between my opposition to war and my sympathy with armies, however large, if their sole object is the quelling of domestic insurrections." The mustering of armies, fighting battles, attacking fortresses, &c., are war, by every sound definition and common parlance; and when between two portions of the same nation, it is usually termed "civil war" If Mr. S., then, is opposed to all war, he can only sympathize with "our large Northern armies" by shutting his eyes, and <illegible> that they are engaged in any war at all; and if he can find, in the New Testament, and express <illegible> from the injunction to love his enemies, and return good for evil, in the case of a rebellion, he may likewise be conscious of no inconsistency with Christianity.
But, however Mr. Smith may reconcile the approval of the present war with peace principles or Christianity, under the subterfuge that it is merely a suppression of rebellion, and not a real war, he can not justly complain of the British Government and people for their impartial neutrality, and resistance of our violation of it, until they can be brought to take the same view as he does. Judging of the nature of our Government, as they have a right to do, form the professions we have ever made before the world of a Government derived from the people, and held only by their consent, as solemnly declared in the Declaration of Independence, the nations of Europe have watched with intense anxiety the trial of this principle; the success of which the people have prayed for and the <illegible> have feared. For seventy years, it seemed to be in successful experiment; and is it wonderful now, when it is brought to its severest trial, it cannot be understood why, without victory or defeat, it should be suddenly abandoned, and involuntary allegiance of one portion of the nation to another <illegible> on the European principle of the inherent prerogatives of Government,-the principle by which Russia subjects Poland, and Austria Hungary, to their sway." It cannot be expected that the people of other nations can understand the American paradox of a free Government, sustained by military coercion, and especially that distinctly organized portions of a nation, which have never resigned the whole of their sovereignty should, on secession, be held and called rebellious. Whether such secession is right or wrong, when it is so far accomplished as to produce a powerful Confederacy, comprising a third of the population and a half of the extent of the original nation, executing all its own laws without foreign control, and defending itself by a military force which keeps at bay the claiming Government for months, to deny its de fade independence, and call it a rebellion, is not only a manifest falsity, but a ludicrous chimera.
Europe, then, cannot participate in the martial infatuation of America; and, seeing in the Southern Confederacy no other than a distinct Sovereign Government, for the time, is bound by the settled law of <illegible> and even American practice, to recognize
<c02>
that independence. And the attitude of refraining from doing so, and the use of the more dubious term "belligerent," should be regarded as a friendly relaxation of international law, in favor of the Northern Government; and not abused as an indication of hostility. But Mr. S. assumes that the people of Great Britain must agree with us, that this is a mere rebellion; and the whole argument in his letter, so far as it inculpates that people, is built on that assumption. Nor have they yet seen that this war is for the abolition of slavery, and cannot, therefore, be expected to sympathize with our prosecution of it on that ground. This, however, I am glad to see Mr. Smith admits, at the close of his letter: it is an indifference on their part, of which be acknowledges he cannot justly complain. 
Every American, blest with common sense, rejoices that the affair of the Trent was settled on American Principles; but Mr. S. says "that America has no maritime principles." How so? Because concession on those supposed principles, in this case, was compelled. Indeed! Many persons would be obliged as surprised if so acute a logician as Mr. S. Would favor them with a demonstration, that a true principle ceases to be any principle at all, whenever its admission is in any case compelled.  J. P. B.
OUR DUTIES TO THE SLAVE.
Individuals or even companies of men pass for little in times like these. A day now counts for weeks. Events come thronging upon us so thick and fast from such unexpected sources, that no mind can discern their foreshadowing results. The persistent and guilty inversion of right principles has by degrees plunged our country into a struggle most desperate and sadly solemn; and no man among the wisest can tell how much suffering is yet in store for us, before we shall be willing to accord to all others such rights as we rigidly claim for ourselves.
The poor unoffending African, and the treatment he has received at the hands of this nation, lie at the bottom, and are the cause, both remote and immediate, of all our woes. The many, many years of the unhallowed connection between the African and Caucasian on this continent, is yielding up its bitter fruits. War, "grim-visaged" war, with its dread implements of destruction, is now full upon us-the chosen arbiter of the great dispute. It would be useless to allege that this might have been averted by listening to the voice of reason and conscience. Wise men and foolish had in vain warned the country of the danger; but, ignorant and unscrupulous majorities chose to smother conscience for pelf, and in selfish cowardice visit their iniquity "upon the third and fourth generations." 
The past justly yokes together both North and South as principals in the great social and political abuse. This we all know when freed from prejudice. In our purse-pride or egotism we either deny it, or fail to see any cause or object in the events which we shall sooner or later have cause to deplore. Unjust as has been the English press towards us, however much it may side with English conservatism, there is also much that pictures faithfully what all honest Englishmen see, that here on this side of the Atlantic is a great nation deserving praise for growth in all that pertains to material prosperity, and for much that adorns and ennobles morally and intellectually; but, by its organic law, the Government and people under it are held to the support, tied up and committed to a social and political crime unsurpassed in magnitude in any age or nation; and all this in the sacred name of freedom. They see us, after many years of schooling under the auspices of a dominant and unscrupulous political power, pledged to the belief that the Constitution under which we live is little less worthy our veneration than the Maker of the Universe; while they and we know that when interpreted away from the influence of this political power in the light of history and reason, in the stern and ever-reliable interest of common sense, its authors meant it and so framed it, that, long before the year of our Lord eighteen hundred sixty-two, it should be henceforth and forever purged from the stain of slavery. These honest Englishmen see, and so do we all of us who have not owl's eyes in our heads, that from the date of the first cotton crop to this hour, a mighty, and as wicked as mighty Slave Power, through long years of sleepless activity, has sought the overthrow of this Constitution, while it has prated to us, and the greatest among us at the North, of its purity and sacredness. But for this infernal school of politics, its insidious and crafty corrupter of pulpits and seminaries of learning through these many years of its intense labor, we should long since have unloosed the shackles of the slave. The truth is, we are not a free people in the sense of many of the noble founders of this republic. For considerations of gain and political power, North and South, by complicity and directly, we have been cruelly unjust to what we deem our inferiors. And if England, a monarchy, has been overbearing and cruel to weaker nations, so also have we, a republic. The form of government or politics is no indication, in either case, of the presence or absence of justice.
In the eyes of the civilized world, this people, to whom all others have a right to look for the best examples of good government, honor and humanity, presents to-day a dark record of the absence of these essential features. And it is beginning to be more and more evident, that so unobservant had we become of the plainest principles of right and honor, that nothing short of a revolution through which we are now passing could bring us to see ourselves as we are see. The first step to extrication from our troubles lies in seeing and in heartily acknowledging our great injustice to the slave. If our national sufferings bring us to this point, the day of our deliverance will soon draw nigh. But if we artfully dodge this momentous question, and continue to couch the dodge in phrases so fraught with selfishness as that of "military necessity," now that Divine Providence seems to open before us this golden opportunity to perform a long sought act of justice, then, if it be done in spite of us, with or without our instrumentality, and against our will, in all time to come we shall deserve only the name and the brand of cowards.
If the country is to be saved, we must in all cases be willing to do ample justice. Not only must the slave be liberated, but generous as well as suitable provision must be made, in consonance with his wishes, too, for his future home. If his freedom is effected by the violence of war, our dealings with him afterward should be especially tender. If there is a human being on this continent deserving of our warmest sympathies, it is this poor, down-trodden brother. Whether the country is ready for this unquestioned act of justice cannot be so well discerned through the conflicting political elements. That we shall never prosper as a people till this great work be done, and done heartily and thoroughly, is most certain. Should it take place while yet in our power to direct it, then war will cease in our borders. We shall regain our long-lost self-estimation, and the civilized world will cheerfully welcome us to the circle of the nations. Then shall the oppressed once more find it, in a dearer sense than ever, a land of the brave and free.
MR. PILLSURY AT SPRINGFIELD. An esteemed correspondent at Springfield writes as follows:-
"Our friend Parker Pillsbury had a very attentive audience on Sunday evening last, of about three hundred, at Music Hall; to whom he gave a very solemn, impressive and philosophical discourse on the moral and religious aspects of our momentous national crisis. I never heard him before when he seemed to make such a deep and salutary impression. He showed most clearly, to all who had ears to hear and eyes to see, that moral wrong, whether done by the individual, or framed into the form of law by that aggregate of individuals called the State, was sure to draw after it retributive results, terrible in their nature, according to the flagrancy and turpitude of the wrong committed; and he made his hearers feel it."
<c03>
ANTI-SLAVERY LABORS IN ILLINOIS.
ALBANY, Feb. 12, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-The following extracts of a letter from our excellent coadjutor, Mr. Edwin R. Brown of Illinois, may interest your readers. Since the suspension of the Anti-Slavery Bugle, the Western Abolitionists and the agents there have no journal through which to communicate, except the Standard and Liberator.
Though the tone of the political press at the West is much higher and truer than the Eastern, whatever may be said of the public sentiment and feeling, still, in prejudice against color, and some other pro-slavery manifestations, nothing in their behalf can be boasted. And so our few noble friends there have yet a mighty work on their hand; and I desire to bespeak for them every encouragement.
Very sincerely yours,
PARKER PILLSBURY.
"You will see by my bill how much of the time I have worked 'with and for' you, since I wrote last. Except in one or two instances, I have had full houses, and always a good degree of interest has been manifest. At two places, I met violent opposition. When I spoke in one town last winter, a number of 'the faithful' pledged themselves never to permit another Abolition meeting to be held there, and gave me fair warning. A short time since, however, I went, having been invited to do so by the friends. I had just begun my lecture, when fourteen rowdies came in, in a body, led on by a rabid old blackguard of 70 years,- a man of property, if not of standing. I smelt whiskey and 'rat' at once. He called on his men to 'sail in'; the intention being to put me out of the house; but they were met by a larger number, who were for fair play, and a storm of words and threats raged for half an hour, while I stood quietly waiting the issue. The mobites were at last squelched, and I finished my lecture in comparative quiet.
The same gang followed on, three miles, to my next meeting, on the following evening, and we had another stormy time; but I was able to go on with my speech,-a Democrat standing at one side of the desk and an Abolitionist at the other, for my protection.
The same day, while showing the petition for emancipation to a company of threshers, a man came at me with a pitchfork, and the look of a fiend; but as I only laughed at him, he went back to his place.
With these exceptions, I have had good order, and sometimes the unanimous amen of the hearers. But I will not trouble you farther with incidents. Your experience will suggest most of them.
Last Sunday, I discoursed at the funeral of the daughter of a stanch old Anti-Slavery friend, in this town. A large audience was present.
How is the idea of compulsory colonization received in the East? To me, it seems the sublime of meanness. I see nothing in our papers in relation to it. Here, our emancipationists are generally preaching expatriation as a necessary consequence. The quality of our Anti-Slavery is not equal to the quantity. Our Constitutional Convention will 'stake and rider' the Black Code which fences the negro out of Illinois.
I suppose we are 'on the eve of great events,' again. Mr. Seward says so, and he may be right. A clock with no 'works' inside is right once in the twelve hours."
GREAT VICTORIES-THE BACKBONE OF THE REBELLION BROKEN!-The last week has chronicled a succession of victories by the Federal over the rebel forces on a scale of such magnitude as to indicate a speedy termination of the struggled, by the overthrow of the Southern Confederacy. The particulars, in brief, may be found in another column; though we could occupy our entire sheet with the thrilling accounts of the various battles, all of them desperately contested, but in every instance resulting in the capture of the rebel strongholds, with thousands of prisoners, &c. &c. The intelligence has been every where received at the North with demonstrations of patriotic exultation-with illuminations, bonfires, the ringing of bells, the discharge of cannon, from Eastport to the Mississippi. In the Legislature of Massachusetts on Monday last, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That the two Houses of the General Court, on behalf of themselves and the people of the Commonwealth, present their thanks to the gallant officers, soldiers and sailors of the army and navy of the United States, on the occasion of the series of brilliant 
victories recently won by their courage and skill in the States of South Carolina, Georgia, Missouri, North Carolina, Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee.
Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be requested to order a salute to be fired in honor of the great success of the army of the Union.
HARRIET TUBMAN. A meeting was held at the Twelfth Baptist Church, in Boston, a few days before Harriet Tubman left the city, where addresses were delivered by several gentlemen, and also by the Beneficiary herself. A donation festival took place immediately after in the vestry, the pecuniary result of which was not large, as the ladies had but a short time to prepare. It is, however, hoped that on some future occasion a testimonial will be tendered, more in keeping with their appreciation of her services in the cause of emancipation. N.
DESERVED. We learn that the Union Progressive Association recently presented their President, William C. Nell, a handsome copy of Worchesters illustrated Quarto Dictionary.
Wm. C. Nell announces that the Crispus Attucks Commemoration, March 5th, will this year be observed in a novel and attractive manner. Particulars next week.
EDUCATION OF THE CONTRABANDS. A meeting of persons interested in sending teachers to the contrabands at Fortress Monroe and Port Royal was held in the rooms of the Young Men's Christian Union, Friday week, the Rev. E. E. Hale, the President of a previous meeting, in the chair. The Rev. J. M. Manning, from a committee, reported the draft of a constitution for the association proposed to be organized, substantially as follows:-
This association shall be called the "Educational Commission," and its object shall be to make all practical efforts for the social, industrious, religious and moral improvement of persons released from slavery during the present war for the Union, and for this purpose teachers will be employed, who will carry on their operations without at all interfering in the duties or routine of the military camps; and the assistance and countenance of the government is solicited in granting facilities for the transportation of supplies, for the protection of teachers, &c.
The officers of the Commission shall consist of a President. Vice Presidents, Secretary, Treasurer, and a General Committee, to be subdivided into Committees on Correspondence, Finance, Teachers, Clothing and Supplies. Any person may become a member of the Commission for 85 annually. The Committee reported the following list of names for officers:-
President, John A. Andrew; Vice Presidents, the Rev. J. M. Manning, the Rev. E. E. Hale, Dr. F. D. Huntington, the Rev. T. Thayer, the Rev. J. W. Parker, Jacob Sleeper, the Rev. J. F. Clarke; Secretary, Edward Atkinson; Treasurer, William Endicott, Jr. The Constitution was accepted.
INSTRUCTION FOR THE CONTRABANDS. On Sunday evening last, a meeting was held at the Old South Church, which was crowded in every part, in aid of the Educational Commission, a body organized for the purpose of providing teachers for persons released from slavery who may come within the lines of the armies of the United States. Addresses were made by Rev. J.M. Manning, Rev. Dr. Gannett and Rev. Dr. Kirk.
The Addresses of the different clergymen were of great power. Rev. Dr. Kirk said that he had never feared the prowess of Southern "gentlemen," as he had been much among them. Fort Henry and Roanoke Island showed that they could not face those they had affected to despise. He had not feared foreign intervention. He had feared God, because of the doubt whether this nation would recognize the manhood of the African. Mr. Kirk was of the opinion that the republic would stand up in its integrity. Rev. Dr. Gannett thought that the black man, under favoring circumstances, would equal the white in progress and civilization. Rev. Mr. Manning made a very felicitous address.
<c04>
UNION AND REBEL VICTORIES.
UNION VICTORIES, 1861.
June 2-Philippa.
June 17-Booneville.
July 5-Brier Forks, (Sigel's victory.)
July 11-Defeat of Pegram by McClellan.
July 13-Carrick's Ford, Gen. Garnett killed, rebel.
Aug. 28-Hatteras Forts.
Sept. 10-Rout of Floyd, Gauley Bridge.
Oct. 5-Second defeat of rebels at Hatteras.
Oct. 8-Santa Rosa Island.
Oct. 11-Repulse at South Pass.
Oct. 25-Charge of Fremont's Body Guard.
Oct. 27-Romney, (Kelly wounded.)
Oct. 22-Fredericktown, Missouri.
Nov. 7-Port Royal.
Dec. 13-Camp Alleghany, Virginia.
Dec. 18-1,300 rebels captured by Pope in Missouri.
Dec. 18-Dranesville.
1862.
Second Repulse at Santa Rosa.
Humphrey Marshall's rout.
Capture of rebel batteries in S. Carolina.
Mill Spring, (Zollicoffer killed.)
Fort Henry.
Roanoke Island.
Fort Donelson, (15,000 prisoners taken.)
REBEL VICTORIES, 1861.
April 12-Fort Sumter.
June 10-Big bethel.
July 21-Bull Run.
Aug. 10-Wilson's Creek, (Gen. Lyon killed.)
Sept. 20-Lexington.
Oct. 21-Massacre of Ball's Bluff.
Nov. 7-Belmont.
1862, NONE.
RECAPITULATION.
Union victories, 24; Rebel victories, 7; ratio, 3 to 1.-Boston Traveller.
A WEEK OF TRIUMPH. The week that has closed has been one of almost unalloyed triumph. We recapitulate as follows:-
1. The capture of Fort Henry.
2. The victory at Roanoke.
3. The Capture of Edenton, Elizabeth City, etc., etc.
4. The destruction of the Rebel Navy in the North Carolina waters.
5. The retreat of the Rebels from Bowling Green.
6. The capture of several prizes at sea.
7. Further advances towards Savannah.
8. The fight at Fort Donelson.
The intelligence from Europe, that the Great Powers intend to respect the Blockade, turn their backs on Privateering, and in all other respects leave us to manage the rebels in our own way.
The capture of Fort Donelson, with three rebel Generals and 15,000 prisoners, begins the present week auspiciously. Next to the capture of Roanoke Island, it is the greatest victory of the war.-lbid.
SURRENDER OF FORT DONELSON-CAP.
TURE OF GENERALS JOHNSTON AND BUCKNER, AND 15,000 PRISONERS-&c.
CHICAGO, Ill., Feb.17. The following is a special dispatch to the Times:-
Fort Donelson, Feb. 16th. Fort Donelson surrendered at daylight this morning unconditionally. We have Generals Buckner, Johnston and Buscherod, and 15,000 prisoners and 3000 horses. Generals Pillow and Floyd with their brigades ran away on steamers, without letting Buckner know their intention.
Gen. Smith led the charge on the lower end of the works, and was first inside of the fortification. The Fort Henry runaways were bagged here. The prisoners are loading on the steamers for Cairo. Our loss is heavy, probably 400 killed and 800 wounded. We lose a large per centage of officers, among them Colonels Erwin, of the 20th Illinois, white of the 31st, and smith of the 48th Illinois. Colonels John A. Logan, Sawyer and Ransom are wounded.
Major Post, of the 8th Illinois, with 200 privates, are prisoners, and have gone to Nashville, having been taken the night before the surrender.
The enemy's loss was heavy, but not so large as ours, as they fought behind intrenchments. We should have taken them by storming on Saturday, if our ammunition had not given out in the night. McClernand's division, composed of Oglesby's, Wallace's and McArthur's brigades, suffered terribly. They were composed of the 8th, 9th, 11th, 19th, 20th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 45th, 48th and 49th Illinois regiments.
Gen. Lewis Wallace, with the 11th Indiana, 8th Missouri and some Ohio regiments, participated. Taylor's, Willar's, McAlister's, Schwartz's and Decesse's batteries, were in the fight form the commencement.
On Sunday morning, the enemy were met on their approach by a white flag, Buckner having sent early in the morning a despatch to Gen. Grant surrendering.
The works of the fort extend some five miles on the outside.
The rebels lose 48 field pieces, 17 heavy guns, 20,000 stands of arms, besides large quantity of commissary stores.
The rebel troops are completely demoralized, and have no confidence in their leaders, as they charge Pillow and Floyd with desertion.
Our troops from the moment of the investment of the fort on Wednesday, lay on their arms night and day half the time without provisions, and all the time without tents. A portion of the time there was a heavy storm of rain and snow.
No officer in the army had any idea of Fort Donelson's defences until they had been gained and examined.
Several men, when out of ammunition, rushed forward, and although exposed to the full force of the rebel artillery, gallantly drove their foes back with the bayonet, and captured their guns.
The following are the names of some of the rebel officers captured: Col. Gault, Col. Voorhies, Col. Forrest, Col. Brown, and Col. Abernethy.
Some of our best officers and men have gone to their long home. Hardly a man that went over the field after the battle, but discovered some comrade who had fallen. We lost three Lieutenant-Colonels, and at least one-quarter of the other officers are wounded or killed.
The rebels had all the advantage of position, being well fortified on two hills, with their fort near the river on a lower piece of ground. From the foot of their entrenchments, rifle pits and abattis extended up the river behind the town of Dover. Their fortifications on the land side, back from the river, were at least four miles in length. Their water battery was in the centre of the fortification where it came down to the river, and mounted nine heavy guns.
The rebels were sure of success. In any other cause and against less brave troops, they could easily have held the position against 100,000 men.
The rebel Surgeons place their loss at between 300 and 400 killed, and double the number wounded.
The gunboat assault was terrific, exceeding even the Fort Henry bombardment. It lasted about an hour and a half. The enemy had fronting on the river two batteries, the lower one of nine and the upper on of four guns, besides a 10-inch columbiad. The wooden gunboats Tyler and Conestoga were engaged in the fight. Flag-officer Foote pronounced the engagement the hottest he ever witnessed.
The Memphis dispatch to the Richmond papers enumerates seven rebel steamers that were either burnt or sunk during the trip of the Federal gunboats up Tennessee river, and two that were captured. Only one rebel steamer escaped.
The New York Post sums up the results of the recent splendid victories of our troops as follows:-
We have taken, by these actions, two large divisions of the enemy's army; we hold as prisoners no less than four of their generals, a score of colonels, majors and lieutenants by the hundreds, and privates to the number of sixteen thousand at least. We have compelled the surrender of six important strategic points, possessed ourselves of vast quantities of ammunition and supplies, and driven whatever remains of the rebel army of the West entirely out of Missouri and Kentucky, and away from the sea cost of North Carolina. But the points of strategy gained by the Unionists are still more valuable than the actual gain in men and means. By the fall of Donelson the whole of Tennessee, and with Tennessee the Gulf States, is opened to the advance of our troops.
ST. LOUIS, Feb. 16. Gen. Halleck has received dispatches from Gen. Curtis, stating that Price's rear guard was overtaken in the pursuit from Springfield, and after a brief resistance the rebels fled, leaving the road strewn with their wagons and baggage. Gen. Curtis reports that he has taken more prisoners than he knows what to do with.
ST. LOUIS, Feb. 18. The following dispatch is from headquarters:-
MAJOR GENERAL McCLELLAN - The flag of the Union is floating in Arkansas. Gen. Curtis has driven Price from Missouri, and is several miles across the Arkansas line, cutting up Price's rear, and hourly capturing prisoners and stores. The army of the South West is doing its duty nobly.
(Signed) W.H. HALLECK, Major General.
CAPTURE OF GEN. PRICE AND STAFF!
WASHINGTON, War Department, Feb. 19, 1862. The following despatch was received at Headquarters today:-
"St. LOUIS, Feb. 19-10.30 A.M. To Major Gen. McClellan-Gen. Curtis has captured Gen. Price, Col. Dorsey, Col. Cass and Capt. Judge of Gen. Price's staff. (Signed,)
H. W. HALLECK, Major General."
SEDALIA, (Missouri,) Feb. 19. Brig. Gen. Edward Price, son of Gen. Sterling Price, Col. Phillips, Maj. Cross and Capt. Crosby were captured near Warsaw on Sunday night by Capt. Stubbs, of the 8th Iowa regiment, and brought in.
<c05>
CONFISCATION RESOLUTIONS IN MAINE. The attention of the Senate in the Maine Legislature was almost exclusively occupied last week with a debate on a series of resolutions relating to the confiscation of slaves. An amendment was offered, embodying the famous Crittenden resolution, passed by Congress at its extra session, to which was attached a full endorsement of the President's construction of the Constitution and his war policy. They were referred to the Committee on Federal Resolutions, where another set was presented, and reported to the Senate, and immediately passed by a vote of twenty-four to four, as follows:-
Resolved, That we cordially endorse the Administration of Abraham Lincoln in the conduct of the war against the wicked and unnatural enemies of the Republic, and that in all its measures calculated to crush this rebellion speedily and finally, the Administration is entitled to and will receive the unwavering support of the loyal people of Maine.
Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress, by such means as will not jeopard the rights and safety of the loyal people of the South, to provide for the confiscation of estates, real and personal, of rebels, and for the forfeiture and liberation of every slave claimed by any person who shall continue in arms against the authority of the United States, or who shall in any manner aid and abet the present wicked and unjustifiable rebellion.
Resolved, That in this perilous crisis of the country, it is the duty of Congress, in the exercise of its constitutional power, to "raise and support armies," to provide by law for accepting the services of able-bodied men of whatever status, and to employ them in such manner as military necessity and the safety of the Republic may demand.
CONTRABANDS IN WASHINGTON. Marshall Lamon has yielded to the orders of the Government, and issued the following order:-
"WASHINGTON, Feb. 9. 1862.
To Jailer and Guards of the Public Jail in the District of Columbia:
You will this day release from custody all persons claimed to be held to service or labor, and not charged with any crime or misdemeanor, who are now in jail, who have been there for the space of thirty days or upwards-from their arrest and commitment-and in future you will, in regard to persons claimed to service or labor, and not charged with crime or misdemeanor, govern yourself in strict accordance with the order to me as Marshal for the District of Columbia, of date January 25th, 1862, from Hon. Secretary of State.
Respectfully, WARD H. LAMON,
United States Marshal, District of Columbia."
PORT ROYAL AND THE COTTON CROP. It appears that considerable supplies of cotton may still be found on Edisto Island, if a reconnoissance in force should be mad. The negroes report that there are small quantities of cotton hidden in various localities, and small quantities of unginned are to be found in nearly all the plantations on Edisto Island. 
The despatches say it is worthy of note as indicating the changes in the blacks, that now they express themselves most anxious to obtain arms. The black man who has general superintendence of the colony wished to land his force in Rockville, and drive the rebel soldiers back, expressing the utmost confidence that with about twenty old muskets that they had picked up, many of them with flint locks, he would be able to effect his object.
THE CONTRABANDS AT PORT ROYAL., Rev. Dr. Strickland writes from Port Royal: "Extensive preparations are being made here for the accommodation of the slaves of the district. Long rows of houses, capable of containing hundreds of contrabands, have been erected west of the encampment of the provost marshal, and we infer from this that all who have been left on the islands will be sent here for safe keeping. One end of the building on the east is partitioned off for church and school purposes, having all the appointments necessary therefor."
DISREGARD OF THE CONSTITUTION. Messrs. Cobb, Toombs, Crawford and Cobb, of Georgia, in their address to the people of that State, say:-
"Our enemy has exhibited an energy, a perseverance, and an amount of resources which we hardly expected, and a disregard of Constitution and laws which we can hardly credit."
If it were not for the seriousness of the subject, it would be amusing to read a lecture from the South on the "disregard of the Constitution" exhibited by the North! Men who have spit upon the Constitution and the flag and the fame of their country, dishonored the mother who bore them, and trampled under foot the principles of the fathers of the Republic, now affect astonishment at "the disregard of the Constitution" exhibited by the North!-New York observer.
A LIE SQUELCHED. The silly story, first broached in Congress, that on the publication of Mr. Cameron's Report, five Illinois regiments laid down their arms and refused to serve their country, is without a shadow of foundation. It had its origin, as we gather from the proceedings of the House, in some random talk indulged in by the Hon. John A. Logan, which was as far from the truth as one of his speeches; and it is merciful to suppose that that gentleman was "unduly excited" when he invented a canard so prejudicial to the loyalty of his State. Illinois follows the flag, and her troops never lay down their arms!-Chicago Tribune.
LOSS OF HORSES. It is truly heart-sickening to read the account of the loss of horses sent on shipboard from Boston to Ship Island. One hundred and fifty-three horses were put on board at Boston, and out of these one hundred and forty-seven died on the passage, and were thrown overboard! Only six arrived at Ship Island! The loss to the Government is estimated at from $60,000, and is all to be attributed to gross ignorance and blundering on the part of the Government official who had the charge of shipping the poor creatures.
LOYAL BLACKS HELPING OUR SOLDIERS. We learn from Hatteras that loyal blacks from North Carolina helped to man the fleet of Flag-Officer Goldsborough, and to serve the guns which have sunk Lynch's boats and compelled the surrender of Roanoke Island. The navy, although a large proportion of its highest officers are from the slave States, has not been in the habit of examining a seaman's complexion before shipping him. "Can you fight" is the only question.-N. Y. Tribune.
POOR BRIGHT. Another added to the political morality list. Cause-the Inevitable Nigger. Poor Bright! A decent man enough, but never otherwise, in an unlucky day he married a family of niggers and a Kentucky plantation. Since that time, his course has been downward. His love of man-selling and woman-whipping, acquired after he grew up to manhood, obliterated his love of justice and his love of country; and now, expelled from the Senate as a traitor, he is an object of abhorrence to every patriotic man. So the virus of slavery works.-Chicago Tribune.
Jeff. Davis is to be inaugurated on Saturday next as President for six years of the Southern Confederacy. It must require a marvellous amount of coolness and hopefulness to keep his inaugural from reading like a funeral oration. While he will be haunted by the ghosts of Zollicoffer and Wise, and depressed by the clustering losses of Roanoke Island, Forts Henry and Donelson, and Savannah, he can brighten up only as he congratulates Virginia that Floyd remains true as steel.-New Bedford Mercury.
Washington is to be illuminated on Saturday night. The day being the historic 22d of February, President Lincoln has issued a proclamation, recommending to the people of the United States that, on that day, "they assemble in their customary places of meeting for public solemnities, and celebrate the anniversary of the birth of the Father of his country, by causing to be read to them his immortal Farewell Address."
The Washington correspondent of the New York Evening Post says that after each anti-slavery lecture in the Smithsonian Institute, complaint is made by the "old fogies" of the use made of the Institute lecture-room, so that the President of the Lecture Association, Rev. John Pierpont, now makes it a rule to precede each lecture with the statement that the Institute is in no wise responsible for the lectures delivered in this course. This statement is the signal for an explosion of laughter from the audience, and puts them in the best of humor for listening to the discourse which follows.
The Hutchinsons attended a party given by Secretary Chase on Thursday evening, last week, and sang an anti-slavery song by Whittier, for singing which in the camp in Virginia, General McClellan ordered them to the other side of the Potomac. We do not learn that anybody was hurt at the Secretary's party, although there were some of that class present who always get up and leave church when the minister preaches something they do not agree with.
The rebels have refused to receive or to distribute the two thousand suits of clothes sent from the North to our prisoners, to whom they have themselves denied every comfort, because the packages were not addressed to the "Confederate States."
Senator Morrill of Maine, of the Senate Committee on the District of Columbia, has prepared, a bill for the immediate emancipation of the slaves of the District, about 3000 in number, paying loyal owners $300 for each slave.
Col. Hallett has been put in irons by the rebel authorities at Hickman, Ky., for refusing to recognize the "provisional government" of that State, and speaking disrespectfully to the Right Rev. Gen. Polk.
<c06>
GEORGE THOMPSON. This gentleman has recently been lecturing in England, on the subject of "American Affairs." Some years since, when a member of the British Parliament, he visited this country, to witness the workings of our institutions, and we very well recollect that he was charged, on his arrival, by what was then known as the Democratic party, (since happily dead,) with being an emissary of the British aristocracy, sent here to sow the seeds of disunion, and to overthrow our Republican form of Government. The Slave Power knew well the character of the man, and that it was dangerous to allow him freedom of speech. He was requested to address the people of Boston, Springfield and Philadelphia; but in all these cities the halls and public places were closed against him through pro-slavery influence. Where are his accusers now, and where do we find him? They are in arms against our free institutions, and vainly trying to overthrow on of the best forms of government ever devised by man, while he is found raining down sledge-hammer blows on the heads of the vile traitors, and defending the course of the Administration in its efforts to crush out this unholy rebellion.-Chester (Pa.) Republican.
The Rev. J. Sella Martin, of this city, was well received in England, where he was engaged in upholding the Union cause. He has done more for that cause in England than has been done by any white American, and the English naturally listen to him more readily than they would to white men, most of the latter not speaking adversely to slavery. Mr. Martin vindicates the course of the North in all respects. At Ipswich, three clergymen threw their pulpits open to him, and he had crowded congregations at all three services. Two days later, he made a long address to a numerous audience, the Mayor of Ipswich presiding; and a unanimous vote of thanks was adopted by the meeting. Let him be remembered, and let not the liberality of the English in these instances be forgotten!-Boston Traveller.
RECEPTION MEETING. Rev. J. Sella Martin, on returning to his congregation after a six months' absence in England, was greeted by a large reception meeting at Joy Street Church, last Monday evening. The interesting exercises terminated with a social gathering in the vestry.
THE FEDERAL LOSS AT THE TAKING OF ROANOKE ISLAND. Despatches from the Burnside Expedition state that the Federal loss at the taking of Roanoke Island was 42 killed and about 140 wounded; the rebel loss was 30 killed and less than 100 wounded. Three thousand prisoners were captured by our troops, and all their gunboats burnt or taken except two, which escaped in the canal. The troops which particularly distinguished themselves were the 21st, 25th and 27th Massachusetts, the 9th and 51st New York, and the 10th Connecticut. The rebels were driven from their intrenchments by the Hawkins Zouaves and 21st Massachusetts. Education has been taken without resistance.
EVACUATION OF BOWLING GREEN. The following letter, dated Louisville, February 12th, appears in the New York Herald:-
"Bowling Green has been evacuated. The statements sent you on the 10th and 11th have been fully confirmed. The facts stated in my letter in regard to the movements of Floyd's and other brigades on the 25th of January have been sustained. The last of the rebels left the place on Monday, having removed all their goods and property. The splendid iron railroad bridge and turnpike bridge have been blown up and burned. Everything in the least valuable to our troops has been destroyed, and Gen. Hindman has laid waste the country from Cave City to Bowling Green.
It was believed at Richmond that the Union troops were marching on Weldon. The citizens of Weldon deserted that place in a panic, taking with them their slaves and household goods, and, in some cases, burning their houses. Transport vessels, filled with Union troops, were ascending the Chowan river, their destination being, it was supposed, Weldon. The slaves on the plantations on the Blackwater river were being employed in obstructing that stream in various ways, to prevent the ascent of the Union vessels. It was thought at Suffolk that that place would also be attacked. Troops from Petersburg had arrived there to defend it. Gen. Blanchard was in command. The defences immediately around Richmond were being strengthened.
PARIS, 21. The Independence Belge asserts that the Southern Commissioners have informed the English Government that in return for the recognition of the Southern Confederacy, they would establish most absolute free trade for 50 years, abolish the external slave traffic, and emancipate all the blacks born after the recognition. These offers, however, will not determine Lord Palmerston to abandon the policy of neutrality.
The Virginia journals state that the attempt to make the Merrimac sea-worthy, as an iron-plated ship, has again failed. She was over-weighted. Never having been meant to wear armor, the stout ship refuses to serve in it. The labors of the rebels on her resemble much those of a band of Nootka Sound savages, when they chance to find a wreck on their coast.
Captain John Brown (son of the John Brown whose soul is "marching on,") arrived at Fort Leavenworth a few days since from Detroit, Michigan, and was accompanied by forty recruits, one of whom was with his father in the Harper's Ferry tragedy. Capt. Brown's company is now full, and is assigned to Col. Jennison's regiment.
A special dispatch, dated Leavenworth, February 14th, says that after several interviews between Generals Lane and Hunter, it is evident that amicable arrangements are impossible. General Lane will return to the Senate without delay.
John C. Breckinridge, in an address to the people of Kentucky, asking votes for himself as candidate for a seat in the rebel congress, takes pains to tell them he is utterly opposed to a reconstruction of the old government on any terms. Of course, he is. Such reconstruction involves an unpleasant suspension of such traitors as himself.
It is announced in the rebel papers that Gen. Beauregard reached Columbus on the day that Fort Henry was captured.
The Legislature of Delaware has refused to abolish slavery, and declined to support the Federal Government. Such loyalty is treason.
The Dedham Gazette thinks George Lunt ought to be ducked in a horse pond. Has our friend no bowels of compassion for the horses?-Roxbury Journal.
DEATH OF DR. LUTHER V. BELL. Advices from Washington announce the death Dr. Luther V. Bell, of Charleston, Mass., Brigade Surgeon of Gen. Hooker's Division of the Army of the Potomac. Dr. Bell was born in Francestown, New Hampshire, in 1806, but came to this State in early youth. Perhaps he was best known to the public as Superintendent of the Insane Asylum, at Somerville, a position which he filled with great ability and success.
DEATH OF HON. WM. APPLETON. Hon. William Appleton died at Longwood, Saturday morning, at 8 o'clock.
Hon. Wm. Pennington, ex-Governor of New Jersey, and Speaker of the House of Representatives of the last Congress, died at Newark, Sunday, at the age of 68.
President Felton of Harvard College is dangerously ill at the residence of his brother in Chester County, Pennsylvania.
AARON M. POWELL., Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Mamaroneck, N.Y., Tuesday, Feb. 25.
New Rochelle, N.Y., Thursday, Feb. 27.
New Rochelle, N.Y., Friday, Feb. 28.
Pleasantville, N.Y., Saturday, March 1.
LEOMINSTER AND FITCHBURG.-Parker PILLSBURY will lectures in
Leominster, Saturday even'g, March 1.
Fitchburg, Sunday even'g March 2.
-at 7 o'clock.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., will deliver his lecture, "A Plea for Emancipation," in West Wrentham, on Sunday afternoon, March 2d. On Sunday evening, he will deliver his lecture in Sheldonville, on "The Cause and the Effect of the Rebellion."
JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., will deliver his lecture "A Plea for Emancipation," where he may be invited, for a trifle over his expenses. His address is No. 6 Tremont street, Boston.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak on "Common Sense in
Hopedale, Sunday, A.M., Feb. 23
On "The War," in
Milford, Sunday evening, Feb. 23.
Rock Bottom, Monday evening Feb. 24
East Cambridge, Sunday, evening March 2.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References.-Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the liberator.
THE RETRIBUTION WAITING.
Not Yet! not yet! our cup is not yet drained:-
We see not yet the angel through the lees;
But when He wills it,-when our Father please,-
We then shall meet you with a tool unstained.
our blood must wash this blood-stain! 'tis decreed!
We thought lot this, sipping the surface fair;
Our lot with yours we did not then compare:- 
For this our hearts and hearths, like your, must bleed.
Sons must be torn from mother; spouse from spouse; 
Brother Meet brother in the angry fray!
Ye knew this wrong could not be borne, alway:-
We knew it not,-wrapt in our deep carouse.
But the hour cometh! now we watch and wait: 
The Christ will come again-we hid him long 
In a dark sepulchre: but angels strong
Pull at the stone, and soon will ope the gate.
The Eastern lights are rounding to the West: 
She sends her Love joys, and brave Conways too:
No cloud will hide a Fremont, strong and true-
The ray beyond shines brighter for the test.
Despair not, then, ye patient little ones! 
Come with your token-budget to our door: 
Your feet are sandaled for the opal floor,- 
While we creep, bleeding, over unhewn stones. 
Milney, Jan. 4, 1862.
A. P. L.
Happening to be in Deerfield, Mass., a few days since, the following unpublished , but spirited effusion upon the rendition of Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns, (written at the time by a much respected citizen of that place,) were read to us in manuscript by a friend. We deem them worthy of printing, even at this late day, as slave-hunting at the North is not yet ended.-[ED.
LINES,
Written on leaning that Thomas Sims had been delivered
to the "man-stealers" in Boston.
Sons of "Old Massachusetts," say, has it come to this? 
And have ye learned to bend the knee, th' oppressor's rod to kiss? 
And will ye how your free-born necks beneath the tyrant's yoke,
And wear these chains more galling still than those your fathers broke? 
And can ye calmly take your stand around those fathers' graves,
And tamely bear upon your souls the blighting brand of slaves?
Shall Lexington be silent now? Shall Faneuil Hall be still?
And shall no thunder-peal of wrath roll down from Bunker Hill?
Did Prescott bear his manly breast on Freedom's battlefield,
And did the martyred Warren bleed, to teach you thus to yield?
Did Hancock, Adams, Otis, with all the patriot train,
Toil through long years of agony, and doubt, and strife, in vain?
Have ye forgot the lessons these noble heroes taught?
will ye give up the heritage by their endurance bought?
Shall Freedom's holy altar-fires be suffered thus to wane?
And will ye pile no sacrifice within her sacred fane?
Here in your "Ancient Commonwealth" shall man be bought and sold,
That ye may worship at the shrines of Cotton and of Gold?
Shame! shame upon your recreant souls, if things like these can be!
Shame, if "Old Massachusetts" no longer dare be free!
Rouse up, rouse up, in Freedom's cause! Up, in the name of Heaven!
Pledge life and fortune to maintain the birthright God has given!
Ye cannot bear the brand of guilt that's stamped upon your brow;
Ye must cast off the venal chains that bind your spirits now.
By all the stirring memories that cluster round the past-
By all the love ye bear the land in which your lot is cast-
By all the bright and glorious hopes which round your future throng-
By all your sacred love of right, and burning hate of wrong-
By all the faith in Christian truth with which your bosoms swell-
By all your hops of heaven, and all your fears of hell-
And by the living God above, the God in whom ye trust-
Ye will not see His image thus trampled in the dust;
This blot of infamy may not upon your souls remain-
Ye must, ye can, ye WILL wipe off this dark and damning stain! 
Deerfield, Mass.-1851. H.K.H.
ON THE RETURN OF ANTHONY BURNS TO SLAVERY.
Once more, O Massachusetts! you've vilely bent the knee;
Once more proclaimed to earth and heaven that you dare not be free!
Once more the haughty tyrant's foot your sacred soil has trod;
Once more your back he's scored and gashed, and made you kiss the rod;
Once more you've grovelled in the dust at his imperial beck,
And felt the iron heel of power again upon your neck;
Once more you've girt your armor on to guard th' unholy cause,
And make anew the slavish boast that you've "maintained the laws;"
Once more your shining bayonets have glistened in the sun,
To crush the light of Freedom out, and help the deed be done!
Behold your fathers' spirits come from out their hallowed graves,
To brand you with the epithets of cowards and of slaves!
Their solemn voices, sad but stern, are wafted on the air-
Hear, then, the withering rebuke their thrilling accents bear!-
"Blot out the records of the past! Let history be dumb-
And bid a hissing world forget the stock from which you come;
No longer dare the sacred name of Liberty to mock,
Nor boast of your descent from men who first trod Plymouth Rock;
Down with yon tower that lifts its head in pride on Bun her Hill,
And bar the door of Faneuil Hall, and keep its echoes still;
Let "Independence" be forgot-dare not to breathe the name-
And on your "glorious Fouth" be still, and hide your head in shame;
Seal up the sacred book of God, nor dare presume to scan
The page where beams that living truth, "THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN";
Tear every Christian altar down mock not your God with prayer-
Look not to Heaven, for Justice sits enthroned in judgment there;
And He who holds the balance true shall you with His rod,
And you shall wither up before the dreadful wrath of God.
Deerfield, Mass.-June, 1854. H. K. H.
HOME IS WHERE THERES ONE TO LOVE US.
Home's not merely four square walls,
Though with pictures hung and gilded;
Home is where affection calls-
Filled with shrines the heart hath builded!
Home! go watch the faithful dove,
Sailing 'neath the heaven above us; 
Home is where there's one to love-
Home is where there's one to love us.
Home's not merely roof and room;
Home needs something to endear it;
Home is whore the heart can bloom.
Where there's some kind one to cheer it! 
What is borne with none to meet?
None to welcome, none to greet us? 
Home is sweet-and only sweet-
When there's one we love to greet us!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
LETTERS FROM ENGLISH ABOLITIONISTS OF THE WAR IN AMERICA.
(England,) Dec. 7, 1861.
On the great topic of the day, the American Revolution of 1861, there is a wide difference of opinion entertained between New and Old England. Public opinion here I think decidedly recognizes the right of the Southern States to choose their own form of government. I have never yet seen an argument against it worthy of notice, except the statement that a designing minority have produced the division, which all the facts that have come under my notice repudiate and refute. The North has no more right to control the South than Austria has to control Hungary, Russia Poland, or England Ireland. Government is a question that every nation-i.e., every community of men containing within itself the elements of self-government-ought to be left to itself to settle. Any interference from outsiders is to be condemned; and the slavery of the South makes no difference in the right. It would have made no difference, in my estimation, even if the policy of the North had been to extinguish slavery. There is no doubt that this would have made a great difference in the sentiment of this country; but my own deliberate judgment is, that you-the North-have no right to interfere, by force of arms, in the government of the South. As it is, the North is simply fighting for empire. The basest and most brutal tyranny that exists upon the earth is attempting, by force of arms, to sustain ITSELF; for there can be no doubt that thirty-four States, united to uphold African slavery, is a far more powerful despotism than the Confederate States alone could be. It is this feeling that separates the North from the sympathies of the world; for, so far as I gather from statements made, the sentiment of Europe on this contest is one. Of course, with you, the Union is an idea filling every Northern heart. But it is an idol which I trust a merciful Providence is going to destroy, and I believe that every American will be in a better state for realizing the glorious destiny that yet awaits him when he regards the Union from the same stand-point that we look upon the revolted colonies of 1776.
Of course, you are far too proud a people to believe this yet. A seven-years' war, with all the sufferings it will entail on the whole continent and the world at large, will make you both a sadder and a wiser people; and, as it often is the case with high-spirited young men here, and I dare say with you also, nothing but bitter experience of life will tame the wild blood, and extort from them the recognition of those facts which prudent age always saw, but youth was blind to.
The sentiment here is, that the conquest of the South, and their subjection to Northern ideas, is a sheer impossibility, and therefore absurd to fight for. No doubt distance from the scene of contest, as well as from the passions excited by it, must always present the facts very differently from their appearance to an excited actor in their midst. The difference is natural; the justice and truth of the conclusions of either can have no arbiter but time. We must await the final result, and believe and trust in the goodness of that ever ruling Providence
"which shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will."
I dare say you will demur to the doctrine, and see fallacies to the application of my principles to the present case. But just look back a few years ago to the sympathy of the Free States with the Canadian insurrection; or suppose that now, for any reason-for mere logical reasons in such cases are the varies moonshine of delusion-the Canadians thought fit to assert their right to govern themselves independently of the mother country, and were to show the same unanimity that the South has done-would you or any intelligent American deny their right to do so? and would not your sympathies involuntarily flow forth towards them in their endeavors? I am sure they would; and just so every lover of liberty, whose personal feelings do not warp his judgment, will wish success to the South at this present crisis. How can they do other? All charges of treason and conspiracy and robbery mean nothing but the expression of revengeful feelings or disappointed ambition. Assuming the truth of the conspiracy, and the traitorism of the South, it is all justified, so far as the thing can be justified, and perfectly so too, as against the North, by the present attitude and behavior of the North itself. If the South had not availed itself of the opportunities of arming itself, &c. &c., where would it have been now, in the face of the overwhelming military power of the North? Take Maryland as an example. The North will not allow the free constitutional expression of opinion on the part of a "sovereign" State. That your power is hated, and your influence only coincident with your military strength, is seen in the fact that Maryland, in spite of the presence of an overwhelming military force, would have voted herself out of the Union, but for an act of oppression and despotism that only has its parallel in Russia and Austria at the present time. And I hold military despotism to be the same everywhere, and that is at present the character of your government wherever your armies coerce the people of the separate States.
I want the Abolitionists of America to take a broader and wider and deeper view of this subject than I they have done. I loved them because I thought they were "MEN," not Americans, or New Englanders, or Northerners, but, rising above all such distinctions, were universal men; and to my great grief I found they nearly all sank from this sublime height to the level of Americans. It affords me an illustration and proof of the power of public opinion over the very strongest minds; and, very probably, had I been living with you, I should have shared your feelings, and joined in your policy; for I have tried to measure the one and appreciate the other. And while I think that if I had been in your midst, I might have been carried away by the flood, I still must record my judgment that the Abolitionist body have fallen from that lofty and majestic eminence on which they stood, into a position in which they stand little higher, at the best, and in some respects lower, than the community around them; and that, while they have destroyed for themselves the impregnable fortress of their old position, I see no likelihood of military success atoning (as success in this world is wont to atone) for their egregious error. They will find at the end, I am afraid, that in uniting their own with the dominant and popular feeling, they have sunk in moral power, and gained nothing by the sacrifice.
You see I am frank and outspoken. My personal regard for my old and dear American friends is not abated. The fact that I thus speak the truth that is in me will, I trust, be evidence of this. I am not without hope that I shall again see them (not all, indeed, for some very dear ones are passed away) in their own glorious land-yet to be far more glorious, when all past glories will be forgotten by reason of "the glory that excelleth "-swallowed up as the twinkling stars in the glory of the rising sun. But, whether this hope be fulfilled or not, I shall carry my American memories with me to the spiritual home, to which I am swiftly journeying,-memories that will there be radiant with joy and peace, enduring, if the will of the Lord be so, for ever and ever.
I had written thus far when the news of the sad affair of the San Jacinto, as the booming of war, came to this country, and was carried by the telegraph to every district. Nothing is stranger to us than the mad eagerness of your little officials to do unauthorized acts of boundless importance. Our "little" English officials very seldom do such things. They are taught caution, and wait for orders. The mad act-I call it so, because the capture of these Southern Commissioners could not, even if successful, affect the great question in any perceptible degree-will, so far us I can judge, inevitably plunge you and us into war, and, as this will render any further invasion of the South by sea impossible, and, break up the blockade
<c03>
of the Southern ports, it can only have, from your point of view, anti-American results. What a consolation it is to know that, under any beyond all the follies and wretchedness of mankind, there is a Divine wisdom working to Divine ends!
Affectionately yours,
(Scotland,) 5th 12 mo. 1861.
Our sympathy in the cause is as great as ever; and I do not think that the Anti-Slavery feeling has any whit diminished in Britain. It is no evidence of its being less, that we have failed in hearty unity with the Northern side in this sad war among you. I fully believe, if the Federal Government and Northern people would have proclaimed an anti-slavery war, and acted in accordance with such proclamation, that the voice of Britain would with one hearty acclaim have wished you God speed. We, like you, hope that this war may eventuate in the abolition of slavery. We hope that it may be means of blowing the mists away, and showing the true state of matters, and revealing the horrors of slavery, and the complicity of the North in maintaining them. But this is a very different thing from believing the motive of the war to be anti-slavery. Almost every move made by your authorities has tended to dispel the possibility of such belief; and yet your people are carping and caviling because we have not at once sprung up, and cheered them on to the fight for the Union- a Union you have taught us to believe, and which we still believe, to be based on the subjugation of the poor slave. Surely, we have been bad scholars, if we have not learned that the slaveholders have ruled your Union and Government till a seeming anti-slavery victory was gained, and then they could brook it no longer, and went off. We were glad to be released form such association, and thought you too would, in consistency-only regretting that all the slave States had not gone, and that thus the point for which you (Abolitionists proper) had been working, had at length been attained. But, on the other hand, your Government and people determined to coerce back these seceders-to prepare the way for bending the neck once more under the yoke of slavery; and, to our intense surprise, our Abolition friends went with the current, gave a cheer to those who went forth to battle for the Union, and joined the cry of denunciation against us who still occupied the high ground on which they had placed us! I can assure thee, it was from no lack of anti-slavery sympathy, bur rather from the opposite, that we could not see any true Abolition spirit in this Union-saving movement.
But we are very thankful to be informed by thee, that there is a strong undercurrent of genuine anti-slavery motive and feeling among the people. We trust it may increase, and bear fruit abundantly. In the mean time, this bitter feeling against England has been fostered; and now your officers have committed an outrage on liberty which we fear may bring on war with us! Oh! how our hearts sink in the thought! There would be unqualified distress in such a war. War with you, among whom are those we are bound to by closer than kindred ties! War for such a cause, and at a time when it would give courage to the South, who would look upon the passengers taken from our mail steamer as their commissioners, and in this light would glory as if a war had been undertaken to protect them-whereas, it would be simply for our own protection. It would be a dangerous thing for us to sail the Atlantic Ocean, if we were liable to be boarded by a man-o-'war, seized, and taken prisoners. Nevertheless, war in all circumstances is wrong; and this war would be peculiarly horrible. I hope some adjustment may take place, and that God will avert this grievous calamity. A war with England would, I fancy, prove the crowning triumph of the South.
I earnestly wish we could have given a decided announcement, that we should hold no dealings with the Southern Confederacy; and then we might have left matters to take care of themselves. But, as it is, we are getting involved and no doubt we deserve to share in the judgment slavery brings on all who sustain it, and do not repent; for our churches and merchants "have not done their duty." And who can say that he has done his duty?-although you Abolitionists have more than any maintained the righteous cause in the evil day. We are very anxious you should not lose one inch of your vantage ground in any way.
Truly, you never needed money more than at present; and it was a great mistake to give out, in the spring, that your work was likely to be accomplished for you. I expect you will still have a very great deal to do, for the end is not yet. Oh! I long for your preservation on the right hand and on the left, and that the little salt may not lose its savor!
With very earnest, affectionate sympathy in all your struggles for the slave,
I remain, thine, very sincerely,
LONDON, January 16, 1862.
It is asked from America-
1st. Are the English less against slavery than they used to be?
2d. If not, why do so many facts seem to give such an impression?
I answer to the 1st-In my opinion, certainly not. Test England in any mode that can be called national, and I believe the answer would be as sound as at any previous time. A petition in favor of slavery could not be got up, nor a public meeting held, I will not say in its favor, but in palliation of its enormity. I hardly know any other question on which Englishmen would individually or collectively sacrifice so much as to maintain that a slave could not tread upon British soil. It is with us ingrained into our very natures as a principle, a sentiment, and a tradition.
2d. But why, then, do we so act or speak as to make America think we are on this question abandoning our old ground, and betraying our traditions? There are various reasons:-
1st. A nation is really never unanimous on any question of right or policy decided within any moderate term of time-perhaps not within centuries-certainly, not within the thirty-one years. In times of national enthusiasm, the minority are overwhelmed and swept away. When a time of silent victory supervenes, they naturally acquiesce in silence. But the old opinions are not dead; and, let a favorable opportunity arise, they will make signs of life. This is the favorable opportunity for slavery to be defended, because to some extent our interests and our prejudices are arrayed on the side of the South, and so the seeds of slavery within some classes amongst us begin to germinate. We have not more cynics and despots amongst us to-day than yesterday, but their bad thoughts are set in greater activity. Collective England has the same answer to the slave-owner, yesterday, to-day, and forever. What I mean, then, is this-Slavery nor anything else could be extirpated from England within half a century. It does not grow-it is dying out, like other wicked things; but what there is of it has epochs of activity and epochs of quietude. The little of it that we have remaining amongst us has just put forth all its strength, and it has seemed twice as strong as it really is, because the people of this country have never been able to realize that the North is really fighting against slavery. And no very great wonder, when they reflect-
1st. That the caste prejudice against the colored race is stronger and more vehement in the North than in the South.
2d. That all through their history, the North have participated in the upholding of slavery, directly and indirectly.
3d. That even now, in the midst of a ruinous civil war, the Federal Government has offered again and again to renew every guarantee to the South on behalf of their "Institution"-and if, at last, any statesman talks of emancipation, it is from fear of the South, and not from any love of justice.
I do not say this line of reasoning is sound. With many others, I disagree with it; but I do not wonder at its prevalence. If the South could at once have been crushed into obedience, would not the slave have been once more sacrificed to make things pleasant!
<c04>
Again-may it not be said, for the slave there are two hopes-
1st. That the North shall be made to feel its inability to force the South back to the Union, without declaring for emancipation-or,
2d. That the South shall succeed, and form a separated State-the "Institution" hemmed in, (from North and West, at any rate,) and no Fugitive Law possible.
Why, then, should we pray for the success of the North? Well, for one reason-because we cannot help it. But I fear the rout at Bull's Run was a good element for the slave. Declare for emancipation, and see what England will have to say! Not one advocate of slavery will be discoverable for another quarter of a century!
P. A. T.
EUROPEAN SYMPATHY.
We are entitled to the sympathy of Europe only on the ground that this war, as waged by the Federal Government, is, either in its aims or inevitable tendencies, a war against slavery. We have hoped it was so; some of us continue to hope against hope that it may be so. The people of Europe, undoubtedly, could not for a long time believe that an administration elected by the free States, finding itself in a war waged solely for slavery, could shrink from the issue. Abolitionists have believed that the administration would be forced to take up the gauntlet thrown down by the leaders of the rebellion, and withheld all criticism. I think we are beginning to find that we have made the mistake of expecting "grapes of thorns, and figs of thistles."
For twenty years, Mr. Garrison, you have labored to prove that the American Constitution was "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," and that the only exodus for the slave was over the ruins of the American Union. With the Constitution interpreted as it has been, and the Union as it has been, you were right; and intelligent European Abolitionists have been convinced that you were right. Now, from the fourth of March to this hour, it has been the uniform and declared purpose of this administration to PRESERVE THIS SAME UNION, and the reestablish over the disaffected portions of the South THIS SAME CONSTITUTION, WITH ALL ITS GUARANTEES OF SLAVERY.
I will not go back to show that the Republican party, through all its influential leaders, its stump orators, in all its conventions, by unanimous votes in Congress, declared that it had not the purpose or the constitutional right to interfere with slavery in the States. To a European Abolitionist, that meant that the Republican party and its administration would never attempt to redeem a single one of four millions of slaves from bondage. Some of us hoped better things.
Mr. Lincoln came into power, and the country was plunged into a gigantic war. From the beginning, the sole purpose of the war has been declared to be the preservation of the Union. The President's last message declares-and all his messages contain substantially the same declaration-"I have in every case thought it proper to keep the integrity of the Union preeminent as the primary object of the contest on our part." Mr. Seward, in his diplomatic correspondence, constantly declares the same thing. To Mr. Dayton he writes, June 8, 1861: "The present, paramount duty of the Government is to save the American Union." And, to remove all doubt as to what he means, he repeatedly and emphatically declared that this "paramount duty" is to maintain the old Union, with all the old constitutional guarantees of slavery.
In his first letter of instructions to Mr. Adams, Mr. Seward says-"It may, probably, be stated, perhaps without giving just offence, that the most popular motive in these discontents was an apprehension of designs on the part of the incoming Federal administration hostile to the institution of domestic slavery in the States where it is tolerated by the local constitutions and laws." (How gingerly!) Mr. Seward forgets, in a long dispatch, to say whether this "apprehension." has any foundation or not; but in his instructions to Mr. Dayton he says:-
"The attempted revolution is simply causeless. It is, indeed, equally without a reason and without an object. Confessedly, there is neither reason nor object, unless it be one arising out of the subject of slavery." "I refrain from any observation whatever concerning the morality or immorality, the economy or the waste, the social or the unsocial aspects of slavery, and confine myself, by direction of the President, strictly to the point that the attempt at revolution on account of it, (slavery,) is, as I have already said, without reason and without object." . . . "The territories will remain in all respects the same, whether the revolution shall succeed or fail. The condition of slavery in the several States will remain just the same, whether it succeed or fail. There is not even a pretext for this complaint that the disaffected States are to be conquered by the United States, if the revolution fail; for the rights of the States, and the condition of every human being in them, will remain subject to exactly the same laws and forms of administration, whether the revolution shall succeed or whether it shall fail. In the one case, the States would be federally connected with the new confederacy; in the other, they would, as now, be members of the United States; but their constitutions and laws, customs, habits and institutions, in either case, will remain the same." . . ."It is hardly necessary to add to this incontestable statement, the further fact that the new President, as well as the citizens through whose suffrages he has come into the administration, has always repudiated all designs whatever and wherever imputed to him and them of disturbing the system of slavery as it is existing under the Constitution and laws."
Again, in his instructions to Mr. Clay, our minister to Russia, Mr. Seward says:-
"All existing interests of slavery are protected now, as heretofore, by our federal and State institutions, sufficiently to prevent the destruction or molestation of the institution of slavery, where it exists, by federal or foreign intervention, without the consent of the parties concerned."
This is the uniform tone of the diplomatic correspondence, as officially published, from the fourth of March to the middle of November. Not one generous word for freedom; not an intimation that anything else was involved than the old-time right of governments to the allegiance of their subjects, foolishly and wickedly excited to senseless and objectives rebellion; not one word which England might not have said to her colonies in 1775, or Austria to Hungary in 1848. Not only so, but our representatives are prohibited from discussing the moral character of the contest. Here is a specimen in his instructions to Mr. Corwin:-
"The President will not suffer the representatives of the United States to engage in any discussion of the merits of these difficulties in the presence of foreign powers, much less to invoke their censure against those of our fellow-citizens who have arrayed themselves in opposition to its authority."
I might multiply such extracts to almost any extent, and every official utterance of every member of the Cabinet has been in accordance with these doctrines; and every military order and every military proclamation (not modified or rebuked) corresponds. Not one single slave of the thousands who have fled from rebel masters, and signified their loyalty to the Government, has received, from that Government, the boon of freedom-not one. All are held to-day as slaves, to be returned to their former masters the very moment their masters profess loyalty. To-day the President of the United States is the largest slave holder in the country; and Gen. Wool is keeper of the largest slave-pen.
Of the poor creatures who succeed in getting into the District of Columbia, a part are confined as felons in the jails of Washington and Alexandria-their only crime, that they loved freedom and the flag which, they imagined, symbolized it, "not wisely, but too well;" and a part remanded to a life of vagrancy in a community where a colored man has no rights. Not one is allowed to leave the District, and try to take care of himself. At Fortress Monroe, every one of the thousand fugitives is restrained of his freedom just as much as he was on his rebel master's plantation. Under no pretext whatever will Gen. Wool allow one of these loyal refugees to leave the fort, except upon guarantees with satisfactory security for his speedy return; and at Port Royal all the fugitives are kept under equally strict surveillance. Why is this? It is because-and the ears of every decent man will tingle
<c05>
at the statement-it is because it is the intention of the Administration to return all these fugitives to masters who, after being whipped, profess loyalty! Events may defeat this intention; but this is not only their intention, but their duty, on their theory that their constitutional obligations are and will be unchanged by the rebellion.
I have said that the uniform doctrine of Mr. Seward is, that the question of slavery is not involved. I would not do him injustice. In his instructions to Mr. Burlingame, (page 187,) he says:-
"Both the justice and the wisdom of the war must, in the end, be settled, as all questions which concern the American people must be determined, not by arms, but by suffrage. When at last the ballot is to be employed, after the sword, then, in addition to the pregnant questions I have indicated, (viz., that slavery will be safer in the Union than out of it, the right of secession, &c.) two further ones will arise requiring to be answered-namely, Which party began the conflict, and which maintained in that conflict the cause of freedom and humanity"!
If the friends of freedom and humanity in the Old World will wait till the war is ended, we will put it to vote whether the Federal Government or the Confederate "maintained the cause of freedom and humanity"!
In exact conformity with this doctrine have been all the utterances from Washington. The border salve States have been implored to remain in the Union, because slavery would be safer in the Union than out of it! Not a single slave would have been found in Maryland to-day, but for the presence of free State troops. One hundred and twenty-five thousand free State soldiers stand guard over the slave-pens of Kentucky! Only in Missouri have slaves been allowed to escape; and there only because the Government had no district jails, no Fortress Monroe, no Beaufort Islands to confine them in.
Now, Mr. Editor, I hold that Europe has the right-indeed is bound-to take the Administration at its word, that "the condition of every human being in the United (including the seceded) States will remain subject to exactly the same laws and forms of administration, whether the revolution shall succeed or whether it shall fail."
Let us take one peep into this Sodom which Mr. Seward says shall remain "exactly the same." The Hilton Head correspondent of the London Star says:
"There are two classes of slaves in the cotton States, as in those of the border: the field hands, black in complexion, be whipped almost daily, and locked up for safety at night, and the household servants, the offspring of incestuous intercourse between masters and good-looking 'yellow-girls', who themselves are the children of white men. I have seen a young girl in Washington, with light-brown smooth hair, clear rosy complexion, and blue eyes, who, I was informed, was a slave. I had previously heard of such cases, but attached small credit to the reports. My informant being resolved to satisfy my doubts showed me the girl, and we questioned her as to her history.
In a perfectly artless manner she told us she was born in Texas, and that at sixteen years of age her owner and father made her his mistress, brought her to Washington, and lived with her there until the secession of his State, when he went South, taking with him, as his new concubine, her youngest sister, also his own daughter. The girl seemed surprised at my astonishment and disgust, informing me, with the greatest naivet, 'Why, I belonged to him!'
An officer of the Wabash told e day after the victory at Hilton Head that, going absorb with a boat's crew that morning on St. Helena Island, he ran against a number of slaves of the household class: A few question satisfied him they belonged to one of the richest planters in those parts. Among the was a handsome-looking, olive-complexioned girl, who lamented to him that her baby had been carried off by the family after the battle. 'Yass Massa,' said one of the male salves, 'and it is Massa George's baby, too;' and the girl showed by her manner how much she was pleased at the fact being made known to the strangers."
Multiply these facts by one million, and we have the legal condition of two millions of women whose status is to remain unchanged after the war. And it is for our Administration, carrying on war for such purposes, that we ask European sympathy!
We remember Polk and the annexation of Texas, and the Mexican war; we remember Franklin Pierce and the Nebraska Bill, and the outrages upon Kansas; we remember Buchanan and his abject servility to slavery; but never, never has there been an Administration so completely delivered over to slavery, so devoted to its purposes, and so successful in that devotion, as Abraham Lincoln's. Released by the voluntary act of the rebel States from every, even the slightest constitutional obligation to support slavery, they have stepped forth as its champions in the hour of its direst danger; and now, whatever the issue of the war, slavery, as Mr. Seward says, is eternal!
I have no heart for comments. Just such is the aspect of our situation to European observers. Let not American Abolitionists join in denouncing them, because they do not ignore facts as clear as noon-day. Let us rather recognize but one relation between us and the present administration, as it has been between us and past administrations-that of undying hostility as to enemies of God and Humanity F. W. B.
THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
The great, the learned the noble in England are in frightful anxiety lest slavery should be put down in America, with the aid of people not acting from an abstract oral motive. They bear the cry of rape and murder in the street, and they rush to stop the policeman because they have a doubt whether he has not an eye to pay or promotion, rather than to speculative morality.
There is no exaggeration in this. Southern slavery does things not charged against the Cities of the Plain; for the last account of which, see the Special Correspondent in the Morning Star of December 13th. And British Anti-Slavery hurries to protest against this being attacked, because it is not clear on the purity of the assailants' views. It might be lawful to put an end to the "institution" and its peculiarities, if done with pure views; but if anybody joins with the view of also suppressing a rebellion, the "institution" and its peculiarities shall flourish under special protest against the intrusion. 
Meanwhile, on the American side of the Atlantic, things look not amiss. American common-sense will conquer, in spite of all that can be done to hinder it. Every day brings men over to the knowledge, that to quench rebellion in the Southern States by calling on the loyal, including the colored population, was from the first the way that civil or military wisdom would have taken for a bloodless solution, and which, after oceans of bloodshed, must be taken at last. An uncommon head must the man have, who ever dreamt of an exodus of four millions of negroes to go none can say whither. Had General Fremont been let alone, he would have offered emancipation to the salves on condition of their entering into such engagements as they might, to work for wages for such masters as gave in their adhesion to the new order of things in return for condemnation of past rebellion, and for government commissioners appointed to administer the estates of obstinate rebels. And this, accompanied with General Orders against vagrancy, such as a general in the field knows how to give, and the Provost-Martial on horseback to make respected.
Strong parties in England set themselves set themselves against this, because they do not want to see the restoration of the Union at all; their desire is to see the States divided that they ay be weakened. The dread of "nameless horrors" and "horrible weapons" is purely English. Americans know that there need be as little danger of "horrors" as in Jamaica, and that a bill ought to be made out against the Southern States for enabling them to cultivate their estates the cheaper way, and saving from future insurrections. Which is what men profaning the name of Anti-Slavery in England are not ashamed to call "ruthless confiscation."
One thing more, which is to beg and earnestly entreat the attention of all whose battle is indirectly fighting. It is the war of "the toiling masses" against brute might, all over the earth. There may be those of the who have got above the danger of seeing their daughters sold to prostitution at the order of a master. But the spirit is abroad, and rich corporations are feasting the men who come to say it ought to be. The workers will simply be playing into the hands of their enemies, if they look on like idiots while the ladder is kicked down by which others ought to rise.-Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser.
<c06>
A REIGN OF TERROR IN RICHMOND.
From the Albany Express.
When the rebellion broke out, the Southern people rejoiced that they had cut loosed from the demoralizing associations of the North; in fact, they declared that all sin and vice were to be found north of the Potomac. The South was a perfect paradise of virtue and morality-somewhat contaminated, however, by the influence of the Free States. We of the North were low, degraded beings-"mudsills"-steeped in all the depths of crime, unconscious of shame, and addicted to all the vices tending to demoralize and debase humanity. They of the South were gems of morality, high-toned, chivalrous souls, who shunned vice as a leper, and guarded with scrupulous care their associations, lest corruption and immorality should creep in. Now what is the truth with reference to Southern society, and, Southern people? We do not propose to describe the ourselves, but will allow the Richmond Examiner, of Wednesday last, to depict the deplorable state of affairs in the once quiet and sleepy capital of Virginia. It says:-
"The rowdyism now rife in this city has become intolerable, and demands immediate suppression with the high hand. Acts of brutal violence, vulgar <Illegible> and gross indecency are of momentary occurrence in our streets. The most orderly citizen and the most delicate lady are exposed to outrage and insult. No man's life, even, is secure in broad daylight on our most public thoroughfares. To surround, knock down, bruise and maltreat has become the pastime of the ruffians who throng our payments. The evil must be suppressed, or else society must surrender its authority to brute violence. We must assert the power of the law upon the persons of the ruffians and vagabonds that infest our streets and alleys.
"More vigilance should be required of the police, and a larger constabulary employed. Every street corner should be manned by a policeman in uniform, armed to the teeth, whistle in hand. Prepared to really a dozen colleagues on the instant of disturbance. The license money arising from the rapid increase of group-shops would seem appropriately employed in invigorating the police. If these furnaces of bell-fire are allowed to dispense at every corner what not merely intoxicates but crazes, surely the revenues which they pay into the city treasury should be expanded in protecting the valuable lives which they imperil, and in restoring the order which they disturb. The city of tolerating a thousand dens of iniquity and passion, owes the duty to its population of affording it protection from the dangers and outrages thus engendered and prepared. The time has arrived for vigilance and summary <illegible>, or else ruffianism, theft, arson, drunkenness and murder will soon claim the city as their exclusive reserve."
In another column of the Examiner, we find the following extraordinary statement, on which it is not necessary to remark at all:-
"A few nights ago, the gamblers of Richmond held a convention in this city, and, after the fashion of 'the noble refrigerators' of Congress, transacted their business in secret session. We are informed that one hundred and fifty members of the gambling and 'plug' fraternity were present; that fifty thousand dollars were noted and subscribed to as a fund to carry the next election for Mayor; and that the candidate nominated as likely to unite the gambling and rowdy interests of Richmond is an ungrammatical grocer and whiskey-worm of the name of David J. Saunders. We are very much of the opinion that, if matters are not speedily bettered in Richmond, the gamblers, 'plugs,' and the retired and unsavory whiskey dealer they propose as their candidate, will be in the hands of a vigilance committee before the date of the next municipal election."
PRAYER OF A CONTRABAND.
In one of Mr. Lockwood's (missionary to the contrabands at Fortress Munroe) letters, he reports a portion of one of the colored brother Carey's prayers, though he says it is impossible for him to give its force and beauty, as follows:
"O Lord, if you please, look down upon us this evening, I pray, and give us a closing blessing. We thank and praise thee for all that we have heard from the lips of our Northern brethren, who have come over the briny waters to preach to us the pure gospel. O Lord, though I cannot read thy word, I thank thee that thou hast written it on the table of my heart, and given me an understanding mind, and kept it blazing before my eyes like the sun. Yet O Lord, I confess that we have never been thankful enough for all thy blessings. We confess that we are like the children of Israel, ever ready to murmur and complain. But for murmurings, O Lord, you have given us blessings, and this makes us come for more. O Lord, we believe that you have come to deliver your people. O trample the secessionists under foot-bless the Union cause, and right every wrong. Bless the President, the Congress Hall and the Senate. Help them to make laws that shall be for the good of the Union, and the freedom of thy oppressed people, O Lord, I pray Bless the army and the officers. Make them wise as a serpent, and bold and persevering as a lion, till thy people are delivered. Look this evening upon our dear brethren and sisters and children far away in the home of bondage, especially those who have been carried away by the secessionists. Comfort their minds, and interpose for their deliverance, and if they are not in Christ, bring them in O Lord, I pray. Remember our dear brother (Jocelyn) who has been with us, and is about to leave, preserve him on the mighty waters, and reward him for his labors of love, and remember our brother (Lockwood) who has come back to us. Strengthen him in the inner and outer man, and give him grace and strength for suffering time, that he may go in and out before us, and do us good. And when you have remembered all, remember me, and after you have done and suffered your holy will with n.e, please to receive me to yourself, O Lord, I pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen."
REWARD FOR LOYALTY. The Port Royal correspondent of the New York Tribune, in his account of the destruction of the rebel batteries at Port Royal Ferry, after describing the retreat of the rebels before our troops, says that our forces returned as rapidly as possible, leaving the poor negroes to the tender mercies of masters enraged by the loyalty of their slaves to the Federal flag. He says:-
"The negroes were greatly disappointed, having had no notice of the departure of the troops. From every direction, they came running across then fields, loaded with bundles, followed by their wives and children, and in some instances mounted on horses which had lately belonged to less loyal masters. Few of them were able to get away. We could see them from the deck, slowly and mournfully returning to the cabins. Some of the had no cabins to retire to, for the fire had not spared loyal homes. It was sad to think what their fate might be if the rebels returned, as they almost certainly would, to carry back with them the negroes whose willing services we rejected. I must not forget to say that the pilot of the Ottawa was an intelligent slave named William, and that only by his knowledge of the channels and perfect fidelity were the gunboats able to penetrate these treacherous waters, and I am glad to add that he was cordially thanked on the quarter deck by Capt. Rodgers and Capt. Stevens."
"AN ACCURSED STATE." Mr. Times Russell, LL.D., is shocked because the chaplain of one of the Pennsylvania regiments at Port Royal spoke of South Carolina as "this accursed State in which we worship God." What should he have called it? This blessed Paradise? This happy, prosperous State? South Carolina is "accursed," and there is no more unfitness in applying that epithet than in calling a spade a spade. Is it not cursed with the slavery of 400,000 Africans in its territory-cursed with the prevalent ignorance and degradation of its white inhabitants-cursed with an overbearing, factious, rebellious aristocracy-cursed in the lack of wise counselors and in the rule of wicked demagogues-cursed by invasion of its soil, and the possession of its best harbor by a hostile force-cursed in the destruction of its chief city by fire? Is it not (to follow the dictionary) "detestable; execrable; wicked; malignant in the extreme"? What could aggravate its ruined condition? Uncle Toby would "not have the heart to curse the devil" as South Carolina has cursed herself. Why should the honest chaplain pick and mince his phrases in speaking of it?-Missouri Democrat.
