THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON &SON, Printers.
VOL XXXIII NO 31 BOSTON.FRIDAY,JULY 31,1863 WHOLE NO 1695.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE NEW YORK HERALD’S DESCRIPTION OF THE LATE RIOT IN THAT CITY.
The manner in which that pre-eminently satanic journal, the New York Herald, described the late fiendish riot in that city, may be seen by the following specimen. Mark how the ruffians are described!
On Saturday evening, there was intense excitement in the neighborhood, and when the names of the conscripts were read, there seemed to be a general determination to resist the law. There was no free discussion tolerated on the subject. Whoever supported the draft seemed to be regarded as an en<Illegible> of the people, or at least as an individual who had the mammon antidote to it—-three hundred dollars.
These indications ripened on Sunday, when the Herald published the list of over twelve hundred names which the wheel of fortune and a man blind<Illegible> independent of their will—and in hundreds of instances of their knowledge-enrolled as soldiers.
The people seemed to forget their prayers and the religious aspect attached to the Sabbath. Piety and the saints, Scripture and tradition, were temporarily discarded by the masses, who a few hours previously had filled spacious temples. The draft was the all<illegible> subject. Who were its victims — how many were the chances of escape-how the rich (made so by a war they sought to make perpetual) <illegible> on payment of a nominal amount, which the profits on a roll of shoddy or a few explosive muskets would realize—were the points which large colloquial groups discussed, not only in the Ninth district, but throughout the city.
The fact that nearly all the men drafted were laborers and mechanics added fuel to the flame. There was many a sad household on Sunday in the Twenty-second ward, where the names were read; and it must be stated, by way of an explanation of the extraordinary resistance which marked the draft, that the female relatives of the conscripts mingled their wildest denunciation against the conscription law and thus gave the people a “cavalier” motive to enact the terrible scenes in the district and throughout the city.
Sunday closed peaceably. We have reason to believe that no organization was then formed to resist the draft. But when Monday came—the weekly holiday of the people—when labor is merely started, the masses generally abstained from work. The day was to effect developments of no ordinary character. Opposition to a law-which might become the signal of hostility elsewhere—was to become practical. Few of the sons of toil entered their workshops, and, as if by preconcerted arrangement, a concourse of over twelve thousand, armed with various weapons, -clubs, staves, pieces of steel, bars of iron, and cart rugs-appeared, and proceeded to patrol the city.
It was well known that the draft was to be continued on Monday morning, in the Ninth district. As the movements of the throng were not anticipated no measures were taken to overcome them by strong force.
At an early hour the people met, then but two thousand in number, in the Twenty-second ward. They proceeded through, the city, on what might be termed recruiting service. One of the number had a copper pan-a gong—with which he drummed up men to participate in the hostilities. The throng met with a welcome reception almost everywhere; their calls were promptly answered;: at their” bidding to join in resistance to the conscription, workshops were suddenly deserted; men left their various pursuits; owners of inconsiderable stores put up their shutters; factories were emptied; conductors or drivers left their cars; employes at railroad depots-all added formidable accessions to the concourse; and on they swept like a torrent to the Provost Marshal’s office of the Ninth district, No. 667 Third avenue, to destroy every vestige of the conscription there, and to wreak their vengeance indiscriminately on the officers.
As they rushed through the streets, they armed themselves with various weapons; but, although many of them had firearms, they were not used till a later portion of the day.
Not a word of condemnation was heard against those who had openly and with success temporarily bearded the federal power, and applied the torch to the headquarters of its officers.
All that the crowd of combatants did—their work of ruin, demolition, fire and death—were forgotten in the draft, which they thus endeavored to defeat.
When the crowd had destroyed the building, scattered the ballots to the wind, pursued over dozens of fences, into stores and saloons, the retreating officers of the conscription, and spread terror among those who were to enforce it, and who were suddenly numbered among the flying skedaddlers, they marched, hooting, cheering, yelling, towards Captain Manierre’s office, No. 1188 Broadway, where the draft was proceeding. The Captain, however, heard of their approach, and prudently postponed the drawing-till this morning.
The inadequate force at the disposition of the authorities, and the absence of the militia, gave the <illegible> a dangerous opinion of their strength, and they acted accordingly. At four o’clock, a detachment of regulars, from Governor’s Island, marched through the streets to protect the State Arsenal on Thirty-fifth street, which it was expected the crowd would enter, and hold, to supply themselves with arms. As the troops marched, groups of men and women received them occasionally with hootings and epithets.
They reached the arsenal, where an immense multitude had gathered outside, at five o’clock, and then took possession of the building. Detachments of the First and Third cavalry regiments also arrived, and were stationed in front of the building.
In the midst of the excitement, a great concourse proceeded to the residence of Gen. McClellan, in East Thirty-first street, to give him an ovation. The throng halted opposite the house, where they gave loud and prolonged cheers for “Little Mac;” but ascertaining that he was in New Jersey, they left, proceeding down Fifth avenue shouting and hurrahing.
While the excitement was at its height on Monday afternoon, and when all respect for order seemed gone some one proposed to the throng who were <illegible> the destruction of Captain Manierre’s building, that they should march to the Mayor’s residence, and give him a “serenade.” The proposition was instantly adopted, and several thousands of the people, armed in all conceivable ways, marched in comparatively good order to Mr. Opdyke’s palatial residence on the Fifth avenue. The residents in the neighborhood were terribly alarmed, fearing that general vengeance would be wreaked upon the entire locality; but the throng paid its entire attention to the building occupied by the Mayor. Some shouted, “Bring out the Mayor, and see what he has got to say about it!” “Let us see him!” “Oh, he is a shoddy aristocrat!” “Burn the damned
<c02>
building!” “No, no,” “Yes, Yes,” and so on in all varieties. After remaining there for a few moments it was evident that incendiarism would be the result, unless some voice was raised to stay it.
Judge Barnard, who lives close by, was in this juncture called upon. He appeared, and edging his way through the crowd, managed to get a position on the stoop. Being recognized, the multitude gave three cheers, and demanded a speech. It was almost impossible to distinguish at times what the Judge said, but he was understood to denounce the draft as an unconstitutional act, and as an act of despotism. The administration had gone too far; they had imposed upon the people—whereat there was tremendous cheering. But he would call attention to the fact that we still have law, that the courts would protect us in the exercise of all our just and legal rights. (Cheers.) He hoped, for the honor of this, city, so great and glorious, that its people would do no such injury as to destroy the residence of him who was their legally elected Chief Officer. (“Well, you’re about right, Judge,” cried a voice in the crowd.) They should leave and go to their homes, and not sully the reputation of our city for its obedience to law.
The Judge’s remarks were greeted with loud applause, and the throng in a quiet manner immediately took up the line of march for Broadway, to again witness the burning ruins of the Eighth district Provost Marshal’s headquarters.
During the early part of the morning, the people of the Ninth district, consisting of a large number of respectable workmen and others, were seen to assemble at certain specified spots, and between eight and nine o’clock began moving along the various avenues west of Fifth avenue, towards their appointed place of general meeting. A large number of workmen’s wives, &c., began also to assemble along the various avenues, and, if anything, were more excited than the men, who were armed with sticks, stones, adzes, axes, saws, and some with even old swords. As the assembled people moved along, they stopped at the different workshops and factories, and a deputation entered the various buildings to inform their proprietors that they would not be answerable for the safety of their premises, unless the same were closed and their men allowed to join them if they so desired. In most cases the request was complied with at once, and the assemblage moved on.
When they arrived at Fourth avenue, along which the New Haven and Harlem railroad tracks run, one of the principals of the assembled people soon caught sight of the telegraph wires and poles. It was at once suggested that the authorities might telegraph to Albany for troops. Scarcely were the words uttered, when the axes were laid at the foot of the telegraph poles, and down they came with a terrific bang. That part of the wires that could not be thus destroyed was divided by means of men climbing the poles, they throwing slings, stones, &c., until the wires were severed, and they were rendered completely useless. Another branch wire, leading from the railroad to Third avenue, and that along Third avenue, were similarly damaged, and then the crowd again moved on to the Provost Marshal’s office. This office was situated on the northeast corner of Third avenue and Forth-sixth street. As soon as the people had reached this position, they began to flank the building on the avenue, and on that part of Forty-sixth street which leads to Second avenue. As soon as they had taken a position to suit themselves, the signal was made to commence the attack. This signal was given by the throwing of a large stone through one of the panes of glass. As soon as this was done, a rush was made for the entrances and windows, and now the excitement grew warmer.
After a very short interval, and before any of the persons in the upper part of the premises had had time to remove their handsome furniture—for some of the apartments were very expensively furnished— the flames burst out of that part of the building where the offices were held, on the ground floor, and soon were master of the entire edifice, which was four stories in height. A current of wind blew the flames across Forty-sixth street, and soon a number of frame workshops and stables were ablaze.
The firemen began rapidly to arrive at the scene of the destruction, and made a few vain efforts to p1ant their apparatus for the extinction of the fire. The crowd, however, refused to let them work, asserting, in positive terms, that they should not extinguish the flames until all the intended work of destruction had been accomplished.
At about this time, Mr. Kennedy, the Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police, was discovered by some of the persons assembled on the ground, and very soon he was attacked and dragged into a hollow that happens to be near the corner of Forty-sixth street While he was in the hands of the infuriated people, he received very serious injuries, and would doubtless have lost his life but for the mediation of some of the less excited portion of the assemblage. He was therefore allowed to be removed from the scene, and the crowd once more turned their attention to the fire.
The corner house was soon burned down, owing, doubtless, to the inflammable nature of the material within it, and the next building, also four stories high, became ignited. Although this building was in no way connected with the Provost Marshal’s office, still it was allowed to burn. As there was a party wall between this second house and the third from the corner, it was hoped, by many, that the flames would extend no farther than the second building; but after an interval of time, it was found that the third house was also ablaze.
The police, unaware of the arrangements with the firemen, advanced at this moment with the intention of making a demonstration. This at once again excited the people, and, fancying that the officers intended to attack them, they commenced firing stones, brickbats and clubs at the police, at such an extent that they had to beat a precipitate retreat, the crowd following closely after them. Of course, several men and officers became seriously hurt, and when the now enraged people saw any of their companions bleeding, they at once made for some one or other of the retreating officers. Several of the latter were felled by stones, and others defended themselves with revolvers. When any one particular officer was marked out, separate parties would pass up neighboring streets to the one by which the officer was retreating, and try to head him off. At last, weary with the chase, the people returned to the burning buildings, and the wounded were taken to the various doctors in the vicinity.
Arriving at the corner of Forty-second street, the military found that further passage was barred by a crowd of some three thousand persons, who flourished their weapons, and told the soldiers that they could proceed no further, except at the peril of their lives. Bricks now began to fly, and a general confusion prevailed. The soldiers were hemmed in so that they could hardly move. They then fired on the people. . . . As soon as the soldiers poured their volley into the multitude, they immediately turned and ran, being pursued in hot haste by thousands. The people followed them up with untiring energy, and it is said scarcely one escaped from the clutches of those who laid hands upon them.
<c03>
Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. W. D. KELLEY,
Delivered at a Mass Meeting held at National Hall, Philadelphia, July 6, 1863, for the promotion of Colored Enlistments.
My fellow-citizens, before proceeding to the consideration of the grave question which brings us together, let me say that the rebel army of Northern Virginia is no more. (Immense cheering.) As an organization, it will never leave the soil of Pennsylvania, though fragments of it may straggle across the Potomac. (Renewed cheering.) Henceforth Virginia is dedicated to freedom! (Cheers.) West Virginia was freed by the suffrages of her patriotic men, and Virginia by the power of the United States. (Applause.) Never again will the insolent aristocracy of the Old Dominion breed fair-skinned and blue-eyed girls, or stalwart black men, for the slave markets of the far South. (Long continued cheering.)
Citizens of African descent, it is to you I would speak. Are you content to spend your lives as boot-blacks, barbers, waiters, and in other pursuits little if any better than servile or menial, when the profession of arms—the terrible but glorious work of war—invites you to acknowledged manhood, freedom and honor? (Applause, and cries of No, no.)
After two hundred years of unmitigated oppression, Providence has opened the way for the Africo-American to prove his manhood to the world, and command the respect and gratitude of those of his fellow-citizens whose cupidity and prejudice have enslaved and degraded him. Will you not spring to arms, and march to the higher destiny that awaits your race, though it may require your mangled bodies to strew the glorious pathway? (Cheering, and cries of Yes, yes.) Yes, you will. Let it not be said that the Third United States Colored Volunteers, though a Pennsylvania regiment, contained but few or no Philadelphians. But fill its ranks quickly. You will bear at its head the flag around which freedmen and their descendants should most proudly rally.
The flag of Pennsylvania, the first commonwealth, kingdom or empire to abolish slavery—the commonwealth whose act of emancipation — a solemn expression of gratitude to God for the freedom he had vouchsafed to its people—antedates British emancipation more than forty years—is the one we ask you to carry aloft. It is the symbol of our honor and greatness. We cheerfully confide it to your hands, assured that you will carry it in triumph to any point at which treason has raised its rebellious head, and under its folds prove to mankind that each one of you is, in the sterner elements of manhood, a match for the haughtiest aristocrat of the Confederacy. (Applause.)
Old men, despite the disabilities under which you labor, some of you have accumulated wealth; we do not ask you to enlist—we want the young and vigorous. But when you go to your homes to-night, do your duty—gather about you your able-bodied sons, and let them know that if they prove cowards in this grand crisis of the history of your race, you will disinherit and denounce them. Mothers, you love your sons—but think you that you love them better than did the mothers of the brave white boys and men who have borne our banners over so many terrible fields? No, you will not claim this; gather, then, your sons around you, and spurn him who will not prove that when you suffered the pangs of maternity, it was to give birth to a man. And, girls, I have a word to say to you. The fellow who shrinks from the smell of gunpowder is very apt to be afraid of thunder. I have known such to creep into bed during a storm, and beg to be covered up closely. If, during this war, some spruce young dandy troubles you with a tender question, let him know that you would rather marry the wooden leg and empty jacket sleeve of a war-worn hero than any man who might require you to tuck him up during every thunder-storm. (Cheers and laughter.)
And now, white men and women, let me have a word with you. Will you assist the Supervisory Committee in the work it has in hand? Will you give to these brethren of the heroes of Port Hudson and Miliken’s Bend your broadest, fullest sympathy? Will you pour in upon Congress memorials in overwhelming numbers, demanding that, as to pay and pension, they shall be treated as liberally as other soldiers are? (Cheers, and cries of Yes, we will.) Will you watch over their widows with fraternal care, and see that their orphans are secured such educational opportunities as a great and humane Commonwealth should provide for the orphans of patriots who have laid down their lives in her cause and under her flag? (Renewed cries of Yes, and we will.) Yes, I am sure that in these respects you will be just, and I hope you will be generously magnanimous.
In the gloomy days through which we have just passed, I have been buoyant with hope amounting to faith. Behind the dark and heavy cloud that hung so oppressively near us, I saw, in the rapidly developing providences of God, the sure promise of victory and peace. During weary, sorrowing months and years of war, we have sighed for “the coming man” who was to bring us these great blessings. We have not found him. Not Butler, nor Banks, nor Fremont, nor Grant, nor Rosecrans, nor Meade-though he has invested our quiet Gettysburg with the combined glories of Magenta and Solferino-has shown himself to be the man whose genius and power were to deliver us from protracted war. To admit this is but to admit that our great soldiers are not ubiquitous. Donelson and Vicksburg, each in turn; New Orleans, Port Hudson, and Gettysburg, have each been worthy the attention of a great General. Shall we then cease to hope for him whose coming Hope has so long prophesied? Oh, no! He waits our bidding. He is the Colored Man! He has made Port Hudson the Thermopylae of his race; he occupies and surrounds Richmond; he is ready to intercept Lee’s stragglers in the Shenandoah Valley; he occupies the strongholds of Tennessee; he will give you Charleston, which is in his power, and, in distant Texas, he will respond with a joyous “ Aye, aye,” to your call, and run the Union flag to the top of every staff upon her prairies; he holds at his mercy every acre of Confederate territory; as a chattel, he feeds, clothes and arms every rebel soldier; as a MAN, assured of your sympathy, he will crush every rebel stronghold. Yes, sneer at or doubt it as you may, the negro is the “coming man” for whom we have waited. Give him the chance to attest his nature at all these points around which our white brethren perish, in swamp and hospital, and, throttling and crushing his old oppressor, he will give us speedy victory, and a peace that shall never again be disturbed by civil war. (Tremendous and long-continued cheering.)
Speeches were also delivered by Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, and Frederick Douglass. Mr. D’s speech we published last week. Miss Dickinson’s we give in the next column.
<c04>
SPEECH OF MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON.
The people of the United States have decreed justice; the Almighty has answered them with victory. (Applause.) Month after month we have struggled with rebellion in arms; month after month, through more than two years of war, have waited for decisive victory in the East. In vain! Why? We had wealth and strength, numbers and power, intellect and energy, in the North. No one questions the heroism of the men we have sent into the field; men represented by that one who, left dying on a battle-field of the West, was asked by a friend, “Do you regret?” answered, “No; I—we all are willing that our bodies should form the bridges and ladders, that the coming thousands may cross and mount, to plant their victorious banners on the shattered citadel and conquered wall;” and so died. No one questions the heroism of these men, sent by the North to martyrdom. We were unselfish, too; those who stayed gave freely of treasure, as those who went of life. We had culture to put against their ignorance; schools against rum-shops; churches against race-courses; the brain of New England against the degradation of South Carolina. We have twenty millions against eight millions. We failed. The South gained battles, won victories, trampled our banners in the dust, demanded and received from the world the recognition of the courage and determination of her soldiers.
Yet, to-night, we are rejoicing over a victory which wipes off all old scores of the army of the Potomac. (Cheers.) This South, triumphant through the hatred which is genius; which in its strength reminds one of the story of an old Scotch king, who, seeing a great robber, with his splendid surroundings and the equipments of his band, turned to a knight, saying, “What lacks that knave a king should have?” “Sire,” was the answer, “right and legitimacy.” So this South, chiefly victorious through all this terrible conflict, aided by all despotisms, almost recognized by the governments of the earth— what has it needed that beseems a nation? It has needed the corner-stone of justice and the foundation of liberty. To-night, with its walls rocking to and fro, its supporters are flying from Gettysburg, with its ruins falling on their heads. (Applause.) The North stands triumphant, because the people have clambered up to the stand-point of freedom, and from thence have hurled their missiles on the advancing hosts of despotism. The President’s threatened proclamation of September 22d, 1862— the actual proclamation of January 1st, 1863, has had the stamp and seal of everlasting endurance set to it by the people, in the Mass. 54th and 55th, and the Pennsylvania 3d United States Colored Volunteers. (Long continued applause.)
True, through the past we have advocated the use of the black man. For what end? To save ourselves. We wanted them as shields, as barriers, as walls of defence. We would not even say to them, “Fight beside us.” We would put them in the front; their brains contracted, their souls dwarfed, their manhood stunted; mass them together; let them die! That will cover and protect us. Now we hear the voice of the people, solemn and sorrowful, saying, “We have wronged you enough; you have suffered enough; we ask no more at your hands; we stand aside, and let you fight for your own manhood, your future, your race.” (Applause.) Anglo-Africans, we need you; yet it is not because of this need that I ask you to go into the ranks of the regiments forming, to fight in this war. My cheeks would crimson with shame, while my lips put the request that could be answered, “Your soldiers? Why don’t you give us the same bounty, and the same pay as the rest?” I have no reply to that. (Sensation.)
But for yourselves; because, after ages of watching and agony, your day is breaking; because your hour is come; because you hold the hammer which, upheld or falling, decides your destiny for woe or weal; because you have reached the point from which you must sink, generation after generation, century after century, into deeper depths, into more absolute degradation; or mount to the heights of glory and of fame.
The cause needs you. This is not our war, not a war for territory; not a war for martial power, for mere victory; it is a war of the races, of the ages. The stars and stripes is the people’s flag of the world; the world must be gathered under its folds, the black man beside the white. (Cheers and applause.)
Thirteen dollars a month and bounty are good; liberty is better. Ten dollars a month and no bounty are bad; slavery is worse. The two alternatives are put before you; you make your own future. The people will, in a little while, do you justice. Soldiers will be proud to welcome as comrades, as brothers, the black men of Port Hudson and Miliken’s Bend. Congress, next winter, will look out through the fog and mist of Washington, and will see how, when Pennsylvania was invaded and Philadelphia threatened, while white men haggled over bounty and double pay to defend their own city, their own homes, with the tread of armed rebels almost heard in their streets; black men, without bounty, without pay, without rights or the promise of any, rushed to the beleaguered capital, and were first in their offers of life or of death. (Cheers and applause.) Congress will say, “These men are soldiers; we will pay them as such; these men are marvels of loyalty, self-sacrifice, courage; we will give them a chance of promotion.” History will write, “Behold the unselfish heroes; the eager martyrs of this war!” (Applause.) You hesitate because you have not all. Your brothers and sisters of the South cry out, “Come to our help, we have nothing.” Father! you hesitate to send your boy to death; the slave father turns his face of dumb entreaty to you, to save his boy from the death in life; the bondage that crushes soul and body together. Shall your son go to his aid? Mother! you look with pride at the young manly face and figure, growing and strengthening beside you! He is yours! your own! God gave him to you. From the lacerated hearts, the wrung souls of other mothers, comes the wail, “My child, my child, give me back my child, The slave-master heeds not; the government is tardy. Mother! the prayer comes to you; will you falter?
Young man! rejoicing in the hope, the courage, the will, the thews and muscles of young manhood— the red glare of this war falls on the faces and figures of other young men, distorted with suffering, writhing in agony, wrenching their manacles and chains—shouting with despairing voices to you for help—shall it be withheld? (Cries of No! No!)
The slave will be freed—with or without you. The conscience and heart of the people have decreed that. (Applause.) Xerxes scourging the Hellespont, Canute commanding the waves to roll back, are but types of that folly which stands up, and says to this majestic wave of public opinion, “Thus far.” The black man will be a citizen, only by stamping his right to it in his blood. Now or never! You have not homes!—gain them. You have not liberty!-gain it. You have not a flag! —gain it. You have not a country!-be written down in history as the race who made one for themselves, and saved one for another. (Immense cheering.)
<c05>
PRESIDENT LINCOLN’S SECOND EPISTLE TO THE COPPERHEADS.
When President Lincoln wrote his letter to the Albany Copperheads, some weeks ago, the press generally praised him as a sharp correspondent. We commended the letter too, in the main, though we did not exactly like the symptoms of a disposition to pardon Vallandigham upon slight excuse, manifested in the last paragraph.
But we are sorry now, (and we think the whole Republican press should be sorry also,) that any commendation at all was bestowed; for we fear it incited and encouraged him to write his second letter, addressed to the Copperheads of Ohio, on the same subject. Had we suspected the possibility of this second epistle, we certainly should never have said a word in favor of the first.
Shortly after the President had replied to the Albany Committee, another committee, consisting of nineteen Ohio Copperheads, visited him at Washington, to urge the restoration to Ohio of its exiled traitor candidate for Governor. When this rebel sympathizing committee called at the White House, and made their business known, the President, instead of pointing them to the door, as almost any man would, or sending them out in the custody of the Provost Marshal, as Andrew Jackson or Ben. Butler would, seems to have bethought him of the credit achieved by his Albany epistle, or, possibly, of the nice opportunity to gain the advantage Job wished for when he exclaimed, “Oh that mine enemy had written a book,” and shrewdly suggested that they should reduce their request, and views in support of it, to writing. The committee, either not seeing or not fearing the trap, walked right into it, and brought him, in due time, a very high-toned, elaborate document, in which they showed him, by arguments drawn from the history of the Mexican war, that he had always been a bad man—that his arguments in his letter to their Albany brethren were not worth a copper—that he was an intolerable tyrant and insulter of the sovereign State of Ohio— and had utterly destroyed the great birth-right of Americans—the free expression of opinion! For all of which, they sharply rebuked him; and in the name of insulted Copperhead sovereignty, they demanded the restoration of the martyr, Vallandigham.
This was probably not exactly the sort of “book” Mr. Lincoln expected his “enemy” to write. Assuming the attitude of a judge toward a criminal, the committee “set his offences in order before him” with such searching fidelity, that the latter finds it necessary to put himself on the defensive, thus:—
“I am unable to perceive an insult to Ohio in the case of Vallandigham Quite surely, nothing of the sort was or is intended. I was wholly unaware that Mr. Vallandigham was, at the time of his arrest, a candidate for Governor, until so informed by your reading to me the resolutions of the Convention. I am grateful to the State of Ohio for many things, especially for the brave soldiers and officers she has given in the present national trial to the armies of the Union.”
He also tells them they can’t prove that he “opposed the policy of the Mexican war.” and parries the charge that he intends to “over-ride all the guaranteed rights of individuals.” He maintains, moreover, and we think with perfect success, that Vallandigham was a treason-aider, by stirring up resistance to the prosecution of the war against traitors and rebels. He also hints that the attitude of the members of the committee is liable to be mistaken for one of opposition to the Government in its efforts to save the Union, (although, of course, nothing of the sort is designed on their part, as he is perfectly well satisfied from his interview with them,) and he is so anxious to have them stand right before the world, that he will yield all they ask for Vallandigham if the committee will sign a paper, plainly acknowledging their own loyalty—yes, if ten, a bare majority of them, will sign a paper, committing them to the following propositions, viz:—
1. That there is now a rebellion in the United States, the object and tendency of which is to destroy the National Union; and that, in your opinion, an army and navy are constitutional means for suppressing that rebellion
2. That no one of you will do anything which, in his own judgment, will tend to hinder the increase, or favor the decrease, or lessen the efficiency of the army or navy, while engaged in the effort to suppress that rebellion; and,
3. That each of you will, in his sphere, do all he can to have the officers, soldiers and seamen of the army and navy, while engaged in the effort to suppress the rebellion, paid, fed, clad, and otherwise well provided and supported.
And with the further understanding that upon receiving the letter and names thus indorsed, I will cause them to be published, which publication shall be, within itself, a revocation of the order in relation to Mr. Vallandigham.
Now, do you suppose they did it? Not they! They scorned the proposition. They came in the name of universal Copperheadism to demand the unconditional revocation of the order banishing Vallandigham; and did the President presume to suppose they would purchase such revocation by themselves acknowledging that their Southern brethren are in rebellion, and that it is Constitutional to use the “army and navy.” against them; and by agreeing that they (the committee) would not oppose such use of the “army and navy,” or that they would use their influence to have the “army and navy” “paid, fed, clad, and otherwise well-provided and supported,” while being thus used? Monstrous! Preposterous! Shaking the dust from their feet, therefore, they strode with arrogant dignity from the Presidential presence.
Now, inasmuch as Sodom was left to its punishment because ten righteous men could not be found in it, so we hope Vallandigham will be compelled to receive a traitor’s deserts, since there are not ten Copperheads of Ohio found willing to refrain from treasonable practices to procure his pardon. We hope, without great confidence, however; for the Chicago Times—saved from Burnside’s suppressing grasp and restored to life by special interposition of the President—thus counsels the traitor’s return and his protection by the democracy of Ohio, in defiance of the Government:—
Mr. Vallandigham should not await any permission of the President to return. He should return on his own will and pleasure. He is said to have left the Confederacy, on his way to some one of the British Colonial ports, in a blockade runner—his only means of escape. He should, as is his right, boldly, in the light of day, come back to Ohio. If the Federal military authorities attempt to interfere with him, let them, and let the Democracy of Ohio, take care of him. Whenever he shall enter the United States, we cannot doubt that he will have an escort of thousands and when he shall enter Ohio, he will be received as man in this country has never been received before Let him come back, and himself vindicate his right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
We said we regretted the writing of this second letter by the President. We think that, by offering to let Vallandigham off, as he has, upon the slight-
<c06>
est possible semblance of an excuse, he has encouraged the Copperheads to think he feels himself in the wrong, and will not dare to interfere with him should he return defiantly to Ohio, as the Times advises. He has also compromised his own dignity by entering into a public discussion with rebel sympathizers of the right of Government to protect itself against rebels. The more a ruler argues with such wretches, (it matters little how well.) the weaker he makes his position.—Galesburg Free Democrat

VALLANDIGHAM’S SCHEME.
Clement L. Vallandigham, whom the Copperhead Democracy of Ohio have nominated for Governor, and whom the President is besought by a committee from Ohio to release from exile, is the man who, after the inauguration of the present Rebellion, proposed in Congress to so amend the Constitution as to legalize secession, and perpetuate the domination of the slaveholding class in the Government. The following is a brief synopsis of his iniquitous scheme, which may be found in full in the Congressional Globe of Feb. 7th, 1861:-
The United States are to be divided into four sections, one consisting of the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, to be known as the North; one consisting of the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Kansas, to be known as the West; the States of Oregon, California, and all the new States erected out of territory south of 36 deg. 30 min., and east of the Rocky Mountains to be known as the Pacific. The States of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky and Missouri, to constitute another section, to be known AS the South. On demand of one-third of the Senators of any one of the sections on any bill, order, resolution or vote, <illegible> a vote shall be had by sections, and a majority of the Senators of each section voting shall be necessary to the passage of such bill,” &c. A majority of all the Electors in each of the four sections were to be necessary to the election of the President and Vice President, thus giving to a part of the voters of one section only the power to prevent a choice. The President and Vice President were to hold their offices six years.
Article XIV. provides that any State may secede with the consent of the Legislatures of all States of the section to which the State proposing to secede belongs. This provision is palpably in the interest of the rebels, allowing, as it would, the secession of the whole South in a body, but refusing the privilege to a single State to secede from its section.”
We envy not the intelligence or discernment of any man who can examine the above scheme, and not be convinced that its author is a traitor to his country; or the loyalty of any man, who, being thus convinced, can support him for Governor of Ohio. Loyal Democrats, ponder it well!
Mr. Vallandigham claims to be a National Democrat. His friends have always professed to be horrified at the idea of sectional parties, or sectionalism of any kind. But here is a scheme founded on the most arrant sectionalism, and the sole end and object of which is to make sectionalism constitutional. By its adoption, a majority in one section of the Union would be enabled to control the policy or block the wheels of the Government; and, as there are no radical differences in sentiment or interest between the sections, save such as arise from the slavery of the South, it can be regarded only as a scheme to render the power of the slaveholder absolute and perpetual. It was for this purpose, and no other, that Mr. Vallandigham, at a time when the work of secession had been begun, sought to lay his sacrilegious bands on the Constitution of our fathers. Was it by such means that he hoped to preserve “the Constitution as it is,” and restore “the Union as it was”? And does any man suppose that, with the knowledge of his scheme of dismemberment, he can vote to elevate him to the Gubernatorial chair of Ohio, and yet be faithful to either?
It will not do to dismiss this subject with the assertion that Mr. Vallandigham is misrepresented or falsified by his political enemies. He is not a fool, but a man of admitted ability. We must, therefore, conclude that, in framing important amendments to the organic law of the country, he would use no idle or ambiguous words. He has used none. There stands the record, and, however plausible may be his professions, it is impossible to misunderstand it.— Jeffersonian Democrat.

COPPERHEADS AND THE CONSTITUTION.
We do know not whether Gov. Seymour, President Pierce, and others who spent the last Fourth of July in denouncing the administration, and getting up resolutions of admiration for that pure-minded patriot, Mr. Vallandigham, are all prepared to accept, as he does, the term “copperhead” as their appropriate and honorable designation. We do not know whether they wear the badge, so common in this city, of a breastpin manufactured from a mutilated penny. We do not know whether they acknowledge the New-York World and the New-York Copperhead as the approved organs of their party.
We only know that these sheets are their firmest supporters, and are engaged with them in propagating the same disloyal sentiments. If we are wrong in giving to the whole class the appellation of Copperhead, we beg pardon. We design no offence. The World regards the term Copperhead as synonymous with the orthodox Democratic party, and says that Secretary Stanton, by attacking the Copperheads in his short speech on the Fourth of July, made an “attack upon the party which he abandoned in taking office.” In addition to this, we have the fact that none of the party leaders who oppose this war have disclaimed the new name; we shall, therefore, take the liberty to use it as their special and appropriate designation.
What, now, are the principles and doctrines which this Copperheads party areendeavoring to instil into the community, and to carry out, by force of arms, whenever they find themselves strong enough to undertake the work? We copy, on another page, a handbill extensively circulated on the Fourth, which gives us a clear and practical view of the designs of the party. As that, however, was an unofficial and anonymous document, we will not hold such men as President Pierce and Gov. Seymour responsible for the language in which it is couched, but will take their own public and deliberate utterances as the exact expression of what they mean to do, and what they mean to encourage others, in doing. The burden of their oratory is, the sacredness of the Constitution, and the duty of defending it against the alleged despotism of President Lincoln. Says President Pierce-“ Even here in the loyal States, the mailed hand of military usurpation strikes down the liberties of the people, and its foot tramples on a desecrated Constitution.” He calls Vallandigham “that noble martyr of free speech,” and says, “the temporary agents of the sovereign people, the transitory administrators of the Government, tell us that, in time of war, the mere arbitrary will of the President takes the place of the Constitution.”

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its before true that the States who slavery exists have exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the commander of the army, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERPERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually la war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to every on the war, and must carry it on, according to the laws of War; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all Its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and martial power takes the PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
No man, not a traitor at heart, could thus deliberately calumniate the Government of his country for the purpose of arousing to madness the prejudiced multitude whom he is able to mislead by his falsehoods. Mr. Pierce well knows that it is he and his party, and not the President, who are fighting against the Constitution. He well knows that the Constitution gives to Congress the war power, and the making of all laws whereby such war is regulated; and he knows, too, that all such laws, made in conformity with the Constitution, are just as binding and sacred as the Constitution itself, and are the “supreme law of the land,” by the express provision of that instrument. He is now resisting and counselling resistance to these laws, under the lying pretence that they are unconstitutional. He well knows that the suspension of Habeas Corpus is a power distinctly given in time of war or insurrection; and he knows that, in accordance with this provision, Congress did, at its last session, enact that, “during the present rebellion, the President of the United States, whenever in his judgment the public safety may of require it, is authorized to suspend the writ of Habeas Corpus, IN ANY CASE, throughout the United States, or any part thereof. And whenever and where ever the said privilege shall be suspended as aforesaid, no military or other officer shall be compelled, in answer to any writ of Habeas Corpus, to return the body of any person or persons detained by him by authority of the President; but upon a certificate, under oath, of the officer having charge of any one so detained, that such person is detained by him as a prisoner under authority of the President, further proceedings under the writ of Habeas Corpus shall be suspended, by the judge or courts having issued the said writ, so long as said suspension by the President shall remain in force, and said rebellion continue.”
The World, in its comments on this act, at the time of its passage, said:-“With this tremendous power over the liberty of every citizen whom he may suspect, or whom he may choose to imprison without suspecting, the President is as absolute a despot as the Sultan of Turkey. All the guarantees of liberty are broken down; we all lie at the feet of one man, dependent on his caprice for every hour’s exemption from a bastile.” Very good; who is to blame? Who is it that has forced upon us this abridgment of our liberties? It is the World and its fellow-traitors that have made this extreme measure necessary; and now the whole country has to pay the penalty which these infamous Copperhead wretches have brought upon us. Why blame the President for making these arrests? He is bound to do it by his oath, which compels him to execute the laws. Why do Pierce and Seymour leave out of sight this act of Congress, and denounce the President, as if he were the usurper of dictatorial power? It is true that the power is an enormous one; it is true that it is repugnant to the normal condition of the Republic; it is true that with it, for the time being, the Government is able to put down domestic enemies with an iron hand; and this is just the power which we want the Government to have; it is just the power which the founders of the Republic meant it should have in a time like this, or they would never have incorporated the provision in the Constitution. We are glad to find that Messrs. Pierce, Wood, Vallandigham, and the editors of the World, feel uncomfortable under the operation of this constitutional power of the nation to protect itself. Our only regret is, that we have no Andrew Jackson to teach them the full meaning of it.
Gov. Seymour is equally explicit in charging the Government with violating the Constitution by making arrests:-
“I ask if it is not an evidence of weakness, defeat and discomfiture, when, in the presence of armed rebellion, the administration is compelled to hold that the very charter by which it holds its power has ceased to have a power that can protect a citizen in his rights? .Personal rights and personal liberties suspended during our revolutionary contest! You have heard the words of that Declaration of Independence, which said that men have a right to trial by jury; that the military authorities should never be exalted above the civil jurisdiction; that men should not be transported abroad for trial (tremendous applause); that they should have all the rights and privileges of English jurisprudence and English law. This doctrine of the suspension of the Constitution, the doctrine, of the suspension of the laws, is unconstitutional, is unsound, is unjust, is treasonable!” (Tremendous applause.)
Who is it that teaches this doctrine of the suspension of the Constitution and laws? It is not the President-it is Gov. Seymour. He defies the act of Congress; be tramples it in the dust. He declares that which the Constitution makes the supreme law of the land to be no law, but to be “unjust and treasonable.” Is it the prerogative of Gov. Seymour to decide on the constitutionality of the acts of Congress? Is he the Supreme Court? Hear him threaten:-
“Is it not revolution which you are thus creating, when you say that our persons may be rightfully seized, our property confiscated, our homes entered? Remember this, that the bloody and treasonable and revolutionary doctrine of public necessity can be proclaimed by a mob as well as by a government.” (Applause.)
It is well to keep in mind the circumstances under which the Governor of New York thus denounced an express provision of the Constitution, and the law of Congress made in pursuance thereof. It was while the terrible struggle in Pennsylvania was supposed to be yet pending, and when our prospects were so dark that the Governor said he did not come before his audience “as one animated by expected victories”: it was while the fate of our armies at Vicksburg and Port Hudson hung dubious in the scale: it was while incendiary placards in favor of the South were being scattered through the city, with simultaneous reports of an intended conspiracy to seize the New-York arsenal on the evening of our national anniversary, establish a Provisional Government, and offer the dictatorship to McClellan! Had Meade experienced a defeat, there is little doubt the programme would have been carried out to the letter. Gov. Seymour takes great credit to himself for having forwarded troops to succor Pennsylvania in her distress, but he can make half an hour’s speech without a single syllable of reproach or blame for the rebels or their cause. His namesake, Thomas H. Seymour, the Copperhead (ex-Governor of Connecticut, followed him with a speech exonerating the South from the guilt of bringing on the war, and declaring that “we could not compel States to remain in the Union by force of arms.”
And yet these men complain bitterly that they are charged with disloyalty. In the trying hour of the nation’s agony, when our very existence depends on the success of our arms, they are using every effort to show that the South is right, and the North wrong; that we cannot and ought not to conquer. Says President Pierce:-
“My judgment compels me to rely upon moral force, and not upon any of the coercive instrumentalities of military power. We have seen, in the experience of the last two years, how futile are all our efforts to maintain the Union by force of arms; but even had war been carried on by us successfully, the ruinous result would exhibit its utter impracticability for the attainment of the desired end. Through peaceful agencies, and through such agencies alone, can we hope to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, etc. I speak of the war as fruitless; for it is clear that, prosecuted upon the basis of the proclamations of September 22d and September 24th, 1862, prosecuted as I must understand those proclamations, to say nothing of the kindred brood which has followed, upon the theory of emancipation, devastation, subjugation, it cannot fail to be fruitless in everything except the harvest of woe which it is now ripening for what was once the peerless republic.”
The attempt to shirk the responsibility of opposing the war, by professing to oppose it only as it is conducted on a wrong basis, will not avail the Copperheads. The pretence is too shallow. The basis, and the only basis of war, is the defence of a nation’s Government and laws. Emancipation is the law of the land. Confiscation is the law of the land. He that opposes the laws of his country, otherwise than by constitutional changes, is the enemy of his country. The Copperheads seek to subvert the emancipation and confiscation acts, and to change the Constitution into a pro-slavery instrument, by overthrowing the present Government. It is true, they are not personally in arms against the Government, but they give aid and comfort to the men who are in arms against it. They are traitors to the spirit, if not to the letter, of the Constitution. It needs but the occasion to bring them out in open array on the side of the enemy. There were thousands in New-York city, in hotel, street and counting- house whose countenances on the morning of July Fourth were smiling, joyous, defiant, over our anticipated defeats. The evening found them downcast, the next day still more gloomy, and the fall of Vicksburg completed their humiliation. It was surprising to see how quickly their countenances again brightened on 
<c02>
the first blush of a rumor that our cavalry were repulsed, and Gen. Kilpatrick slain. Such men ought not to be tolerated amongst us. The power which Congress has given the President should not be suffered to remain a dead letter, while these coppery reptiles are watching an opportunity to strike their poisonous fangs into the heart of our republican government. It is false to say, as Gov. Seymour does, that in the trying times of the Revolution, our fathers guaranteed to the tory plotters in their midst the same privileges of free speech, free action, inviolate homes, and trial by jury, that would have been allowed them in time of peace. A coat of tar and feathers, and an unceremonious expulsion to the enemy’s lines, was the very mildest treatment a copperhead might expect in those days. Having no special law upon the subject, the patriots of Seventy-Six were a law to themselves; but now, in our more advanced civilization, we wisely entrust these cases of discipline to the President, rather than to local committees. The tar and feathers, and the uncomfortable method of transportation on a rail, we have dispensed with: but we must insist on retaining the main feature of the discipline, which is the right to remove these dangerous plotters from our midst, as the President has removed Vallandigham, until their opportunity for mischief is past-American Baptist.

THE NORTHERN REBELLION.
It is to the credit of human nature that great wickedness seems always incredible. The columns of the daily papers have been crowded for six days with the atrocious cruelties and the savage excesses of the last week-cruelties and excesses unexampled in the history of riots, with the exception, possibly, of those of the first French Revolution-and yet the people find it hard to believe that these are not gross exaggerations. The Northern American character, modified and enervated by half a century of peace and prosperity, cannot be made to comprehend that low type of the race which has been produced in another country by the combined influence of a faith that first enchains and then darkens the human mind, a tyrannical government, the most abject poverty, and a vicious system of in-and-in breeding. The result has been a creature with all the brutal passions and instincts of man in the first savage state, with some vague intelligence of the material strength of civilization and power to use it, but without any of the higher intellectual and moral qualities which belong to the age. It is this class, made fat and strong upon American food, and licentious under American liberty, that broke all bounds ten days ago, and committed deeds of cruelty over which a Sioux would have screamed with delight. But why they should have broken bounds, why they should have thus suddenly defied the restraints of law at this particular moment, is the question that really needs to be answered, and the only rational solution of which people are even slower to accept than the relations of the shocking inhumanity of the rioters. Nevertheless, the truth must be told fearlessly, and well for the people if they believe it in season.
The riots of last week were not the mere passionate outbreak of a popular discontent, but the first act of an attempted revolution. The rioters themselves have been excited by the Copperhead press and Copperhead speeches, and still more by diligent and numerous emissaries visiting the haunts of vice, by discontent with the draft, and by that appeal which never fails with the vicious-the hatred of the rich. They only knew that at a certain time they were to rise-it might be on one pretext, it might be on another, but the draft was a convenient one at this moment. It was, of course, impossible to fix a limit to their excess, or to confine the torrent of their unbridled lust to a single channel. The first point was to create a riot, and to control it afterwards, if possible, into an organized revolution.
We are not, we beg our readers to understand, building up a theory or indulging in conjectures from which to draw plausible deductions. We are dealing in facts. The draft was a pretext for the riot; the riot was intended by the Peace party as a Northern revolution which should overthrow the Government, overawe the North, and compel it to accept such terms of peace from Jeff. Davis as he, under such circumstances, would consent to give us.
Go back to the moment when Lee moved from the Rappahannock. The rebels knew better than we did that Vicksburg and Port Hudson could hold out but a little longer; that Bragg must fall back before Rosecrans, incapable of doing anything better than escape and disperse, if that should be possible; that Charleston would probably be ours on the first vigorous attack; that Mobile must soon follow; and that, all these events accomplished, for which a few weeks only were needed, the Southern rebellion would no longer have an existence, except in Lee’s army. Some great, bold stroke alone could save the Confederacy, and if its Northern friends were ever to help it, they must do so now or never. Lee broke camp, marched a hundred and fifty miles northward, and invaded Pennsylvania.
If he had no friends in front of him, and an enemy in his rear, no General ever did a madder thing. The enemy in his rear he despised, and believed he could easily dispose of; and he had friends in front. He reached the free States unmolested; the next step was to dispose of Hooker. But just here the plot halted; he did not dispose of Hooker, but Meade disposed of him. That saved the North.
For had Lee defeated the Army of the Potomac, the next step was to march either upon Philadelphia, Baltimore, or Washington, as might seem best. Riots were to break out over the North, following an example first set in this city; the loyal North was to be held in terror and subjection; Stephens, the rebel Vice-President, was to be in Washington to dictate the terms of peace which Lee’s bayonets were to enforce. That New York might be utterly powerless at this juncture, her troops, for the first time in her history, were all sent away-with an alacrity which surprised everybody then, but the motive of which is apparent enough now-on a pretence of repelling invasion. It was to welcome Lee! So complete was this plan, so well matured, and so certain was it deemed of success, that the Richmond journals prematurely announced the defeat of the Army of the Potomac; prematurely discussed the terms of peace which the conquerors would condescend to grant the conquered; prematurely announced that while Lee would march victoriously into a northern capital, the Northern people would be held in subjection by insurrections among themselves. And all this was to happen on the 4th of July, when this city was checkered with posters calling on the citizens to rise in rebellion against the Government, and Gov. Seymour was at the Cooper Institute with perhaps a fitting speech for such an occurrence, which he certainly did not have for the actual occasion. The battle of Gettysburg discomposed the plans of the conspirators, and sent Lee flying back across the Potomac. Then came the news of the fall of Vicksburg. Clearly, the rebellion which was to ride triumphantly into power over the ruins of the Government and the necks of the people, stretching out the hand of good fellowship to Northern conspirators who had helped it at the right moment, was not culminating in triumph, but, sinking in helplessness and disgrace. Could that which was meant to help it merely save it? A Northern revolution which was to help it to brilliant and final success, must now save it from utter destruction. It was the only hope of Southern rebellion and Northern copperheadism.
Hence the riots were inevitable. Gov. Seymour told the rioters, in a speech on Tuesday of last week, from the City Hall steps-when he called these men, the hands of many of whom were red with blood and their arms full of plunder stolen from burning houses, his “noble-hearted friends”-that he had sent to Washington on Saturday to procure the stopping of the draft. Why? Clearly because he knew, as hundreds of others not in the plots of the conspirators had been told, the insurrection was to commence on Monday. What did he do? He went where it would be impossible for him to be called upon to interfere till it was under full headway. It was put down in spite of him by Gen. Brown and the police. The real cause of the retiring of Gen. Brown is, that he was determined to suppress the riot by shooting the rioters, while Gov. Seymour and Gen. Sandford did all in their power to prevent it, and it was not till the last stages of the revolt, when the soldiers were fired upon from the houses, that the militia were permitted in self-defence to use ball-cartridge. On Friday, Gov. Seymour forbade that the arms should be taken from the houses of the rioters, where they were found in abundance; on Monday, he orders all loyal citizens to disband their organizations, and return the arms in their hands to the arsenal! Is any man so daft as not to understand?
Great wickedness, as we said at the onset, always seems incredible, and the wickedness of these plot-
<c03>
ters against the Government, the freedom, and the welfare of the people of this country, is far more difficult to believe, because more infamous than the deeds of cruelty of the wretches whom they have hounded on to excesses to compass the ends of their own bad ambition. But we cannot escape the evidence of our senses. We may faint with horror, or be aghast with terror, at the recital of the deeds of blood of the Irish gorillas who ravaged the city a week ago. Nevertheless, we must believe them, for the evidence is not to be gainsaid. And the evidence is hardly less positive and patent, that the riot was intended as the beginning of a revolution by the copperhead party in aid of the Southern rebellion; that when it got beyond the control of the conspirators, and into the hands of ruffians, who meant to sack and burn the city, partly from love of plunder and partly from natural depravity, even then it was stopped with reluctance; and that they still hope to hold these elements under control for some future demonstration for the same purpose- the overthrow of the Government and the supremacy of the Southern rebels. The one way to avert this new peril is to recognize it in time, and be prepared for it. When South Carolina went out of the Union, it was laughed at as a joke, and that merry jest has cost us a hundred thousand lives and a thousand millions of money already. That experience should have brought us wisdom enough at least to comprehend a purpose which the conspirators hardly pretend to disguise-to take New York out of the Union. The attempt will end in their destruction if we prepare for it; in the destruction of free government, and all that will go with it, if we do not.-New York Independent.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 31, 1863.
FIRST OF AUGUST!
Emancipation the only Safe and Just Policy.
The 29th Anniversary of West India Emancipation will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at
ISLAND GROVE, ABINGTON, 
on SATURDAY, August 1st; to which all are invited who desire that, hereafter, it may be in our power to celebrate the anniversary of a day which shall see every slave in the United States emancipated, and every root of slavery extirpated from the American soil. Come, all friends of liberty! Aid us in making this the most effective meeting for justice and for our country ever held on Old Colony ground. Let the true word give impulse to the right, just and brave deed; and every heart be nerved afresh with the determination to utterly crush the rebellion of the slaveholders, South and North, and with the rebellion, its origin, support, motive, and end-Human SLAVERY.
Among the expected speakers are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, F. B. SANBORN, THEODORE D. WELD, WM. WELLS BROWN, and others.
An Excursion Train, on the Old Colony Railroad, will leave the Depot, Kneeland Street, Boston, at 91/4, A. M. on that day. Leave Plymouth at 9.20, A. M. Both trains will stop at usual way stations, and at the Grove.
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 51/4, P. M.
FARES-Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Neponset, Quincy and Braintree, to the Grove and back, for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
Plymouth, Kingston, Plympton, and Halifax, to the Grove and back, half the usual rates.
Excursion tickets good on other trains.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Abington Town Hall, near the Grove.
By order of the Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R. F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.
THE FIRST OF AUGUST MEETING AT ABINGTON GROVE. We have the pleasure of saying to all, who design being present at this meeting, that there is a prospect that our friends, ASA HUTCHINSON, wife and children, will be present, adding to the interest of the occasion by their cheering songs for Freedom. A large attendance, worthy of the occasion, it is hoped and believed will be present.
MR. HEYWOOD’S ADDRESS. In publishing, at his request, Mr. Heywood’s Address on “The War Method of Peace,” in the Liberator of the 17th inst., we purposely abstained from criticising its statements, deductions and conclusions, on the ground that, in the midst of the earthquake and whirlwind of an unparalleled civil war, we deemed it an inopportune period to agitate the question of Non-Resistance. Our worthy correspondent, “H. H. B.,” dissents from this opinion, and regards this as the very time for such an agitation; because, as he says, “the time to rebuke sin is while sin abounds.” But we still believe with Solomon, that there is a time to be silent as well as to speak. Good sense as well as moral integrity is to be consulted, in the one case as well as in the other; and we are firm in the conviction already expressed, that this is not the best period for an abstract ethical discussion of the question of Non-Resistance. Especially do we consider it very unfortunate for any one, claiming to be a Non-Resistant, who so enforces the doctrine as to give “aid and comfort” to traitors and their copperhead sympathizers at this particular crisis. That doctrine is as dear to us as ever; and the friendly solicitude of “H. H. B.” as to our fidelity and consistency is duly appreciated.
As to the statement alleged by our friend “G. W. S.” to have been made by Mr. Hey wood, at Milford, that we had so far “fallen from grace” as to declare “that the President was in fault for not hanging Vallandigham,” if it was left by Mr. H. without explanation, it did us flagrant injustice. That explanation should have been that, arguing within the scope and on the plane of governmental action,-Mr. Vallandigham being, in our opinion, a traitor of the most malignant type,-the President, instead of sending him to the rebels, should have had him capitally executed. What this view of the case has to do with our Non-Resistance consistency, we are unable to perceive.
But we stop here-determined not to be dragged into a discussion which we regard as equally untimely and unprofitable.
ACHBISHOP HUGHES AND THE NEW YORK RIOTERS. Referring to the very reprehensible address of Archbishop Hughes to the Irish rioters, whom he requested to assemble in front of his residence, in whose countenances he declared himself unable to perceive that of a single rioter, and to whom he administered flattery instead of reproof, the Boston Pionier makes the following pertinent remarks:-
“Has there any where in modern times a priest exhibited greater insolence than the author of this call, who, in the midst of a raging riot, turns away from his door like an autocrat the civil and military authorities of the land? And in fact the authorities obeyed his bidding, and at the appointed time there gathered a crowd of 4000 believers-a genuine review of mutineers, whom their spiritual General, to be sure, admonished to restrain themselves, but at the same time washed of all reproach for the outbreak, and, as it were, en masse absolved, after they for nearly a whole week had burnt and murdered worse than Cossacks!
And nobody has thought of blaming the priest, but he is praised as an author of peace. The eyes of Americans will perhaps ere long be opened to the consequences of the tenderness which they have shown, in the name of ‘religious freedom’ and from party considerations, to the agents of the Romish establishment for the murder of peoples and republics.”
COL. HIGGINSON. A letter from an officer in the first South Carolina reg’t states that Col. Higginson, injured by the concussion from a shell, is doing well. In the raid he captured 250 contrabands, a lot of cotton, and Lieut. Barnwell, though he was kept from burning the bridge by a field battery. Col. Higginson arrived in Worcester on Monday, direct from his field of service in South Carolina, on a brief furlough.
<c04>
CONDITIONS OF PEACE.
The set of men among us who are constantly crying “Peace, Peace,” when there is no peace, are not less mischievous than those we read of among the ancient Hebrews. In every Northern State and city are men who love slavery and uphold the cause of the slaveholders; and these are ready on all occasions to give their voices for terms of accommodation with the rebels, and for the renewal of that protection which the Federal Government has been accustomed to give to slavery. As the brandy-drinker finds all possible atmospheric conditions-hot and cold, wet and dry-alike specially suitable for recurrence to his favorite indulgence, so these men persist in representing our condition at the present moment, whether it be success or defeat, as eminently opportune for reconciliation and reconstruction.
We therefore, the loyalists, the friends of liberty, of just government and of free institutions, need to keep constantly before our own minds and before the public, that one condition which is the indispensable requisite of permanent peace, and which should be recognized by both people and government as such. Slavery must be abolished, extirpated, in every rebel State, before its admission as a member of our Republican family can be conceded. No one particular of the immensely important transactions of the next ten years is so important as this.
This matter is well stated in an article in the Atlantic Monthly for August, entitled “Political Problems, and Conditions of Peace.” After quoting abundant authority for his doctrine from Wheaton, and Vattel, and Chancellor Kent, the writer says:
“Our rights as belligerents are ample for our security in time to come. The Rebel States will not cease to be enemies by being defeated and exhausted and disabled from continuing active hostilities. They have invoked the laws of war, and they must abide the decision of the tribunal to which they have appealed. We may hold them as enemies until they submit to such reasonable terms of peace as we may demand. Whether we shall require any indemnity for the vast expenditures and losses to which we have been subjected is a question of great magnitude; but it is of little importance compared with that of guarding against a recurrence of the Rebellion, by removing the cause of it. It would be worse than madness to restore them to all their former rights under the government they have done their utmost to destroy, and at the same time permit them to retain a system that would surely involve us or our children in another struggle of the same kind.
Slavery and freedom cannot permanently coexist under the same government. There is an inevitable, perpetual, irrepressible conflict between them. The present rebellion is but the culmination of this conflict, long existing,-transferred from social and political life to the camp and the battle-field. In the new arena, we have all the rights of belligerents in an international war. Slavery has taken the sword; let it perish by the sword. If we spare it, its wickedness will be exceeded by our folly. As victors, the world concedes our right to demand, for our own future peace, as the only terms of restoration, not only the abolition of Slavery in all the Rebel States, but its prohibition in all coming time. It cannot be, that, with the terrible lessons of these passing years, we shall be so utterly destitute of wisdom and prudence as to leave our children exposed to the dangers of another rebellion, after entailing upon them the vast burdens of this, by our national debt.”
This writer, it seems to me, might well have taken the wider ground of demanding an abolition of slavery throughout the country. The most effective way of assailing that villanous system in the rebel States would be first to extirpate it from the States called loyal, and thus make the regions of rebellion and slavery identical in form, as they are in fact. Let us be warned by the error of our fathers against assuming that slavery will dwindle and die of itself in a few years. Let not one particle of a weed so prolific be left with a concession of its right to exist in the soil of the United States of America.-C. K. W.
In the Tower Hamlets Express of June 20th is given an interesting account of some festivities at Bromley, to welcome Rev. J. Sella Martin, who has recently accepted a call to the pastorate of the Free Christian Church at that place. The attendance was large, and the meeting enthusiastic. Rev. W. H. Bonner, Herbert Thompson, Esq., and many other clergymen and gentlemen were present, and the interest of the meeting was enhanced by the presence of Mrs. Ellen Craft and her two youthful sons. Mr. William Craft is now absent on an important mission to the king of Dahomey.-C. K. W.
NEW MUSIC. We are indebted to Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, for the following pieces just published by that firm:-
Children’s Toys. A set of twelve easy, melodious and instructive pieces for the piano, by A. Baumbach.
Golden Shower Tremolo, from the Piano Forte Album, a selection of brilliant and fascinating gems by eminent composers.
Ballad from the Armorer of Nantes, grand romantic opera by M. W. Balfe.
Onward Forever. Song by Ferdinand Gumbert.
The Miseries of Sneezing. Words and Music by Ossian E. Dodge.
I’m Coming Home to Die. By the same author.
THE CONTINENTAL, for August, has been received by A. Williams & Co. It contains its usual variety of interesting articles, of which the most prominent is one by Robert J. Walker, written from London, on “Jefferson Davis and Repudiation.” Mr. Walker fixes on Davis the stigma of Mississippi repudiation, in an elaborate argument, supported by abundant facts. In this case, the accuser speaks of matters about which he is necessarily familiar. He closes with the remark: “As Jefferson Davis is now at the head of a slaveholding conspiracy, endeavoring to destroy the government of my country, and is now also engaged in selling worthless Confederate bonds in this market, I have deemed it my duty to make this publication.” The following is the table of contents:-1. Our Future. By Lieut. Egbert Phelps, U. S. A. 2. Autumn Leaves. By Mrs. M. W. Cook. 3. Across Maine in Mid-Winter. 4. Diary of Frances Kraisnska. 5. The Sleeping Peri. 6. My Lost Darling. 7. Reason, Rhyme, and Rhythm. Compiled and written by Mrs. M. W. Cook. 8. The Buccaneers of America. By W. L. Stone. 9. Under the Palmetto. By H. G. Spaulding. 10. The Spirit’s Reproach. By Mrs. M. W. Cook. 11. Jefferson Davis and Repudiation. A Letter from Hon. Robert J. Walker. 12. Evergreen Beauty. By Major Samuel H. Hurst. 13. Dying in the Hospital. By Mary E. Nealy, Louisville, Ky. Literary Notices. Editor’s Table.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for August, is received, with the following varied and attractive table of contents:-1. An American in the House of Lords. By Francis Wayland, Jr. 2. Theodore Winthrop’s Writings. By Charles Nordhoff. 3. Hilary. By Lucy Larcom. 4. Derby’s Debut. By Louisa M. Alcott. 5. Wet Weather Work. By Donald G. Mitchell. 6. Civic Banquets. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. 7. The Geological Middle Ages. By Louis Agassiz. 8. The White-Throated Sparrow. 9. Fleur-de-lis in Florida. By Francis Parkman. 10. Seaward. 11. Side Glances at Harvard Class Day. By Gail Hamilton. 12. Love’s Challenge. By T. W. Parsons. 13. Political Problems and Conditions of Peace. By Judge Woodbury Davis. Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields, Publishers.
HARPER’S MONTHLY, for August, 1863, contains the following table of contents:-1. Scenes in the War of 1812-III-Harrison and Perry. 2. An American Family in Germany. 3. Eulalie. 4. Cemeteries. 5. The Battle and Triumph of Dr. Susan-Part I. 6. Sir Guy of Brittany. 7. My Heart and I. 8. Romola. 9. The Small House at Allington. 10. Making a Will. 11. Our Contraband. 12. Artist-Philosopher-Lover. Monthly Record of Current News, &c. &c. A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington street.
The New York merchants and other benevolent persons have already generously contributed thirty thousand dollars in aid of the colored victims of the riots in that city.
<c05>
LETTER.
DEAR SIR-You ask me how we, who have hither to been disunionists, now join in supporting the Union.
I answer:-
We refused to take office and swear to support the Constitution because we could not promise to do what we thought sin-return slaves to their masters, for instance, as required by the Constitution.
Further than that, our effort to break the Union was only a means to an end. Our object was the abolition of slavery.
No man can foresee the future, or certainly tell even the immediate, much less the final, results of any measure. We must act on probabilities, and use those rightful means within our reach which seem most likely to end an evil perfectly, in the shortest time, and with the least harm. On this principle, in the old times of peace, we labored to break the Union as the best and quickest way to end slavery.
Let me remind you that we never undervalued Union-never had any objection to Union-but only to a Union on pro-slavery conditions, one that supported and strengthened slavery.
The disunion we sought was one which should be begun by the North on principle, from conscientious objection to upholding slavery. Such a division of the Union would have given us a Nation in the North, united on high principle, able to defend itself, rigid against granting any pro-slavery advantage to its Southern neighbor; and the vicinity and example of such a North would have cooperated with the essential weakness of all slaveholding governments in finally abolishing slavery at the South. Such disunion must have been brought about by a public opinion throughout the North adverse to slavery, and would have guaranteed one for the future. The agitation for such disunion, based on the idea that slavery is a sin, to be immediately repudiated at every cost, was the most direct and efficient way of educating the public to a stern anti-slavery principle. You see, therefore, that the abolition of slavery was our object, disunion our weapon-and our method of reaching it was to convert the Nation, and create a strong anti-slavery public opinion.
We sought such disunion for the slave’s sake, well knowing, all the time, how much of what his toil had fairly earned disunion would sacrifice, but convinced that, as things then stood, it was the quickest and shortest way to free him. We knew also that our plan would leave the slave to struggle up to freedom against a thousand obstacles, alone and unaided, vexed and hampered by a reluctant master; but that disadvantage was inevitable, and seemed no sufficient reason why we should forego the only method which promised him any speedy and certain relief.
We held that, for such reasons-the rights of the slave and the sin (for anti-slavery men) of upholding the Constitution-the North had the right of revolution-the right to break the Union; and that such division would sooner end slavery than continuing under a Constitution which forbade the North, during peace, to interfere with the slave system of the Southern States.
War came. The South began a war on the Nation. To accept disunion then, one not begun by an anti-slavery North, but forced on a reluctant and half-converted North, though it would have killed slavery in the end, would have lost the slave his share in the Nation he helped to found, and would have left the slave, obstructed in his path to freedom by great obstacles, unpitied, unaided, vexed and hampered by an embittered master. Such disunion, too, would probably have helped to prolong slavery, seeing that such a North would have been willing to grant its pro-slavery neighbor many advantages, the re-capture of slaves, &c.-and the conflict of two such nationalities would have entailed perpetual war.
On the contrary, the first gun the South fired gave the Nation the constitutional right to abolish slavery wherever its flag floats, showed that such a measure would inevitably be necessary, and that the Union must probably cease, or rest on the equal liberty of all races.
In these circumstances, the Abolitionists, who were not peace men, and had never asserted the sinfulness of war, perceived that the war itself would produce an overwhelming national opinion adverse to slavery sooner than any other agency. The manifestation war must make of the nature and designs of the Slave Power would inevitably make every Unionist an Abolitionist.
The need of the negro in the conflict would destroy prejudice against color more speedily than any other means could, and his presence in the army would be the first step to civil equality.
We saw that the preservation of the Union would efficiently protect the negro in his transition to perfect freedom, and that the Nation he helped to create owed him this aid, which is of vast importance.
As things stood, therefore, since the war-
1st. The Union means liberty, and to save itself must free the blacks. To uphold it in this struggle for existence, is the readiest way to convert the nation into Abolitionists. One year of such war is worth, for this purpose, twenty years of peaceful agitation.
2d. The Union protects the slave in his transition to liberty, and makes that passage speedy and easy.
3d. It saves him and ourselves all the benefits of a Nationality which his toil and ours has earned in three generations.
4th. It ensures peace throughout North America.
At the present time, therefore, the preservation of the Union gives us all these benefits we have aimed at, and some we never expected to secure by our old plan.
Perhaps all these benefits might have been gained better and cheaper in other ways. But God disposes, the choice is not left with us; we must enter at the door he opens. We had hoped that it would be, and labored that it should be, one of peace; but to him it has seemed otherwise, and we submit.
We can easily see that war may, perhaps, be the only path to emancipation for a century to come. Peace, on which we had counted, has one danger. The constant sight of successful iniquity is as likely to dull the conscience as to waken it. We could not be certain that, in the struggle between right and interest, the triumph might not be, for a long while, on the wrong side. No one could be sure that our Union, spite of the anti-slavery enterprise, would not have sunk, for many years, into a strong, rich, corrupt, pro-slavery nation, greedy of territory, callous to right, and trampling a victim race under its money-seeking feet. The sharp sword of war kills or cures at once; and as God has linked success with justice, we must either be whipped into a people hating slavery as their conqueror, or we must be successful with justice for our ally-the negro our acknowledged equal and brother.
We see, nevertheless, the use of our Disunion Agitation. If we did not fully convert the community by our cry, “Liberty and justice are better than Union,” we so far leavened their minds and wakened their consciences that when the war came, the hour found them ready to accept the issue. When the question was put,-the old Union with slavery, or a new one without it,-the people have been found far more ready than any man had supposed to answer. Give us, at any cost, Union and freedom, pledge of peace and permanence.
In a word, the slave’s cause led us to disunion, when disunion seemed the only way within our reach to free him. Now we cling to the Union for the same reason. We can uphold it without dishonor-and it has become the strongest weapon in the slave’s behalf-the shortest path to his liberty.
The terms of the Constitution may still, for a while, shut us out of office; but that is temporary. The spirit of the Union is liberty to all races and every individual. Without that, it must die.
The Union whose life we strive to protect is not one settled, at peace, with a million slaves in its Border States. But it is a nation in the throes of its birth, in its transition and forming state, with the right to free every slave in its limits, willing to free every such slave, and obliged to do so, if it continues to exist.
<c06>
While this necessity rests on it, while it agonizes to do this duty, we feel that our place is at its side. If, betrayed by its leaders, it ever settles down into any, the least, systematic toleration of slavery, it will find us, as before, its foes.
You may say the results we expect from this war are not absolutely certain to follow. True. No man can be absolutely sure of the correctness of his judgment; certainly, not in a matter of such complexity as this, where all statesmen have proved false prophets. But we must act on the wisest judgment we can form. Doubtless, the war may cease, and, by the treason and tricks of politicians, leave slavery alive. But I am as sure as I can be of anything, that, a hundred years hence, history, looking back on our era, will record that slavery received its death-blow from this rebellion undertaken in its behalf.
Yours, WENDELL PHILLIPS.
July 21st, 1863.

WOMEN’S LOYAL LEAGUE ASSOCIATION.
OFFICE OF THE WOMEN’S LOYAL NATIONAL LEAGUE, ROOM 20 COOPER INSTITUTE, NEW YORK, July 25, 1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND-Enclosed are copies of the Pledge, Petitions, Letter of Instruction, and Tract, which the Women’s Loyal National League is sending among the people, so far as it can get the means to meet the cost. Already six thousand packages have been mailed, through the liberal and timely contributions of Gerrit Smith of Peterboro,’ and Schieppelin Brothers of this city, of one hundred dollars each, and John Jay, twenty-five dollars, together with the numerous smaller sums from friends equally earnest and equally liberal, in proportion to their ability.
To these few petitions, the women of the country are sending in most cheering promise of work in obtaining signatures. The rural districts, we have every assurance, will be thoroughly canvassed. We must now devise some plan to rouse the cities to efficient action. Boston, surely, should take the initiative; she is ever proud to be named the first in the race for freedom.
And, now that we hope and earnestly pray this may be the last time the people of this nation will be called upon to enroll their names to ask Congress to give freedom to the slave, let us all give our most earnest thought, word and deed to the work. And let not the OLD ABOLITIONISTS-they who have petitioned city, State and nation, times without number, during the past thirty years, to grant some pittance of the boon of freedom to the black man-now trust the burden of this work to the younger converts to the cause; for they who are converted by the stern “logic of events”-by the arguments of the bullet and the bayonet, put their trust alone in the war. The power that opened their eyes they believe equal to the accomplishment of the entire work. They see not that the war, even, is the result of the untiring, never ceasing labors of those they have been wont to call the “do-nothing Abolitionists.” They, most of them, really believe “the day for debate and petition is passed,” and have no faith in any power but that of the bullet. But the old standard-bearers of the cause of freedom, who have fought the good fight for a quarter of a century, are surely the ones who in these last days will finish their faith by one more mighty appeal to the power of truth and justice to prevail with the law-makers of the nation.
Before me are two remarkable pictures-one, So journer Truth-Mrs. Stowe’s “Lybian Sybil”-the other, a Louisiana slave. The former, minus three fingers, chopped off by her cruel New York master; the latter with bared back, glaring its countless calloused blood-cuts of the slave-driver’s lash; both grand faces, telling the noble souls within.
There lives not the human being, were that grand woman his mother, or that splendid man his father, who could trust his or her and their children, and children’s children’s chance of escape from such living death, to the uncertain fates of war alone. He would pray, and urge every other man and woman to invoke every other power of the nation, to proclaim, to enact, to decree, any and every man’s claim to “property in man,” forever null and void. No, no-military power is not enough-added to it must be civil law, positive Congressional enactment, that henceforth “slaves cannot breathe” where floats the flag of the American Union.
The old Abolitionists, who know the subtle thread by which Slavery clings to life, must now work to the end, and more earnestly and effectively, if possible, than ever, to make sure that not the smallest loophole be left in the statute law of the nation, through which the monster crime may wind itself into the new Union that shall come, when the sword shall have done its bloody work.
I began with the purpose to ask you, Mr. Garrison, to say the word of encouragement to your long tried and faithful Liberator readers, and ask them to take hold of the work of circulating Emancipation Petitions to Congress, now we have the hope that this shall be the last time we shall have the hard work to do-now that we have the hope that this last mammoth petition of millions of the best men and women of the nation will be the last ounce that shall break the back of Slavery, and forever bury the frightful, hateful thing beyond the fear of resurrection. Any and every word you can say to help us in our mighty under-taking will be most gratefully received by us, and all the poor and despised for whom you have so long and so faithfully labored.
Yours, ever gratefully,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
Sec’y Women’s L. N. League
Most heartily do we respond to the appeal made by Miss Anthony in behalf of the Loyal Women’s National Association, and trust it will stimulate to universal activity in the procurement of signatures to the Mammoth Petition alluded to. Let the resolve go forth, inflexibly, for the total abolition of slavery by the next Congress-[-Ed. Lib.

LADIES’ LOYAL LEAGUE MEETING.
There was a very interesting and pleasant meeting of the ladies at the Loyal League at the Cooper Institute on Friday, July 17th. Mrs. Bates occupied the chair. Miss Anthony and others addressed the meeting, showing the necessity of petitioning Congress for the immediate abolition of Slavery-“the cause of all our woe.” The use of the bullet and the bayonet in putting down Rebels and rioters does not preclude the necessity of petition, and now is the time for the friends of Emancipation to bestir themselves to shut up every avenue that leads to a continuation of Slavery. The following resolutions were presented by Mrs. S. E. Draper, and adopted by the meeting without a dissenting vote:
Whereas, our friends are from day to day accompanying their donations with this remark-“that they feel the time for debate and petitions past, that the present events are working out the grand problem of the negro’s future.” Therefore,
Resolved, 1st, That while we fully agree with them in this, we feel that the events themselves have been caused and brought about by earnest and persistent moral efforts, and that such efforts are by no means to be now abandoned.
Resolved, also, That as the late riots in our city have fully proved the dangers which attend the negro in all States where his rights of citizenship are not fully admitted, therefore we feel the necessity pressing upon us still more forcibly, of using all the moral enginery in our power-if, so be, we may move thereby Congress fully to grant, what we honestly believe it has full powers in the present crisis legally and constitutionally to grant, the emancipation of all the African race in our midst.
Resolved, That we urge in every possible way on the Legislatures of our different loyal States, the deep and imperative duty of securing to these people of different color, full and inalienable rights of citizenship.
Resolved, That as after the work of emancipation shall be fully accomplished, the necessity for funds for all Anti-Slavery purposes will be wholly or at least is a great measure done away with, therefore, we urge the friends of the negro to come forward boldly, and pour out liberally of their abundance, to aid us in our great and good undertaking.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ADDRESS OF PROFESSOR E. D. BASSIETT, 
Read at a Meeting held at National Hall, Philadelphia, July 6, for the promotion of Colored Enlistments.
“Men of Color, to Arms! Now or Never! This is our golden moment. The Government of the United States calls for every able bodied colored man to enter the army for the three years’ service, and join in fighting the battles of liberty and the Union. A new era is open to us. For generations, we have suffered under the horrors of slavery, outrage, and wrong; our manhood has been denied, our citizenship blotted out, our souls seared, our spirits crushed, and the hopes of the future of our race involved in doubt and darkness. But how the whole aspect of our relations to the white race is changed! Now, therefore, is our most precious moment. Let us rush to arms! Fail now, and our race is doomed on this soil of our birth. We must now awake, arise, or be forever fallen. If we value liberty; if we wish to be free in this land; if we love our country; if we love our families, our children, our homes we must strike now while the country calls; we must rise up in the dignity of our manhood, and show by our own right arms that we are worthy to be freemen. Our enemies have made the country believe that we are cowards, without soul, without manhood, without the spirit of soldiers. Shall we die with this stigma resting on our graves Shall we leave this inheritance of shame to our children? No! a thousand times no! We will rise! The alternative is upon us; let us rather die freemen than live to be slaves. What is life without liberty? We say that we have manhood now is the time to prove it. A nation or a people that cannot fight may be pitied, but cannot be respected. If we would be regarded as men; if we would forever silence the tongue of cal<illegible> of prejudice and hate, let us rise now, and fly to arms! We have seen the valor and heroism our brothers displayed at Port Hudson and Milliken’s Bend; though they are just from the galling, poisoning grasp of slavery, they have startled the world by the most exalted heroism. If they have proved themselves heroes, cannot we prove ourselves men? Are freemen less brave than slaves? More than a million white men have left comfortable homes, and joined the armies of the Union to save their country; cannot we leave ours, and swell the hosts of the Union, to save our liberties, vindicate our manhood, and deserve well of our country?
“Men of color! All races of men the Englishman, the Irishman, the Frenchman, the German, the American have been called to assert their claim to freedom and a manly character by an appeal to the sword. The day that has seen an enslaved race in arms has, in all history, seen their last trial. We can now see that our last opportunity has come! If we are not lower in the scale of humanity than Englishmen, Irishmen, white Americans, and other races, we can show it now.
“Men of color! brothers and fathers! we appeal to you! by all your concern for yourselves and your liberties; by all your regard for God and humanity; by all your desire for citizenship and equality before the law; by all your love for the country stop at no subterfuge, listen to nothing that shall deter you from rallying for the army. Come forward, and at once enroll your names for the three years’ service. Strike now, and you are henceforth and forever freemen!
“Moreover, we the colored people of Philadelphia, in mass meeting assembled, do most emphatically and unitedly express our firm belief that we not only ought, but may and will raise a full regiment of ten companies of eighty men each, of colored volunteers for the United States service, within the next ten days, in our own city of in Philadelphia.”

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW AND THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESS.
To the Editor of the Liberator:-
More than a month ago, I received a letter from George, W. Julian, member of Congress from Indians, requesting me to make a statement of facts, corrective or preventive of erroneous impressions from what I said in the Liberator, as to the delinquency of the late Republican Congress, in relation to the Fugitive Slave Law. In addition to stating that he “despises” that law as much as I do, and that he voted against its enactment in 1850, friend Julian states that, at an early period in this Republican Congress, he introduced a bill for the repeal of that infamous and atrocious enactment; and that when it had been referred to the Judiciary Committee, he moved a resolution instructing the Committee to report a bill for its repeal. He then refers me to “Congressional Globe, part III, 2d session 37th Congress, page 2623,” where to find the years and nays recorded showing the shameful Republican vote, and dodging from voting, on the occasion. 
I have been waiting, hoping to have some opportunity for access to the Globe; but must not longer delay setting George W. Julian right rather myself right in relation to him before the readers of the Liberator. The record of his proceedings in Congress on the matter had not come under my notice. He is entitled, as an individual member of that body of delinquents, to the benefit of being known as an exception to the rule. Doubtless there are others deserving, in some degree, to be known as exceptions. But they are exceptions.
Suffer me also to say, I read, at the time, as reported in the New York Daily Tribune, George W. Julian’s anti-slavery speech, delivered in the last session of that delinquent Congress of sham republicans—a speech the production of heart and brains, such as if we could have a whole Congress furnished with, there would be some foundation on which to rest hope for the nation. ORSON S. MURRAY.
Foster’s Crossings, Warren 
Co., Ohio, July 10th, 1863.

LINCOLN’S LAST.
The Editor of the Liberator:-
The President has made proclamation for “national thanksgiving, praise and prayer.” Did ever feeble instrumentality, foolishly foisted into place requiring exercise of power, come so far short of comprehending the situation?
To say nothing now about prayers from Washington into one ear of a Deity that has at the same time the other ear open to prayers from Richmond think of “invoking His Holy Spirit to subdue the anger which has produced and so long sustained a needless and cruel rebellion”! From the brainlessness and heartless ness, whence we have this utterance, we have the issues controlling our army and our navy. No wonder our lives are sacrificed by hundreds of thousands, and our treasures by thousands of millions. 
A “needless and cruel rebellion,” “produced” by “anger.” Were ever words so wanting in significance, used where only words most intensely significant could be acceptable or tolerable? The utterance is that of an unthinking, unfeeling, paltering politician, whose hands a base, besotted, perfidious, partizan press has made to grasp reins of power held over the heads of the a great people.
“Anger”! Whose anger! What about? Was that paper pop-gun, pointed by a pestilent politician sitting in the presidential seat, aimed South, or aimed North?
“Needless and cruel rebellion”! As if we had less in hand than a war coming by natural sequence, waged by slavery to subdue all to itself?
Lead us “back to Union and fraternal peace” such as produced this war, devastation and death. Dumb be the mouths palsied be the tongues that make such prayers? Let those leaders who cannot lead us forward into freedom, cease their gibberish about “Union and fraternal peace” here get out of the way abdicate and abscond put themselves on the South side of the Potomac, or on the East side of the Atlantic as their sympathies and affinities may attract and carry them where they may enjoy “Union and fraternal peace” with tyrants and despots, and not hinder others from turning this unequalled epoch to some account for human progress. ORSON S. MURRAY.
<c02>
MR. WHITING ON COLORED TROOPS.
In response to an invitation to address the convention of colored citizen at Poughkeepsie, William Whiting, Esq., Solicitor to the War Department, has written a letter, important from the information it contains and the official assurance which it conveys. The following is the letter:—
WAR DEPARTMENT:-
WASHINGTON CITY, D. C., July 10, 1863.
DEAR SIR -Your letter, under date of the 8th of July, has been received, in which you have done me the honor to invite me, on behalf of the Fremont Legion, to address the grand man convention of colored citizens, to be held at Poughkeepsie, on the 15th and 16th inst; and in which you desire me to answer certain inquiries in relation to troop of African descent. Other engagements render it impossible for me to be present on that occasion, but I avail myself of this opportunity of expressing my respect and; sympathy for those who now, for the first time within the present century, have determined to vindicate their right to be treated as patriots by sharing in the toils, dangers and sacrifices of that great nation, of which they constitute so important a part.
Courage, endurance, and disinterested heroism are qualities of all brave men, whatever may be their lineage. No name yet stand upon the roll of honor more brilliant or illustrious than those of Hannibal and Toussaint L’Ouverture. Give to those Americans who claim as their father-land the continent that gave birth to the conqueror of Rome, the arms and discipline of the well-trained soldier, and they will give back to the cause of the country all the elements of military power. Such is the teaching of history; such is the testimony of experience.
What has the Africo-American to fight for? He fights for that land which, now about to be freed from the curse of slavery, will be to him “his country.” In rallying round the flag of the Union, he adds strength and support to the noble armies of the West and of the East, who, on the fields of Vicksburg and Gettysburg, have added fresh laurels to their imperishable fame.
Not alone for his country’s honor, not for empire, not for conquest, not alone for the crushing of rebellion, is the African’s blade unsheathed. He fights for the honor and manhood of his race, for justice, humanity, and freedom. When love of country and of fame, when thirst for justice and a sense of wrongs yet unavenged, shall nerve the arm and fire the blood already kindled by the flames of freedom, how is it possible that the soldier can be otherwise than brave and terrible in battle, when slavery and death are behind him, and life and liberty lie only in the path of victory? Let history answer this question. Read your answer in the bloody battles of the Revolution, where negro soldiers bore a part so noble that Gen. Washington publicly, and at the head of his army, acknowledged their gallantry. Remember the honor paid by Gen. Jackson to the heroic regiment of colored men who aided in the defence of New Orleans. Let the battles on the Atlantic coast and the storming of forts on the Mississippi answer. Their bravery recalls the memory of the world-renowned battle of Marathon, in which one-tenth of those who fought and won imperishable honor were slaves “unchained from the doorposts of their masters.”
Will the colored men respond to the invitation of the government?
They are now springing up, like dragon’s teeth, from the soil into which they have been crushed. Masters of the ground they tread upon, they are sweeping forward in steady, solid legions. Forty thousand strong are already in the service. They are destined to wield the sword of just retribution; to teach their former masters, on many a bloody battle field, by many a rout and swift pursuit, which of them is “the superior race.”
The military organization of colored troops, removing all danger of insurrectionary movements, will regulate, control and utilize the physical force of the only “genuine Union men “in the Gulf States. The greatest war power of treason will become the most efficient defence of the Union; and while it will smother rebellion, it will destroy the curse that caused it.
On the 27th of May, the War Department issued a general order (No. 143) establishing a bureau in the Adjutant General’s office for the organization of colored regiments, whereby the system of employing them as part of the forces of the United States has become the fixed and permanent policy of the Government. That policy, sanctioned by Congress, carried into practical effect by the Government, has been approved by the general consent of wise and patriotic men. The country cannot afford to lose the aid of its best and chief supporters in the South.
The employment of colored troops, it is true, was in the beginning experimental. The law of 1862, which first authorized them to enter the service, provided no means of payment.
The second law, which permitted their employment, authorized them to be paid ten dollars per month and one ration per day. This law was, however, made with reference to those who, by force of arms, or by provisions of statutes, had been recently freed from bondage.
The important class of colored soldiers from the Free States were probably not in the contemplation of Congress when framing these acts. But now, while colored men are admitted to be citizens of several of the Northern States and of the United States, and since the Conscription Act makes no distinction between white and colored citizens, but requires them equally to be enrolled and drafted in the forces of the United States, there seems to be no reason why such citizens should not, when volunteering to serve the country, be placed upon the same footing with other soldiers as regards their pay and bounty.
The attention of Congress will be directed to this subject, and from the generous manner in which they have treated the soldiers heretofore, it cannot be doubted that they will honor themselves by doing full justice to those of every color, who rally round the Union flag in time of public danger.
But I do not forget that the colored soldiers are not fighting for pay. They will not let their enemies reproach them with being mean as well as cowardly. They will not lose this, their first chance, to vindicate their right to be called and treated as men. Pay or no pay, they will rally round that banner of freedom which shall soon float over a country that contains no slaves within its borders.
The policy of the Government is fixed and immovable. Congress has passed the irrevocable acts of emancipation. The Supreme Court of the United States have unanimously decided that, since July 13, 1861, we have been engaged in a territorial civil war, and have full belligerent, rights against the inhabitants of the rebellious districts. The President has issued proclamations under his hand and seal. Abraham Lincoln takes no backward step. A man once made free by law cannot to again made a slave. The Government has no power, if it had the will, to do it. Omnipotence alone can re-enslave a freeman. Fear not that the Administration will ever take the back track. The President wishes the aid of all Americans, of whatever descent or color, to defend the country. He wishes every citizen to have the perils of the contest, and to reap the fruits of victory.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant.
WILLIAM WHITING.
EDWARD GILBERT, Esq., New York city.
MR. CONWAY AT LEICESTER. A meeting, convened by the Leicester Emancipation Society to hear a lecture by Mr. Conway, was held in the new hall, Leicester, on Monday evening. The hall was crowded. The Rev. R. Bell, Wesleyan minister, was called to the chair. Mr. Conway enlisted the attention and sympathy of the audience for an hour and a half by the delivery of a very argumentative and convincing lecture upon the American crisis. In the course of his address, he alluded to the published correspondence between himself and Mr. Mason, and said that whatever blundering, might have occurred in this attempt at diplomacy, the whole affair rested on his own shoulder. Neither Mr. Taylor, the member for Leicester, from whose residence the proposition to Mr. Mason was dated, nor Mr. Bright, M. P., who had presided at the London Tavern meeting, nor any of the gentlemen with whom he had acted in this country, had anything whatever to do with the offer he had made in that correspondence. He was anxious that; what might be considered haste and mistake on his part should be limited to himself, as no one else had anything whatever to do with the affair.
At the close of the lecture, an unanimous vote of thanks was accorded to Mr. Conway.
On the motion of Mr. Latchmore, seconded by Mr. Charles worth, a petition to Parliament against any recognition of the Southern Confederacy, on the part of this country, was unanimously adopted, to be signed by the Chairman on behalf of the meeting.
A hearty vote of thanks to the Chairman closed the meeting. London Morning Star, June 26.
BLACK SOLDIERS MURDERED.
The correspondent of the N. Y. Times, speaking of the guerrillas of Louisiana, says: “A teamster who was among those that were captured with some of our wagons on the Jackson Road, on the night of the 20th, and afterwards made his escape, declares that the rebels put to death every teamster and every other black man found in United States uniform. Can it be the policy of the Government to allow these horrors to continue, against all laws of civilized warfare? Or are we, in common justice, to see a traitor’s life sacrificed for that of each black soldier of the United States needlessly and mercilessly put to death?”
The officers commanding the U. S. steamer Howqua, in speaking of a recent visit to Halifax, N. S., says some of his men were beaten in the streets, and that he was personally “subjected to the most trying insults.”
<c03>
ASSAULT UPON FORT WAGNER.
Desperate valor and terrible lots of the Massachusetts
Colored Fifty-Fourth Regiment Death of Col. Shaw and Col. Putnam.
Another attack upon Fort Wagner has failed. Beauregard’s star is again in the ascendant. His dispatch says that the federal loss in the attempt to storm the fort on the 18th was, including prisoners, about 2,000, while his own loss was but 150, including, however, many valuable officers. The battle was opened by a furious bombardment of eleven hours from our batteries and monitors. The assault was made at night. The storming party was led by the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts (colored), under Col. Shaw, who, arriving within two hundred yards of the works, gave a fierce shout and rushed up the glacis, followed by other regiments of Gen. Strong’s brigade. The enemy awaited the onset in perfect silence, until our men were swarming over the glacis, when they opened upon them furiously with grape, canister, and a continuous fusillade of small arms. The gallant negroes plunged on, regardless of the fire, until many of them had crossed the ditch, containing four feet of water, and had gained the parapet. They were, however, overpowered, and forced to retire with a loss of their brave Colonel, and nearly half their men. The Sixth Connecticut and Ninth Maine, which were next in line, also suffered terribly, and were forced to retire. The Third New Hampshire, led by Gens. Strong and Jackson, now rushed forward, and gained the ditch, but the second brigade failed to be in readiness as a support, and Gen. Strong gave the order to fall back, soon after which he received a severe wound. The other brigades now came up, and rushing impetuously upon the works, scaled the parapet and descended into the fort. Here a hand to hand conflict ensued, but the enemy rallying in overpowering numbers at length drove our gallant heroes from the position they had so dearly won. The Forty-eighth New York suffered most severely, being accidentally fired upon by one of our own regiments.
[Correspondence of the N. Y. Evening Post.]
PORT ROYAL, July 24, 1863.
Fresh honors crown the colored troops. So fully had their character for bravery and reliance been established, that in the recent assault upon Fort Wagner the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts were allowed to lead our veteran troops, nor did they (to their honor be it said) refuse either the lead or their support.
On forming them into line, General Strong who had by his soldierly and kind bearing toward them secured their confidence, raising his stentorian voice, cried out, “Is there a man here who thinks himself unable to sleep in that fort to-night!” The earth rang with the thunder of their “No!” Turning to the color-bearer, he said: “Is there any man to take his place, if this brave color-bearer should fall?” With lifting of hands, and leaping, and almost yelling, all through the enthusiastic ranks, came the response, “Yes! Yes!”
GENERAL STRONG’S TESTIMONY.
From General Strong himself, as he lay in the hospital four days afterward, suffering from his ghastly round, I learned that these men had “had no sleep for three nights, no food since morning, and had marched several miles.” Under cover of darkness they stormed the fort, facing a stream of fire, faltering not till the ranks were broken by shot and shell, and in all these severe tests, which would have tried even veteran troops, “they fully met my expectations,” said the General, “for many of them were killed, wounded or captured on the walls of the fort. No man broke till fired upon.”
THE SUPPORT OF THE COLORED REGIMENT.
The Sixth Connecticut, who had honored themselves at Jacksonville co-operating with colored troops, supported the Fifty-fourth in the assault. Several of the officers lying in the hospital confirm the testimony of General Strong. The regiment went in seven hundred strong, and brought off only three hundred and sixty sound men. Of seventeen officers, only three came out unhurt. The number of killed I have not learned. About two hundred are now lying in our hospitals. Some, who had prophesied that the colored man would not stand fire, but had finally yielded in his favor, still contended that ghastly wounds and sufferings, with slaughter and death of comrades, would quash all their love of freedom and soldiering, and silence the boasts of their friends.
WOUNDED COLORED SOLDIERS IN HOSPITAL.
On the second and fourth days after the fight, I passed through nearly all the wards of the hospital. On the second day a very large proportion of their wounds had not been dressed, and of course they were very painful. Some lay with shattered legs or arms, or both; others with limbs amputated. Rebel bullets, grape, shells and bayonets have made sad havoc. Standing amidst a large number, I said, “Well, boys, this was not a part of the programme, was it?” “Oh, yes, indeed, we expected to take all that comes,” said some. Others said, “Thank God, we went in to live or die.”
“If out of it and home, how many would enlist again?” With brightened faces, and some raising of even wounded arms or hands, all said, “Oh yes, yes.” Some sang out, “Oh, never give it up, till the last rebel be dead,” or “the last brother breaks his chains,” or, “if all our people get their freedom, we can afford to die.”
Frank Myers, from Ohio, whose arm was badly shattered by a shell, said, “Oh, I thank God so much for the privilege! I went in to live or die as he please.” He stood right under the uplifted sword of their brave Colonel Shaw, on the very top of the -parapet, as he cried, “Rush on, rush on, boys!” and then suddenly fell, quickly followed by Myers himself.
No man can pass among these sufferers, so patient, so cheerful, hear them express their desire for a speedy recovery, first and only that they may (the almost universal expression) “try it over again;” also, their firm conviction that they are soldiers for Jesus, to help on his war of freedom for all the oppressed, and not be inspired with deepest abhorrence of slavery and unquenchable desire for the freedom of their race. I have seen much to admire in them as servants, laborers in the field; as soldiers, in camp, on the battle-field; but never so much in all these relations that is so truly manly, heroic and sublime as exhibited in the furnace fires of war.
NEGRO SYMPATHY.
The sympathy and kind attentions of the colored people are unmeasured. Yesterday, Peter from a plantation seven miles distant, calling on General Saxton, said: “General, I bro’t load of corn from ou’ people for de sogers in de hospital. Some gives two ears, some four and some more, as dey be able. May de poor wounded sogers have it?” “Yes, yes; I thank them for it,” said the General. Men, women and children by the hundred have turned ministering angels to their suffering benefactors, as the baskets of corn, figs, melons, pies; cakes, kettles of coffee, soup, and numberless other tokens of sympathy clearly evince.
BEAUFORT, S. C., July 23,1863.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
In the storming of Fort Wagner on the night of Saturday, July 18, 1863, the 54th Massachusetts led the assault. The fight was of a “hand to hand” “encounter at the same time that the guns from Fort Sumter and Cummings Point were pouring shot and shell at “crossfire” “at a terrible rate upon our brave troops.
According to all accounts, it was one of the most destructive close encounters of the kind. Officers and men were seen fighting hand to hand with the enemy, some giving, others repelling bayonet thrusts. Men dropped from the ramparts of the fort to the ditch as if struck by lightning.
Scarcely would the men mount the parapet when they would be received with grape and canister, or treated to a hand grenade. Many of the regiments suffered severely, especially as they were ordered to withdraw from the attack. As near as can be ascertained, the loss of the 54th in killed, wounded and missing, is between 500 and 600. Most of the company commanders being either killed, wounded or missing, it is impossible for me to get a list of the names of the men. Of the officers, twenty-one were engaged; only six escaped uninjured. The following is the list:-
1. Col. Robert G. Shaw, supposed to be killed.
2. Major. Edward N. Hallowell is severely, but not dangerously wounded, in the groin.
3. Adjutant Garth W. James, wounded in the shoulder, side, and ankle; is doing well and gaining
4. Capt. John W. M. Appleton, Co A, wounded in the breast and wrist, not seriously.
5. First Lieut. Wm. H. Homans, Co A, wounded in the left breast.
6. Capt Samuel Willard, Co B, flesh wounds in leg.
7. Capt Edward L. Jones, Co D. wounded in shoulder and arm, severely.
8. First Lieut. Richard H. L. Jewett, Co D. wounded slightly in forehead, has returned to duty.
9. First Lieut. Charles E. Tucker, Co F, wounded slightly in the cheek has returned to duty.
10. Capt. Orin E. Smith, Co G, wounded, severely in the side.
11. Second Lieut James A. Pratt, Co G, is wounded and missing.
12. Capt. Cabot J. Russell, Co H, is missing.
13. Capt George Pope, Co I, wounded in the shoulder badly.
14. Capt. William H. Simpkins, Co K, is missing
A flag of truce was sent to the rebels for our wounded and dead, but they would not receive it, saying they had plenty of surgeons and medicines for the wounded, and could bury our dead without any help. Suffice it to say that men could not have been in a worse position exposed to three different fires. This time Massachusetts and her colored troops have shown their bravery. Other regiments declare their surprise
<c04>
and state that they do not wish better nor braver soldiers. It was their first fight, and they proved themselves worthy of the old Bay State. 
I write this to relieve the anxiety of the many friends of the regiment. The wounded are here (Beaufort, S. C.) in excellent hospitals. I have visited nearly all of them, and find them doing well, being in the hands of kind and skillful surgeons.
I hope to be able to forward a full statement ere long.
Yours, respectfully,
H. W. LITTLEFIELD,
Lieut. Commanding Camp 54th Reg’t Mass., Vols.
THE LATE COL. ROBERT G. SHAW. The public has a right to honor every faithful soldier who falls in the service of his country, in this war for the country’s life and integrity as a free republic. Private grief must yield this right, that it may be known by what costly sacrifices, priceless principles’ are defended and maintained. Would a record could be made and a fitting eulogy given to all who bravely die! This cannot be; but the noble catalogue of the well known heroes is already large, and must, alas! grow, larger still.
We have to refer to-day to one whose claims to high respect are somewhat peculiar. In the Spring of 1861, we saw in camp, at Brook Farm, a Lieutenant devoted quietly and modestly to learning and performing his novel military duties, in appearance hardly more than a boy.
On Thursday, May 28th, that young Lieutenant, with the manly bearing almost of a veteran, rode down State street, amid greeting cheers, as Colonel of the 54th, the First Colored Regiment of Massachusetts; and now the intelligence reaches us that he met death on the chosen battle field.
It was principle that sent him so promptly to Brook Farm, and made him true to his martial vocation as an officer of the 2d Mass.; and it was principle that gave his name, ability and character to the inauguration in New England of a new force for the national service.
On his own part, and on the part of those by whom he was so dearly loved as an only son and only brother, it was the conviction that duty called him from a refined and cultivated home, from the peaceful engagements of business, from all that heart could desire to make life’s morning joyous, and full of rich, rare promise. The summons of honor, patriotism and humanity was heeded with unquestioning alacrity, and the behests of honor, patriotism and humanity were unflinchingly obeyed to the last.
It would be a sad pleasure at any other time to speak, in the words of friendly eulogy, of the pure character, the fine disposition, the courteous and gentlemanly manners, of the many sweet and clustering graces that adorned his youth, and blossomed into the fruit of strong virtues in the brief manhood of Col. Shaw.
But now, above all these, calling for special, if not exclusive regard, is his service to the country the self sacrifice that consecrated all he was to her; that waived aside, for the time, all he hoped to be or enjoy, or rather put it all in peril, that he might be faithful found as a soldier fighting for the holiest of human rights.
How much he risked, how much he gave up, what precious hopes have been blasted, what tender ties have been sundered, what affections, (stronger, God be thanked, than death, and able to triumph over even the grave,) have been agonized by his quick departure from among the living, words cannot tell.
The story of bereavement is for the tears fast and long flowing, but not bitter for the memories sad but never gloomy of that love-girt and love-united circle, into which the entrance of sympathizing friendship now would be that of an intrusive stranger.
It is allowed to us only to say here, that when record is made up of those who nobly fought and died to save our free nationality, shining high and bright upon it will be the name of Col. Robert G. Shaw, as one from first to last as courageously true to the principles he represented as he was brave in meeting the foes that lifted their rebellious hands to destroy them. Boston Transcript.
HORRIBLE AND BARBAROUS. The New York World, in alluding to the arrest of some parties for hanging a negro during the late riot, says the victim was first encountered by the mob on Seventh avenue, and ran for his life, but was overtaken near the corner of Twenty-eighth street. Here he was knocked down, and cut with knives in the most delicate parts of the body in a horrible manner. During this time the mob were beating, kicking, and even biting him, in their fury. They ground the heels of their boots into his eyes and mouth, and ended the torture by cutting his throat from ear to ear. They then shouted for a rope, which was thrown them by an unknown man in the crowd. With this rope the poor victim was suspended to the nearest lamp-post, which was at the corner of 28th street. Here the body was allowed to hang for some hours, an awful spectacle of the brutality of mob few. Mr. President Acton, upon learning the facts and that the body was still hanging where it was left by the mob, ordered out a force to take it down. The few of the rioters who had been left to guard it, retired as the police came up, and the body was removed.
MURDERED NEGRO IDENTIFIED.
The colored man who was murdered and then hung to a lamp-post at the corner of Seventh avenue and Twenty-eighth street by the mob has been recognized as Abraham Franklin, a young man nearly 23 years of age, who lived one block below where he was murdered. Rounds man Gunner and Roberts of the Twenty-ninth Precinct yesterday arrested Patrick Butler, charged with aiding and assisting in the fiendish outrage on Franklin before the hanging. This young wretch not being content with helping to beat the negro to death, actually, it is said, cut bits of flesh from the body and trampled them under his feet, and also exhibited them to the ruffians about him. The officers who have made the arrests in connection with this murder thus far are actively engaged in searching for other parties known to have been accessories to it before the fact.
ATTEMPT TO DROWN A NEGRO.
Joseph Marshall, a boatman, was arrested yesterday by Officer Cornell of the Harbor Police, charged with a felonious assault and battery on Joseph Jackson, a colored man, residing on the corner of Broadway and Houston street. On the 15th inst. Jackson was attacked by a gang of rioters, and to escape them ran down to Pier No. 4, North River, where he had some business. The mob pursued him, crying, “Here’s a d-d nigger,” and the prisoner, as s alleged, made a rush for him, and, seizing the frightened negro, beat him in the most terrible manner about the head and body with a large stone. Jackson was then thrown into the river for dead, but the plunge in the water revived him so that he was enabled to crawl under the pier, where he remained for nearly twenty-four hours before daring to venture from his hiding-place. The rioters robbed their victim of his watch and chain, and $36 in money. The prisoner, who is reported to be a newly imported rowdy from New Orleans, was taken before Justice Quackenbush, and locked up. He was positively identified by Jackson as one of the men who beat him.
FEARFUL OF BEING KNOWN.
For the last few days, General Superintendent Kennedy and Inspector Carpenter have received numerous anonymous communications, to the effect that the writer, knew who had mobbed and hung negroes, and committed other acts of violence against both persons and property, but they feared violence at the hands of the rioters should they betray them. Any person possessing such information, by making the necessary affidavits before Inspector Carpenter, will be protected from harm, and assurances given that their names will not be divulged, except by their consent.
THE MERCHANTS’ RELIEF COMMITTEE. 
Merchants’ Relief Committee for Suffering Colored People, Depot, No. 850 Fourth street, New York, July 24, 1863.)
At a meeting of the Committee of the Merchants, for the relief of suffering colored people, held this morning, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, It has come to our knowledge that many parties heretofore employing colored men and women are now declining their further employment, from fear of molestation by the mob: therefore,
Resolved, That merchants, warehousemen, transport companies, and others are respectfully urged to employ colored men as heretofore, and are requested to rely upon the public authorities for Protection.
Resolved, further, That all such cases be reported to the Board.
Resolved, That responsible persons residing out of town, knowing of colored refugees from this city in their neighborhood, be requested to report them to the Committee at their rooms, No. 350 Fourth street, and aid the committee in returning such refugees to their accustomed labor as soon as possible.
JONATHAN STURGIS, GEO. C. COLLINS,
A. R. WETMORE, J. D. McKENZIE,
J. S. SHULTZ, Jos. B. COLLINS,
Executive Committee.
A DEMOCRAT’S OPINION. We have not always agreed with the venerable Daniel S. Dickinson, but we agree with him exactly in his opinion of Governor Seymour. He said, at Genesee, (N. Y.,) a few days ago:-
“He should do himself and the cause injustice if he did not say that be felt his State to be disgraced when high officers of the State, from the Chief Executive to a high judicial functionary, talk to a mob in mild and deprecatory language, instead of putting them down with a strong hand.”
<c05>
THREE FACTS. The riot turned up three curious facts, which stand out so sharply that comment would dull their edge:-
1. The detective policemen who arrested John U. Andrews, “of Virginia,” the most conspicuous ringleader in the assaults against the negroes, found him in bed at midnight by-the side of a negro woman with whom he cohabited.
2. These detectives say that when he was nabbed, he protested against his arrest as “unconstitutional.”
3. They say also he confessed that his speech to the mob was the identical speech which he made at Fernando Wood’s late peace-meeting in this city.-N. Y. Independent.
It seems to us high time that the Government should now cease its customary insults to negroes. In Philadelphia, where the draft is peaceably going on, an official order proclaims that a black man cannot be accepted as a substitute for a white. Would the Government accept a white man in place of a black? If the Government takes incessant pains to draw a line of distinction between whites and blacks, is it strange that rioters in New York should draw the same line more plainly in blood? The Government offers no insults to Irishmen, even though they turn out to be rioters; why, then, should it put an odious mark upon the peaceable blacks? Ibid.
DEATH OF MRS. SENATOR POMEROY. We were grieved to learn shortly before going to press, of the sudden decease of that excellent woman, the wife of Hon. Samuel C. Pomeroy, of Kansas. She died suddenly, on board the steamer Armenia, just before reaching Albany, as she was on the way to Geneva, to recruit her health and strength, which had been exhausted in benevolent labors for the welfare of the soldiers, and for the relief of the hunted negroes at Washington. Her remains will be buried among her kindred, at Otisco, New York. Our sympathies are with the stricken and patriotic Senator, whose extraordinary experiences in public life, from the day of the first free settlement in Kansas, have now received so unexpected a diversity. To have had the fellowship and support of such a wife is a boon from heaven, for which a man cannot be sufficiently thankful. And the remembrance of her worth and her labors will be a rich solace under the affliction which comes from her loss. Many friends, both East and West, and at the capital of the country, will add their sorrow at her departure, and their admiration for her works. Her memory will be hallowed by the gratitude of sick and wounded soldiers of the Union who have experienced her kindness in their hospitals. And the asylum for colored orphans at Washington city will remain for generations to come her fitting and honorable monument-New York Independent.
In the late battle of Gettysburg, and in the cavalry fights subsequent to it, seventeen of the rebel general officers were placed hors du combat, as follows; Generals Barksdale, Garnett, Armstead and Pettigrew were killed; Generals Archer and Robinson were captured; Generals Kemper and Trimble were wounded and captured; Generals Hood, Pender, Heth, Anderson, Semmes, Jenkins, Scales, Hampton and Jones were all wounded. Of the five cavalry brigadiers whom Pleasanton first fought at Beverly Ford, but one remains in the field Fitzhugh Lee, nephew of the General. Robinson and W. F. H. Lee are in our hands, and Jones and Hampton are wounded.
General Ewell, when he first entered Gettysburg with the portion of Lee’s army under his command, addressed them in the hearing of two highly respectable citizens of that place as follows, or to this effect:
“Boys, we have a small job on hand about a half a day’s work, to whip that drunken Hooker’s army. Then, hurrah, boys! we will take Harrisburg, Lancaster, Baltimore and Washington, Philadelphia will be our headquarters, and the people there must pay the expenses of this war, which will make the Quakers howl. If they will not, we will set fire to the four corners of their city, and burn it to ashes.”
This is no invention. It is given on the word of two gentlemen of the highest standing in Gettysburg.
COLORED MEN NOT ALLOWED TO SERVE AS SUBSTITUTES FOR WHITES. According to the official notice of Provost Marshal General Frye, men of African descent can only be accepted as substitutes for each other, under the Enrolment Act, as existing laws make a distinction in the matter of pay and bounty between colored and other soldiers in the service of the United States.
MOB SPIRIT IN MAINE. The Lewiston Journal understands that a mob spirit in opposition to the draft has exhibited itself in various parts of Franklin county, Maine. In Kingfield and Freeman, mobs collected and destroyed the rolls of the enrolling officers, and threatened vengeance on parties concerned in executing the law. The mob seemed to have the idea that if they are not notified, their liability ceases.
SYMPATHY WITH VALLANDIGHAM. The Lounger, in Harper’s Weekly, has a scorching comment on the speeches of Seymour and other politicians in New York on the Fourth of July. “These orators,” he says, “forget the soldiers who are dying for the rights of all the people, in their eagerness to howl over the wrongs of a man summarily arrested for helping the murderers of those soldiers.”
NEWBERN, N. C., June 20. The resistance to the draft in New York and elsewhere has aroused the indignation of the veteran troops in this Department to an extent which knows no bounds, and were it possible for them to be at the scenes of shame and anarchy, they would slaughter indiscriminately all who were engaged in this attempt to overthrow the Government.
MAJOR GENERALS WITHOUT COMMANDS. There are now thirteen Major Generals without commands, viz.: McClellan, Fremont, Butler, Hooker, Hunter, Buell, McDowell, Franklin, McClernand, Curtis, Cad-wallader, Morell, Milroy.
FRANKFORT, Ky., July 26. Hon. John J. Crittenden died at half-past 2 o’clock this morning, without pain or a struggle, and in the full possession of his faculties. His disease was general debility. His age was 77 years.
COLORED SOLDIERS AND MALARIA. Surgeon General Hammond, in a recent communication to the Secretary of War, makes an interesting statement respecting the comparative suffering of the white and black soldiers from malarious diseases in the Department of the Gulf. The proportion of white soldiers affected with such diseases is 10.8 per cent., while the colored soldiers so affected show the proportion of 0.8 per cent. In round numbers, therefore, eleven white soldiers suffer from this class of disease to one negro. The Surgeon General quotes from the experience of the British army, showing substantially the same result.
THE FEELING IN THE ARMY. Letters from the army show that the greatest indignation exists among our brave veterans in view of the Copperhead riots. These men, who have faced the rebels of the South, understand perfectly well that the demonstrations in New York are designed to help the common enemy, and, if possible, to enable him to maintain yet a while longer the contest he has been almost driven to abandon.
Among the rebel prisoners who were marched through Gettysburg, there were observed seven negroes in uniform and fully accoutred as soldiers.
At Chester Gap, our cavalry captured 1,100 of the cattle stolen by the enemy, and several hundred sheep. A large number of horses have also been recovered.
NEW YORK, 27th. The colored church in Williams-burg was burned yesterday morning by incendiaries.
CINCINNATI, July 25. Fourteen hundred more of Morgan’s men arrived last night, and will be forwarded to Indianapolis to-day. Twenty-four hundred have arrived altogether.
The number of killed in the New York riot has been estimated at from 300 to 500, and the impression seems to have got abroad that the friends of many of the dead rioters, for the purpose of avoiding detection, have procured, by means of a fee, burial certificates from a certain class of medical practitioners, setting forth that the deceased came to his death from natural causes.
The greatest capture of men mentioned in modern history was: made by Bonaparte at Austerlitz, where he took 20,000 men. Gen. Grant, it is now reported, took nearly 31,000 at Vicksburg. Napoleon’s spoil at Austerlitz was 150 pieces of artillery; Gen. Grant’s at Vicksburg is stated to be 238 embracing nine siege gun and 209 pieces of artillery.
William Whiting, the Solicitor of the War Department, has overruled the decision of Provost Marshal Fry, so that a conscript can, after being examined, furnish his substitute or pay his $300. Mr. Whiting has got some sense in his head, which is more than can be said of some of the Provost Marshals.
Judge Cadwallader of Philadelphia, of the United States District Court in that city, has decided that any one who resists the draft participates in the rebellion.
The new Connecticut militia bill declares that at white able-bodied citizens over twenty and under thirty-five years of age, shall constitute the militia. This will embrace about 30,000 men. Negroes and students of Yale College, but of no other colleges, are exempted.
We see it stated that both the sons of the Hon. Edward Everett one of whom just graduated at Cambridge, England have been drafted in this city. Both have made up their minds to serve in person, instead of procuring a substitute or paying the $300.
<c06>
CHARLESTON MAY BE CAPTURED.
We are among those who cherish the confident hope that the enemy will be miserably unsuccessful in executing the plans he is at present working to vigorously and resolutely to carry out. We expect him to be punished severely if he persists in the undertaking. But we may be disappointed. Our hope may prove a delusion. The result the timid and despondent predict may transpire. The capture of our city may, perchance, delight his base and corrupt heart. In case that frightful calamity fall upon us, they who remain here must suffer grievous evils. The woes they will have poured out upon them will be far heavier than those under which the citizens of New Orleans and Nashville and Memphis have groaned. For the vile foe hates the people of this State with a ten-fold more bitter hatred than he entertains for the inhabitants of any other sections, and he will not spare us when he comes as conqueror.
On the supposition of the foe’s success, it is our duty to avoid incurring his fiendish malignity. All who can be of no service in the work of defence should betake themselves to places of shelter. And it were well not to defer removal to a late day. We may be compelled to remain, or, if we make good our escape, circumstances may oblige us to leave all our personal effects behind.
We should also consider that our city is going to make a fierce and determined resistance. If the enemy gets it, he will have to take it. No flag of trace boat will meet him midway between the wharves and Fort Sumter, in order to effect a surrender. We are going to fight until we are driven from street to street, and continue the fight while we are retreating.
So determined a resistance involves immense injury to our fair city at the hands of the enemy. It will be little better than a heap of ruins, even though, the work of destruction is not insured by military order.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., July 28. The steamer Imperial, the first boat from New Orleans, arrived this morning. A large crowd of merchants and other citizens greeted her arrival, and a salute was fired in honor of the opening of the Mississippi river.
The steamer Albert Pierce sailed this evening for New Orleans with a large load of private freight and a long passenger list. The Continental left yesterday for the same port, heavily laden with Government stores.
CAPTURE OF MORGAN. The career of the renowned guerrilla John H. Morgan, who so daringly entered Ohio at the head of five thousand cavalry, has ended in his capture and the surrender of his entire force as prisoners of war. Among them are Col. Clarke, Basil Duke, Dick Morgan, Col. Smith, and other notorious guerrillas. Morgan himself, with the last 300, was captured by Col. Shackelford near New Lisbon, Ohio, on Sunday last.

A PICTURE FOR THE TIMES.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, a well-executed photograph of a remarkable drawing by Mr. CABLTON, one of our resident artists, called “Watch-Meeting, Dec. 31, 1862 Waiting for the Hour“ representing a scene “way down South in Dixie,” on last New Year’s Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln’s proclamation of the. 22d of September, shall make them” henceforth and for ever free.” Large size, suitable for framing, $2.00. Second size, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.
THE “PEECULIAR INSTITUTION” ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running crosswise and lengthwise the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. “This card photograph,” says the New York Independent, “should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye.” Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
PROF. NOYES WHEELER has located himself in New York City, and opened Rooms, No. 513 Sixth Avenue, where he intends to practice Medicine, in connection with Phrenology and Physiology, make phrenological examinations, and heal the sick.

THE GREAT BATTLES OF GETTYSBURG
ALSO,
“WHAT I SAW IN TENNESSEE,”
BT EDMUND KIRKE.
THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE of Tuesday, July 7, contains forty eight columns of matter of unusual interest and variety, enough to make two good-sized volumes. Among these articles is the first of a series of Letters written expressly for THE TRIBUNE, by “EDMUND KIRKE,” author of “Among the Pines,” entitled, “What I saw in Tennessee.” Mr. “Kirke” has recently made a tour in the Southwest, and proposes to give in these letters an inside view of the Rebellion, for which his familiarity with Southern people and their habits, and his remarkable facility in describing them, eminently fit him. This first letter sets forth the character and portrays the enormities of the Rebellion with a vividness and power not hitherto reached by any other writer. A large portion of the sheet will be given up to a full account of the Battles of Gettysburg the most intelligent, complete, and best-written narrative of the terrible fighting of last week that has been published, and written by our own correspondents, who were eye-witnesses to what they relate. The account will be brought down to the latest moment. It will contain also a review of the forthcoming work of Mrs. Frances Butler Life as she saw it on a Southern Plantation embracing some long extracts from the book.
TERMS OF THE TRIBUNE.
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, 3 cents.
Mail Subscribers, one year (311 issues) $8.
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One copy, one-year (104 issues)-$3.
Two Copies, one year,-$5.
Five Copies, one year,-$12.
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One Copy, one year, (52 issues) $2.
Three Copies, one year, .$5.
Five Copies, one year, $8.
Ten Copies, one year, $15.
Any larger number, addressed to names of subscribers, $1.50 each. An extra copy will be sent to every club of ten.
Twenty Copies, to one address, one year, $25, and any larger number at same price. An extra copy will be sent to clubs of twenty. Any person who will send as a club of thirty or over shall receive The Semi-Weekly Tribune gratis.
Address THE TRIBUNE,
Tribune Buildings, New York.

English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin, Wednesday, Sept. 2, 1863. 
For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
July 31. West Newton, Mass.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that the has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where the will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which, does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are and used in every city in the country. They are an also packed; for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they <illegible> get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAIX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry

A HYMN OF THE BATTLE.
BY REV. T. L. HARRIS.
Can ye lengthen the hours of the dying Night?
Or chain the wings of the Morning Light?
Can ye seal the springs of the Ocean Deep?
Or bind the Thunders in silent sleep?
The sun that rises, the Seas that flow,
The Thunders of Heaven, all answer, "No!"
Can ye drive young Spring from the blossomed earth?
The Earthquake still in its awful birth?
Will the hand on Time’s dial backward flee?
Or the pulse of the Universe pause for thee?
The shaken Mountains, the Flowers that blow,
The pulse of the Universe, answer, "No!"
Can ye burn a Truth in the Marty’s fire?
Or chain a Thought in the dungeon dire?
Or stay the Soul, when it soars away
In glorious life from the mouldering clay?
The Truth that liveth, the Thoughts that go,
The Spirit ascending, all answer, "No!"
O, Priest! O, Despot! YOUR doom THEY speak;
For God is mighty as ye are weak;
Your Night and your Winter from earth must roll;
Your chains must melt from the limb and soul;
Ye have wrought us wrong, ye have wrought us wo—
Shall ye triumph longer? We answer, "No!"
Ye laugh in scorn from your shrines and towers;
But weak are ye, for the TRUTH is ours!
IN arms, in gold, and in pride ye move,
But we are stronger, OUR STRENGTH is LOVE.
Slay Truth and Love with the curse and blow? 
The beautiful Heavens, they answer,"No!"
The Winter Night of the world is past;
The Day of Humanity dawns at last;
The veil is rent from the Soul’s calm eyes,
And Prophets, and Heroes, and Seers arise;
Their words and deeds like the thunders go;
Can ye stifle their voices? They answer, "No!"
It is God who speaks in their words of might!
It is God who acts in their deeds of right!
Lo! Eden waits, like a radiant bride—
Humanity springeth elate to her side;
Can ye sever the twain who to Oneness flow?
The voice of Divinity answers, "No!"

From the Church of England Magazine.
THE LOVED AND LOST.
"The loved and lost! "why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road? 
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
Looked on us all, and, loving them the most,
Straightway relieved them from life’s weary load.
They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
And God himself their Lord, and Judge, and King.
And this we call a "loss"! O selfish sorrow
 Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith!
Let us look round, some argument to borrow,
Why we in patience should await the morrow,
That surely must succeed this night of death.
Ay, look upon this dreary desert path—
The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
They have escaped from these; and, lo! we mourn!
Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,
Who with his treasures strove the shore to reach,
While with the raging waves he battled on,
Was it not joy, where every joy seemed gone,
To see his loved ones landed on the beach?
A poor wayfarer, leading by the hand
A little child, had halted by the well
To wash from off her feet the clinging sand,
And tell the tired young boy of that bright land
Where, this long journey passed, they longed to dwell;
When, lo! the Lord, who many mansions had, 
Drew near, and looked upon the suffering twain;
Then pitying spake, “Give me the little lad;
In strength renewed, and glorious beauty clad,
I’ll bring him with me when I come again."
Did she make answer selfishly and wrong—
"Nay, but the woes I feel he too must share"?
O rather, bursting into grateful song,
She went her way rejoicing, and made strong
To struggle on, since he was freed from care!
We will do likewise; death hath made no breach 
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust;
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust.
It bids us do the work that they laid down—
Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
And our lost loved ones will be found again.

From the New York Christian Inquirer
MEN OF COLOR.
BY J.C. HAGEN.
Men of color, crushed and fallen,
Rouse ye, rouse ye for the strife!
Hark! your better genius calling,
Strike for freedom! strike for life!
"Now’s the day, and now’s the hour,"
Looked for, hoped for, prayed for long;
Prove your manhood, prove your power; 
Prove that God has made you strong.
Friends in thousands round you gather;
Heaven has sent them in your need;
And the Universal Father
Bids his faithful children speed.
Men of color! friends have risen
Where you looked for foes before;
Seourge and bloodhound, chain and prison,
In the distance loom no more.
In our coming history’s pages
Make yourselves an honored place;
From the blighting scoff of ages, 
Men of color, free your race!
"Now’s the day, and now’s the hour!"
Men of color, mark it well; 
Let none say the envied power
From your grasp unheeded fell.

THE COPPERHEAD.
When the sweet roses, blushing red,
In Eden their first fragrance shed, 
A traitor and a copperhead
Came in disguise,
Diffusing knowledge; and he said,
"Eat and he wise,
And wisdom shall anoint thine eyes."
And when the woman saw the tree,
So pleasant for the eye to see,
She ate forbidden fruit. Thus she
Hath men misled:
Now ‘neath the tree of Liberty
This copperhead 
Appears in blue and white and red.
Under the silent grass he hides,
Among the weeds and flowers he glides,
Down by the brooks he most abides-
A treacherous thing;
The stars and stripes that deek his sides
Conceal a sting:
Venom and death are in his spring.
Satan seceded, and he fell,
In chains and darkness doom’d to dwell
With other traitors who rebel,
In act and word,
Because he’d rather reign in hell
Than <illegible> Lord, 
Who guards us with his flaming sword.
<c02>
The Liberator.
MR. HEYWOOD’S ADDRESS.
WORCESTER, July 20th, 1863.
MR. GARRISON,—I thank you for publishing that address of Mr. Heywood, in last week’s Liberator, which, although my views differ from his in some points, gave me great pleasure, because I am always glad to find a young man into whom the martial spirit has not been diffused by the present sanguinary conflict. As he is a recent convert to the doctrine of Non-Resistance, doubtless he feels impelled to speak these fresh impulses of his soul more than some who have borne a life-long testimony to its truth and efficacy.
Agreeing with yon that the present is not the time for the effectual advancement of this cause by preaching or otherwise,—although I believe our friend thinks differently,—it is the time for the maintenance of our principles, since, if they cannot stand the test in time of war, they are worth little. To me it is peculiarly pleasant now to listen to the silver tones of peace, when the boom of cannon-shot grates so harshly on my ear. But, as I replied to one who recently remarked that I went for peace, "Yes," said I, "but not such a peace as is possible for this nation at present." The North and the South are being shaken together, the wicked with the good; and not until the law of retribution has been fully vindicated will the North be permitted to triumph. With this instinctive abhorrence of all war, no rapture of exultation ever thrills me at the news of victory. I turn soul-sick from the harrowing details of the ghastly battle-field; and only as I recognize therein the judgments of God, before which we must submissively bow, can I reconcile it with the laws of His eternal Providence.
On the other hand, he must be bigoted and narrow-minded who cannot view this question from another stand-point, and appreciate the courage and devotion with which men take their lives in their hand to battle in the highest form they can see for their country and the right. True, judging them by their antecedents, their motives may seem extremely low and selfish, unworthy the name of patriotism; but, from a nation that has risen no higher than to erect a Chicago platform, and elect a man who would faithfully represent it, what more is to be expected?
I dissent from one point of Mr. Heywood’s argument, which may, perhaps, be owing to my ignorance, when he says to the North,—" Having repudiated your part of the pro-slavery compact, where is your right to hold the South obedient to theirs?" I will not concede so much of virtue at that to the North. I know that, theoretically, "the enlightened conscience of the North had revolted against the slave clauses of the Constitution"; but, practically, so far as legislation is concerned, she has always been guilty of craven submission, yielding more than the Constitution required. Though now, under the pressure of military necessity, she has been forced into some measures on the high road to universal emancipation, the Constitution still remains unchanged; so that the force of the slaveholding clauses might yet be restored, if a democratic administration should come into power.
So long as Abraham Lincoln upholds the Fugitive Slave Law, Heaven forbid that an Abolitionist should descend so low as to lend his sanction to this Government! A person with ardent feelings and an impulsive temperament will, doubtless, find it hard to refuse a helping hand when there is so much of promise to the slave; but when the smoke of the carnage is over, and reason resumes its away, and the still small voice of conscience rises above the dread artillery of war,— when the evils engendered by it shall be sown broadcast over the land,—he will probably realize that there are other duties beside those to the slave; and while he may consistently rejoice that his freedom has been achieved, he will also rejoice in the clear light that God has given, that he has maintained his integrity by remembering that he was a man before he was an Abolitionist.
"To thine own self be true, And it will follow as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man."
So far as the war is concerned, however, and the mass of those who compose it, it is an arrow’s flight ahead of the peace which preceded it, because that was a false peace, a "copperhead" peace, if my friend Hey wood will pardon the expression. Terrible as is the carnage and slaughter of the present hour, they are not more terrible than the cruelties practised on the slave for more than two centuries. And shall we murmur because these iniquities are now visited upon us and our children? Rather let us look upward and say," We thank thee, Father, for this chastisement, which we justly deserve; for we have grievously sinned in thy sight.".” The apostle says, "Be patient with one another." Salutary advice. The soldier chides the abolitionist and the non-resistant— one for resting on his armor in the midst of the strife, the other for the impracticability of his views. Ah, Mr. Soldier, if you had practised, their theories your life long, you would not need now to lay it down for your country. We would not need to suffer in common with you from bereavements, and all the evils incident to the strife. If we could afford to be patient with you, you can afford to be patient with us.
The city authorities of New York and Boston once deemed it not incumbent on them to put down a mob when its victims were Abolitionists. Now, they are themselves put down by the mob, and the military is summoned to defend them. Is it not the swift working of the law of retribution?
It is impossible to make men see the truth; they must be prepared to receive it before it can take root. There are truths so intensely spiritual, so divinely inspired, that they must be felt to be believed; they cannot be reasoned into.
I sometimes think thus of Non-Resistance, and I care very little to argue it, perhaps because its fundamental principles come to me through the instincts, and not through the intellect. It is for this reason, probably, that I differ so much from our friend S. S. Foster in his treatment of the subject. But I owe it to myself to make a confession here. I cannot longer consent to sail under false colors.
The term Non-Resistance, as it is generally under stood, implies all opposition to human governments, the repudiation of all outward authority. That point I have not gained. It may be cause of regret. Certainly, such a view is very consistent with its teachings, and it does not strike me as visionary or fanatical, but only impracticable in conformity with order. Every society, even for the discussion of this subject, has its president and vice-presidents, and other officers. 
Why should not a republican form of government proceed on the same plan? Of course, it must be more binding; but if it represents all the people, of every race and both sexes, there could not be much chance for expression. I know the off-repeated argument, that all governments must be based on force to be upheld,—on military force; but I do not believe it. Blackstone distinguished between law and compact thus—that law is a command given to us by a supreme power. Probably he would represent it by the English aristocracy, although under another name and compact, an agreement entered into by us, which is my idea of what a government might and should be. Probably some of my non-resistant friends will view this as a great inconsistency, taken in connection with some of my remarks upon the subject; and for this reason I wish to be distinctly understood, so as not to receive too much credit.
It is the principle of human brotherhood, the sacredness of human life, that I have sought to defend, and for the want of some more significant title adopted that, rather stealthily as I think. There is no significance in the term peace, either as adopted by this country or the English Peace Society, which is so peremptorily calling on this nation for peace, when there is no peace.
There is one thing I would like to see discarded on our platform, which is at variance with the recognized principles of Abolitionists, and that is to call for vengeance on England when the war is over.
<c03>
If we can take care of our own sins, it is probably as much as we shall be able to do for the present generation; and if we wish to repay her when our own peace and prosperity are restored, we can well afford to do it by forgiveness instead of retaliation.
It may be that there is great defection in the ranks of the non-resistants, which is a grievous conviction to those who remain true; but, if so, it springs from the intense interest felt for the freedom of the slave as recognized in the present struggle, and we must "pardon something to the spirit of liberty," even though through the red sea of blood.
S. E. W.
SOUTH ABINGTON, July 18,1863.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—We thank you, from our inmost soul, for publishing the Discourse of our good friend Hey wood. It is indeed manna from heaven, and gratifying and truly refreshing to witness so able a defence of the truth" as it is in Jesus"—especially at the present time, when nearly every one appears to have forgotten the “Higher Law." God bless our noble friend for this discourse, and you also for publishing it! How true it is that God reigns, and will bring good out of evil, and cause all things to be overruled in such a manner as to advance His glory, and the great principles of Christ’s kingdom!
O! in what estimation will posterity hold the author of the Declaration of Sentiments of the Anti-Slavery and Non-Resistance Societies, formed in 1833 and 1838!’ In our opinion, no commendation ever bestowed on any Christian man or philanthropist will more heartily be given. Already is it being given to the pioneer of the Anti-Slavery movement. We hope his advocacy and consistency of action, touching the Non-Resistance question will be as faithful as it has been in regard to the Anti-Slavery question. If so, great will be his reward.
But you must allow us to say, friend Garrison, we cannot exactly understand your present position with reference to your non-resistance principles. You have maintained in the anti-slavery struggle a faithful adherence to the right over expediency and governmental political usurpations. No end, however glorious, can sanction means that are wrong and sinful. Slavery is a sin, consequently it ought to be immediately abolished. If, by supporting Church or State, we there by support slavery, we are bound not to do so, but to withdraw from them. What affinity has Christ with Belial? “Let the dead bury their dead.” Thus have you reasoned, and the masses have, in some measure, followed you. A thorough revolution has been the result. Slavery is abolished.
Now, in regard to your non-resistance principles, you have been, and probably are at present, firm and decided in your belief of their truthfulness. War you consider a sin as well as slavery. How, then, can you support a government, or can I, that justifies war? Will the end, however glorious,—even the abolition of chattel slavery,—justify me in approving or sustaining war? You say I cannot sustain a government that tolerates slavery, because slavery is a sin; how, then, can I tolerate a government that tolerates war? To us, friend Garrison, there is here an inconsistency in your present conduct, which we cannot well solve, touching your approval of the war now being waged by our government. Loyalty to Christ and his government is as true when applied to war as when applied to slavery. “Touch not, taste not, handle not," is the only correct philosophy as it regards the temperance and anti-slavery causes. How does it happen the same correct principles do not apply to the non-resistance movement? We see no reason whatever. Sin is sin, whether it develop itself in intemperance, slavery or war, and should receive our condemnation. The rule of conduct which applies to one, applies with equal force to each of the others. And if we would see correct peace principles prevail, we must be as outspoken and consistent in our conduct touching war, as we are in our conduct touching intemperance and slavery. For ourselves, we cannot support war-like preparations, believing them to be contrary to the precepts and example of Christ. Loyalty to him, before loyalty to man’s devices. He commands us to love our enemies, not kill them. Forgive, if we wish to be forgiven; not only seven times, but seventy times seven. “Resist not evil, but overcome evil with good," &c. &c. &c.; sentiments diametrically opposite to war or present government requirements.
Again, allow us to speak a few kind words in regard to your remarks, introducing Mr. Heywood’s discourse to your readers. You say, in consequence of the “whirlwind and the earthquake" of our present civil war, you “deem it not wise to enter into the discussion of the question of non-resistance.” Why not? Do we argue so in regard to other great sins? When intemperance is destroying its thousands, shall the reformer desist from his temperance labors? Slavery has been growing more and more relentless; but have you ever advocated a withdrawal of moral force against it, in consequence of the "whirlwind and the earthquake"? It appears to us that the time to rebuke sin, to show its wickedness and deformity, and speak against it, is while sin abounds—when we see its awful effects and appalling consequences. So we argue in regard to intemperance and slavery; and why should war be an exception? Why not speak and act against the war spirit, as well as speak and act against other sins, at the time the evil manifests it-self? We do not, friend Garrison, exactly see your consistency here, touching this matter. We hope the question will be discussed, and rejoice that the ball has been set in motion by our noble friend Heywood. This great question is yet to be agitated. The Church and ministry are prophesying peace when slavery is abolished. “We shall then be free from agitation.” But we predict an agitation in the Christian world, with reference to the compatibility or incompatibility of war with Christianity, which will exceed in deep thought and interest any question heretofore considered or discussed by the Christian church. May you effectually lead the way!
Yours, for Christian truth and duty,
H. H. BRIGHAM.
MILFORD, July 20, 1863.
MY DEAR FRIEND—Last evening, E. H. Hey wood gave us his Music Hall lecture, as published in the Liberator, only “much more so.” Of course, we must attribute sincerity and honesty to our respected friend H. But it does seem that at this hour he is misunderstood, and fails to do justice to himself and those he so sharply calls to account. The hunkers and opponents to freedom in any and every shape— the haters of the negro and his friends—were in ecstacy with Mr. Heywood’s lecture. This was not only unfortunate, but entirely uncalled for.
At the close of the lecture, I took the liberty to say, that some of the remarks and positions assumed were liable, by a promiscuous audience, to be misunderstood—that they would be. He told us that the demoralization of the war upon the purest and best abolitionists had utterly astonished him; that two of the leading men had declared that the President was in fault for not hanging Vallahdigham! I called for an exposure of such, as I had failed to read or hear before of this revelation of vengeance, and he replied—" I am sorry to say the men I meant are Wm. L. Garrison and Edmund Quincy."
The conscription law he denounced as the most despotic one ever attempted to be enforced; that it could not and would not be enforced in New York; that Seymour had warned the people and the Government to this effect, and that in no possible extremity would it be executed.
In reply to this, I simply remarked, that I was willing to put my opinion against his, and added, that I believed the draft would be carried out, if it cost the life of every person in New York city. Even did I think with friend Heywood on this point, I would not say it in this hour of frenzy, for the reason that such remarks are the very incentives which have cost the shedding of innocent blood and the destruction of property in every place where the mob has broken out.
On the abstract question of non-resistance, Mr. H.
<c04>
is, many of us believe, in the right; but his voice is worse than lost at this hour—he is “casting pearls before swine." However we may regret the terrible method resorted to by a guilty nation, we must be content that “the dead bury their dead.” And if men in an unregenerate state will fight, can we refrain from the desire that they will fight on the side of freedom? So I feel, and so I pray. If it be inconsistent and reprehensible so to feel and so to pray, then I am guilty, and my fellow-men must make the most of it. All which is most heartily said in the deepest love and reverence for peace and good-will to my fellow-men. 
Yours, truly, GEO. W. STACY.

SPEECHES AND LECTURES BY WENDELL PHILLIPS.
James Redpath, 221 Washington street, publishes, in a beautifully printed volume of 562 pages, Speeches, Lectures, and Letters, by Wendell Phillips. It contains about one half of the Speeches made by Mr. Phillips during the last ten years, and reported; and others that were substantially set down beforehand by the orator. The first speech, on “The Murder of Lovejoy,” was reported by the late Mr. Hallett, who was one of the best reporters we have ever had; and of the others, Mr. Phillips, in a letter to the publisher, says—" The preservation of the rest you owe to phonography; and most of them to the unequalled skill and accuracy, which almost every New England speaker living can attest, of my friend, J. M. W. Yerrinton." This compliment to Mr. Yerrinton is well deserved, as he stands at the head of his calling. The collection has been made by Mr. Redpath at the earnest and repeated requests of the personal friends and the followers of Mr. Phillips; and Mr. Phillips himself modestly says of the Speeches and Lectures, “They will serve, at least, as a contribution to the history of our Anti-Slavery struggle, and especially as a specimen of the method and spirit of that movement, which takes its name from my illustrious friend, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON." There are twenty-four pieces in the volume, mostly Speeches, beginning with the speech on the “Murder of Lovejoy,” delivered toward the close of 1837, and ending with that on “The State of the Country,” delivered early in 1863. They thus cover a quarter of a century, and that quarter of a century, too, in which the struggle against the ascendency of the slaveholding interest occurred. Mr. Phillips, while yet in the prime of his wonderful intellect, lives to see his views embraced by millions, most of whom used to condemn them, and to consider him a dangerous agitator. Even those who do not now agree with him must be pleased to see his great works collected, for those works are valuable as historical illustrations, and would be so even if they were, like Cicero’s Philippics, the monuments of a ruined cause; but as they are the everlasting lights that come from the triumph of truth, their value is immeasurably increased. Let our quarrel be settled as it may, the Abolitionists, of whose opinions Mr. Phillips is "the great expounder,” have made so deep an impression on the American mind, that slavery can never again become what it was in those days when it was the predominant interest of the western world. Besides the speeches already named, we have in this volume those on Woman’s Rights, Public Opinion, Surrender of Sims, Philosophy of the Abolition Movement, Removal of Judge Loring, The Pilgrims, Harper’s Ferry, Burial of John Brown, Lincoln’s Election, Mobs and Education, Disunion, Progress, The War for the Union, the Cabinet, Toussaint I’Ouverture, The State of the Country, and others. There probably has never been published a volume in which so much powerful matter is to be found, while eloquent expressions adorn almost every page. It is a work that will live long after the quarrels of this time shall have become dull things in dull histories, and when men shall read them as we now read the old narratives of the struggle that took place in Corcyra and Athens. —Boston Traveller.

SUMMARY TREATMENT.
It will be seen by our local columns, that the attempt to introduce into this city the New York mode of settling disputed questions of constitutional law has not met with that success which was anticipated by the distinguished character of the men who have undertaken to propagate it. A number of Gov. Seymour’s “friends “—we quote his speech—having seen the riot satisfactorily inaugurated in that city, started for the east to spread the doctrine that the draft was “unnecessary and unconstitutional.” Some of them stopped here; some went on to Boston. They lingered about the public places, but things had an ugly look. The precautions which the authorities had taken rendered any disturbance a matter of more danger than it suited them to incur. Yet it would disgrace them irretrievably to go home without a fight. So two of them concluded to make an assault upon a negro; and they selected James Reeder, as quiet and peaceable a man as ever minded his own business and let other people’s alone. They began by informing, him that he was a “damned nigger,” and as this did not disturb his good nature, one of them seized him by the throat. Before his hand had closed upon it, the ruffian measured his length on the pavement. His companion came to his rescue only to share his fate. One well directed blow with the right arm, and another with the left, disposed of both of them. A police officer interposed, and the blackguards, howling and bleeding, were carried to the lock up, and Reeder quietly walked off, saying to the officer, “I will go anywhere with you, boss,” and lifting him with one arm, as though he had been a child. One of the scoundrels muttered, as he wiped his bloody face. “It is very different here from New York.” He was right. It is very different from New York. It is very different in that we are prepared for such fellows as he, and for the men higher in position and blacker in heart who set them on; it is different in that we have a Governor who will make no soft speeches to a mob, but will address them with powder and ball; it is different in that no blank cartridges will be fired. We have not such a useless thing in all our military stores, except a few for salutes.
Reeder belongs to that class of people who, the copperheads inform us, “will not fight.” To be sure, he bared his dusky breast to the bullets of the enemy at Bull Run, but that as the same copperheads inform us was only in an “abolition war.” We do not believe he will fight these fellows again, for he is too peaceable to make the first attack, and they will be too prudent. There are other New York roughs here, and among them several noted fighting characters. They are marked and watched. If one of them lays his hand in violence upon a peaceful citizen, black or white, native or foreign, we hope he will meet with such a reception as will take one vote from Seymour at the next election.—Providence Journal.
[These rioters, (John Kelley and Thos. A. Brown.) the Journal states, were arrested, and sentenced by the magistrates to pay a fine of $10 each and costs, and give surety in the sum of $200 to keep the peace four months—failing in which, they were committed. Thus these worthies are, for the present “under the protection of Providence."]

OUR NEGRO TROOPS. 
To the Editor of the London Morning Star.
SIR—Yesterday you remarked (in a leader upon the American war) as follows:—
"There are Sepoys in the English service, and Arabs in the French, why should there not be negroes in the American army?"
But there are negroes in the English army: the West India regiments are composed entirely of negroes; with a few exceptions, the non-commissioned officers thereof are likewise negroes.
The worth of these troops against an enemy I know not. I do know, however, that the “2d West India” volunteered to fight the Russians during the Crimean war—a proof, methinks, of appetite for battle.
Mark, too—the Government is now raising another black corps in lieu of the white St. Helena regiment. This looks as though “the authorities” deemed “niggers“ wholesome, food for powder, maugre the Times.
Again—I can assert from personal experience—having been quartered alongside negro corps in Barbados, Grenada and Trinidad—that our black comrades are soldierly on parade, of sober habits, of much docility, and, into the bargain, peculiarly strict in the doing of their duty, when posted on sentry, &c. They drill fairly, keep their arms clean; and, well fed, would doubtless fight stoutly; otherwise, why does our Government enlist them?
I am, sir, yours faithfully,
June 25. A FIELD OFFICER.
REBEL TENDER MERCIES. The Union women who were taken prisoners at Winchester, Perryville and vicinity, when Milroy was defeated, on arriving in Richmond were deprived of their surplus clothing, and it was sold at auction. Could anything be meaner?
A Union citizen, who escaped from Hagerstown last week, reports that the greatest confusion, pillage and destruction prevailed there. Citizens were ruthlessly shot down in the streets for paltry sums of money in their possession. Gen. Early threatened to shoot several Union ladies for the warmth with which they ventured to express their opinions. The rebel soldiery are very rough in their behavior. Property of all kinds was taken without scruple. Port-holes were cut through houses; horses were stolen in great numbers, while the farmers with their stock were migrating in all directions.
<c05>
FIENDISH CRUELTY OF THE MOB.
COL. O’BRIEN KILLED AND HORRIBLY MANGLED.
There were two howitzers placed in position, Supporting which were two companies of the Eleventh New York State Volunteers, under command of Col. O’Brien, who was on horseback. The military were formed-on Second avenue, at the corner of Thirty-fourth street, with the crowd on either side of them and a few in front, none expressing the slightest trepidation at the dangerous position in which they were placed. Bricks flew like hailstones among the soldiers. Col. O’Brien rode up and down in the centre, and then gave the command “Fire” to those who had charge of the howitzers. Some allege that these pieces were loaded with grape and cannister; but however this may be, there were several seen to fall at this time. The two companies of infantry of the Eleventh regiment, which were under the immediate command of Col. O’Brien, also opened a fire of Minie bullets, and committed some havoc among the crowd, which was firmly massed together at this point. The balls whistled around in almost every imaginable direction. Several fell upon the side-walks and in the middle of the street, and were carried into the various houses where their wounds were attended to. 
The action of Col. O’Brien, as described by several who were within a hearing distance of him during the whole time, is thus described from the commencement of the conflict. He urged on the soldiers to fire into and attack the people in all manner of ways. How true this is cannot be accurately determined with any degree of actual certainty; but the fate which he met with, as will shortly appear, is probably one of the most horrible that either history tells of or the present generation ever witnessed. Col. O’Brien had the entire command of the military. It was by his orders that they fired, and also by his instrumentality, whether he be right or wrong in the matter, that the heart’s blood of many an able youth was stopped in its flowings.
Probably the most heart-rending occurrence which one could imagine took place during this fight. Col. O’Brien held a revolver in his hand, and was riding up and down between either line of the crowd. He, as it is stated, fired his revolver into their midst, the ball killing a woman and child, which she held in her arms. After several rounds had been fired, the people began to disperse, and the police proceeded to another part of the city. Col. O’Brien and his command, however, remained. The Colonel dismounted from his horse, and walked into a drug store.
Had the commander of this military force taken his departure at this time, there is little doubt that his life would have been saved. But fatality had destined him for its victim, and he was a doomed man. Col O’Brien stayed in the drug store for some few minutes; it is thought that he went in to get some refreshments. The crowd were around the door at this time. There was scarcely a word spoken, but the lowering glances of one thousand men looked down in their vengeful spirit upon him as he stood in the door. He then drew his sword and with a revolver in the other hand walked out on the sidewalk in the very centre of the crowd. He was immediately surrounded, and one of the men came behind, and, striking him a heavy blow on the back of the bead, staggered him. The crowd then immediately surrounded him, and beat him in a most shocking manner.
After having been terribly beaten, his almost inanimate body was taken up in the strong arms of the crowd, and hurried to the first lamp post, where it was strung up by a rope. After a few minutes, the body was taken down, he being still alive, and thrown like so much rubbish into the street.
The body lay in the middle of the street, within a few yards of the corner of Thirty-fourth street. Nature shudders at the appalling scenes which here took place. The body was mutilated in such a manner that it was utterly impossible to recognize it. The head was nearly one mass of gore, while the clothes were also saturated with the crimson fluid of life. A crowd of some three hundred persons wounded the prostrate figure. These men looked upon the terrible sight with the greatest coolness, and some even smiled at the gay object. Our reporters walked leisurely among the crowd which surrounded the body, and in company with the rest gazed" upon the extended mass of flesh which was once the corpulent form of Colonel H. F. O’Brien. Notwithstanding the fearful process which the soldier had gone through, he was yet breathing with evident strength. The eyes were closed, but there was a very apparent twitching of the eyelids, while the lips were now and again convulsed, as if in the most intense agony. 
After lying for somewhat of an hour in this position, several of the crowd took hold of the body by the legs, and dragged it from side to side of the street. This operation was gone through with several times, when the crowd again left the body lying in its original position.
Had Colonel O’Brien been a man of weak constitution, he would certainly have ceased to exist long before this time. He was, however, through life, a man of great natural strength, and this fact probably kept him breathing longer than would any other common person. The crowd remarked this, and watched his every slightest movement with the most intense anxiety. Now and then the head would be raised from the ground, while an application of a foot from one of the crowd would dash the already mangled mass again to the earth. This conduct was carried on for some time, and when our reporter left, the body was still lying in the street, the last spark of existence evidently having taken flight.
Further particulars of his death.
The body was lying in the street from two o’clock until after six. Col. O’Brien was not hung at all. About three o’clock, the Rev. Father Clowrey arrived at the scene, and began to read the services of the Catholic Church over him. The occasion was one of marked and solemn interest. The priest stood over the dying man, while a large crowd surrounded him, but standing off in silent attitudes while they viewed the solemn scene. Around the neck of O’Brien a scapular was placed, which was recognized by the crowd, and added to their silent and quiet attitude. When the crowd saw that this was worn by Col. O’Brien, they desisted for a time from their work. They fell back until the priest had ended the ceremonial of reading over the body. When this was concluded, the priest turned to the crowd, and requested them to keep quiet, and not to assault Colonel O’Brien any more, as he was fast sinking. The reverend gentleman then left, and this was the signal for another onslaught upon the body, which was entered into with energy by the assembled multitude. In the neighborhood of seven o’clock, the body was carried into the yard of the house where Col. O’Brien lived.
Shortly before night fell upon the scene, the body was brought from the street into the backyard. Here it was followed by a crowd of some three hundred persons, and the scenes which here occurred in connection with the last moments of this dying man no pencil could paint and no pen describe in such a manner that our readers could properly appreciate or understand the horrible realities which here took place. A number of women were also on the ground, and they also assisted in the horrid actions which were carried on at the time. Probably the most noteworthy and melancholy feature in connection with the killing of this man was the fact that the occurrence took place immediately in front of his own house, and his last gasp was given in the yard of the same.
When the body was dragged into the yard, there was nothing upon it but the pantaloons. The remaining portion of the body was naked and covered with blood, while the head was one mass of jellied flesh.
One man came up, and, placing a dirk knife into the hands of a boy scarcely twelve years old, who was present, requested him to plunge it into the prostrate body of the dying man, which act was about being performed, when several of the crowd interfered, and the horrible attempt was frustrated. 
While the body lay in the yard, life still appeared, although feebly, until about eight o’clock. Then it was that the last glimmer of existence seemed fast going out. Col. O’Brien lay at full length upon the ground, and, notwithstanding the horrible attempts which had been made to crush out his wavering life, yet energetic manhood had still kept him in the land of the living, and his head rolled from side to side, while at the same time he groaned in feeble, but apparently excruciating agony. There was a seeming pause, the head rose once more a few inches from the ground, the muscles were convulsed and again relaxed, the gory features were drawn up in horrid agony, and then, with one deep sigh, the soul of Col. H. F. O’Brien was launched into eternity. The body was then carried out, and removed to the deadhouse at Bellevue Hospital—N. Y. Herald.
<c06>
Second Edition, Published This Day, July 31.
SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND
LETTERS,
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octavo, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, uniform with their admired edition of De Toequeville’s Democracy in America, it will challenge it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture.

Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by the author.
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips’ works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.
CONTENTS:
I. 
The Murder of Lovejoy.
II.
Woman’s Rights.
III.
Public Opinion.
IV.
Surrender of Sims.

V.
Sims Anniversary.
VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement.
VII.
Removal of Judge Loring.
VIII.
The Boston Mob.
IX.
The Pilgrims.
X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker.
XI.
Idols.
XII.
Harper’s Ferry.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown.
XIV.
Lincoln’s Election.
XV.
Mobs and Education.
XVI.
Disunion.
XVII. 
Progress.
XVIII. 
Under the Flag.
XIX.
The War for the Union.
XX.
The Cabinet.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.
XXII.
Toussaint L’Ouverture.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.
XXIV.
The State of the Country.
This book will be sold by the Publisher and his Traveling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire Country,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to causes their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for 
Counties.
The volume will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular. 

JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street, 
BOSTON.
IN PREPARATION.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY
Miss L.M.Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author’s last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of shout 128 pages.
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted in any journal.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, 
221 Washington Street. 
BOSTON.
46
