THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
-221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $ 1.50 s for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV.NO.28. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1797.
Selections.
<c01>
THE NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
Nobody can take up an American newspaper without seeing that if the United  States have just emerged from one great strife, they are about to enter on another. The weapons, indeed, with which this second warfare will be waged are of a different kind from those used in the great conflict that has just terminated, but the cause is nearly the same, and we expect the history will be not altogether dissimilar. If after criminally” appealing from the. ballot to the bullet," they appeal once more from the bullet to the ballot, their fight will still be about ”the everlasting nigger," and the end will probably he that the said everlasting nigger will gain fuller advantages and a more perfect citizenship than even the most enthusiastic abolitionist would have thought it wise to confer upon him at the outset of the recent war. Indeed, it is clear that the Nemesis of slavery will pursue the United States with her terrible scourge until the last remnant of the great iniquity has been blotted out; that she will allow them no rest until they have taken that the wretched creatures they reared to oppress, and adopted them as their own children; that she will force them to drink to the last drop the bitter cup they prepared for this unhappy race, and to welcome as friends those they had doomed to a fate of everlasting bondage. America's sins have recoiled on her own head with fearful vengeance. For years the slavery that blackened her fame in the eyes of the world was like  a fever raging in her own body, distracting her with fearful throes which perpetually threatened her with dissolution, making brother to brother bitterer than a sworn foe, increasing yearly the meanness  of her shifts and the perplexities of her straits, driving the South to a violence which shocked civilization and the North to cowardly concessions which deprived her of all respect in the eyes of her best citizens and of the rest of the world. Then at length the concessions of the North reached their limit; her own sense of shame and right refused to give way before the cowardly dictates of a momentary expediency; the South, finding her despotic supremacy disputed, determined to secede, and the bloody rebellion which has just been brought to a close was treacherously inaugurated. And so for four cruel years brother was ranged against brother on the field of battle, and not until ”every drop of blood drawn with the lash was repaid by another drawn with the sword," did the fearful stream of civil slaughter cease to flow. But still the wrong is not fully atoned for. Still the phantom haunts the people, and another great struggle upon the same question of negro rights seems about to commence.
The features and nature of the present struggle are, indeed, very different. The mere statement of the case shows how prodigious an advance has been made, and proves to a demonstration the benefits that have accrued to the negro race from this war, which, according to some high authorities, was to end in their extermination. It is no longer a question as to whether they are to be held in bondage or allowed to recover their liberty, it is not even a question as to whether they are to be permitted the protection of the law like free citizens, but it is as to whether they are to be put at once on a perfect equality with the white citizens by being admitted to the privileges of the ballot-box. These  people whom a few years ago we were told by Southern planters, backed by British philosophers of the Carter-Blake sort, to regard as a sort of half-humanized apes, sufficiently advanced in the transforming process to utter articulate sounds, but incapable of forming reasonable opinions or exercising rational self control, are now adjudged by a large part of the inhabitants of America, including a vast majority of the citizens of Connecticut, quite capable not only of governing their own actions, but of taking part in determining the government of the country in which they have been brought out. Surely strange things have come to pass in the land, and the war which has passed like a fire over the country must have withered up a vast number of old prejudices, and recast a vast number of old speculations and ideas, before such a proposition could even be named without calling down a storm .of contemptuous ridicule from all ranks and classes of people. Five years ago, what word could be more insulting than ”Abolitionist" applied to anybody who inspired to take the smallest practical part in the management of public affairs? What taunt so keen and bitter against any party in the State as that of being ”nigger worshippers"? And now the leading abolitionists are some of them spoken of as conservatives, and the ”nigger worshippers" of former days are many of them standing aghast at the lengths to which multitudes of their former persecutors are ready to go in the matter of the negro suffrage.
But however gratifying this question may be when looked at in comparison with the past, it is sufficiently grave when looked at in the light of the present. Nobody can deny that the negroes are low in intelligence, not because they lack average intellectual powers, but because they have lacked average opportunities. Education has been denied them, and their lowest faculties have alone been developed by the cruel law of the lash by every law of safety, then, one would think that they ought to be excluded from the political trust of the suffrage until some better security can be obtained for their intelligent exercise of such a privilege.  Four million negroes exercising the suffrage would nullify the votes of four million white men, and thus, to a large extent, education and enlightenment would be reduced to ciphers by ignorance and prejudice. The enfranchisement of those who could only use the right to their own injury would be the disfranchisement of multitudes of others who now exercise it with intelligence and public advantage. Whatever our desire for the freedom and good treatment of the negro race, is not this a case in which we are bound to pause, and look seriously ahead, before committing ourselves to so vast and irretrievable a step as that which we are now urged to take? Such is the language of many even of the friends of the negro, and no person who looks at the question with a British eye can fail to admit the cogency and force of the reasoning,. Looked at with an American eye, however, there is at least a good deal to be said on the other side: and without at all basing our arguments on the rights of man or the wisdom and justice of manhood suffrage, we think the case for admitting the negro to this privilege is much stronger than the case for excluding him. The American Constitution essentially differs from our own in this particular, that under it, not by express terms, but by almost universal practice, the, right of voting is exactly conterminous with the right of citizenship. Every Irish or German emigrant who is naturalized in the United States has just as clear and indisputable a right to vote as the head of the oldest family or wealthiest firm in New York or Philadelphia. This may be wise or unwise. The” Know-nothing" party, which for a short time obtained great influence during the presidency of Franklin Pierce, were
<c02>
so convinced of its evils that they organized themselves on the express basis of excluding new emigrants from the right of voting. But the majority of enlightened and thinking men in America attach great importance to the preservation of this right in all its integrity, believing that while it is certainly attended with some evils, its effect is to make all new settlers in the country entertain at once the feelings of citizens, and so to encourage the emigration on which the development of the country so largely depends. The policy, therefore, of at once admitting all men of suitable age to the rights of the suffrage is thoroughly unwoven with all American ideas, insomuch that it is almost impossible to think of citizenship or freedom without thinking also of the suffrage.  Hitherto every conception of freedom has been associated with the right of voting, and every conception of exclusion from the right of voting has been associated with slavery. The exclusion of the negro must, therefore, always indicate social and personal inferiority -must always be a badge of disgrace and contumely—and must necessarily cease before the negro can in other respects enjoy the equality and rights of citizenship to which the North wishes him to be raised. 
But besides this, the grand questions now in discussion in America mainly affect the negroes. All the legislation of the Southern States, and much of the legislation of the Federal Government, will in future turn on matters connected with the treatment and position of the free black population. If justice should be denied them, much of the evil of slavery and much of the spirit which slavery engendered, much of the former sectional divisions and much of bitterness and hostility which those sectional divisions occasioned, are sure to survive, and to plague the country for years to come. If, on the other hand, the negro can secure fair treatment, a legislation as beneficial to him as to the white population, equality in the eye of the law, in the witness-box, and in all positions where the two races are brought into competition, the fusion of all parts and parties in the Union will be complete and rapid. Now how is this great result to be secured while the negro is excluded from all share in determining these questions? Is it probable that the white people who have so long oppressed him will voluntarily do him the justice which he demands? When his own fate is chiefly at stake, is it not necessary, in order to secure him decent justice, that he himself should have a voice in its decision? Whatever may be his fitness to vote on matters of abstract politics, he has, even in the lowest depths of slavery, understood far better than British writers the true bearing of those great questions which have been debated at the polling booth and on the battle-field during the last ten years. In 1856, all the plantation hands in the. South knew that the issue between Buchanan and Fremont was one of slavery-extension or slavery-restriction.  Since 1861, all the horrible stories circulated by their masters as to the intention of the Yankees have not deceived them, and they have fled to the Northern camps whenever they had an opportunity. They will know, then, far better than the whites, the sound view to be taken on those social questions affecting their own welfare, which must for some time engage the principal attention of the State legislatures. After these are settled, indeed, we admit that their present knowledge would be inadequate to grapple with the new questions which are sure to arise. But with the negroes then be in their present low moral and mental condition? They know the advantages of education, and will take care to secure it, so that by the time other questions, in which their interests are less immediately concerned, and to which their knowledge less intimately applies, come up for the discussion of the State legislatures, they will probably be able to return as intelligent answers as the average of their white fellow-citizens. We believe, therefore, startling as it may sound, that a negro suffrage would be the greatest possible boon, not only to the negro race, but to all classes and colors in the United States.-Leeds Mercury.

GEERIT SMITH ON TREASON.
We have before us the speech of Hon. Gerrit Smith, recently delivered at the Cooper Institute, and published by the American News Company, It is entitled, ”No Treason in Civil War." The opening sentence of Mr. Smith gives us a distinct idea of the ground assumed:
"The South, by plunging the nation into this horrid war, committed the great crime of the age.  The North, under the persistent urgency of press and pulpit to punish the South for treason, is in danger of committing the mean crime of the age. 
This, as it seems to us, bears on the face of it an evidence of grave error.  A great crime, the greatest crime of the age, has been committed; what follows?  Oar reasoning would be, A great crime the greatest crime of the age, has been committed; what follows? Our reasoning would be, A great crime has been committed, therefore it must be punished. Mr. Smith's reasoning is, A great crime has been committed, therefore it must not be punished.  Davis committed the great crime of the age, in committing treason; we should commit a mean crime in punishing the treason. Strange conclusion from such a premise!  Still, if it can be established that we have neither legal nor moral right to try the rebels for treason," let us accept it, and act accordingly.
The gist of Mr. Smith's argument appears to be this: That there are two codes of law, the civil code and the code of war; that when we went to war with the rebels, we acknowledged them as belligerents; that having resorted to the war code, we can no longer avail ourselves of the civil code; that amongst other things we have established a blockade, which proves ”beyond controversy that we consented to conduct the war according to the law of war;” that" our agreement thus to conduct the war was our waiver of all right, our surrender of all claim, to punish the South for treason," and that it was a” virtual agreement not to punish her for it."
 We are said to have made” an agreement." When? Where? How?  We have no know knowledge of any such agreement. An agreement must be something expressed; there must be a promise. We cannot believe that our government have ever made any such promise. All we have done to the rebels is to fight them. If fighting involves an argument or promise to exercise no civil authority over the rebels, then we were certainly in a very bad case when the rebellion broke out-reduced to the alternative of either directly recognizing their independence, or of doing it indirectly by going to war! It will take very strong arguments to show us that, turn whichever way we might, we were under the necessity of conceding the principle of secession. 
Renouncing civil laws, we are to govern ourselves by the laws of war.  But what are the laws of war? Unfortunately, there is no such code in existence. For the convenience of neutral nations there are certain rules adopted in regard to belligerents, but who makes laws for the nations that are in conflict?  There are no such laws. War is the absence of law. Force is the only law to which war appeals.
<c03>
The conqueror does what he pleases.  If he decides to kill his captives, he does so. Where is the grand court of nations to step in and prevent such barbarism? The truth is that every nation makes its own rules of warfare.  If ancient barbarities are discontinued, it is not from any force of laws, either real or imaginary, but simply from the pleasure of the conqueror, and from his clearer sense of justice induced by an improving Christian civilization.  The idea that any law of war prevents the killing of Jeff. Davis is altogether untenable. We have entered into no promise, agreement or obligation whatever to spare his life, nor is there any law of nations that would afford him the slightest relief. 
But, granting the existence of such a code of laws as is claimed, how would it affect the present case? Are the laws of war superior to the laws of Congress? Especially when war is over and peace resumes its sway, does this imaginary war code still exercise its annihilating power over our civil laws? Mr. Smith seems to take it for granted that persons cannot be amenable to both civil law and military law.  Why not?  Does it seem reasonable that Jeff. Davis had the power to wipe out the crime of treason by merely transforming himself into a public enemy?  That he could cancel one crime by adding to it another? Congress says that treason consists in levying war upon the United States; but according to this pamphlet, as soon as Davis becomes a belligerent, he is a traitor no longer.
The arguments and authorities given by Mr. Smith against a wholesale execution of the rebels have no force in the present case, because no one proposes any such wholesale execution.  The saying of Burke, that he knew” no method of drawing up an indictment against a whole people," is only applicable to the masses that were drawn into the rebellion. The quotation from Lieber, that” no one incurs the guilt of treason by adherence to a king or government de facto," can only be urged in behalf of those who entered the rebellion after it was established. It cannot apply to the original conspirators. They are unquestionably traitors. As such, they must suffer the punishment of death, or at least so many of them as are necessary for an example. Otherwise, the acts of Congress become simply a farce, and our government a pitiable imbecility. In the present opposition to the capital punishment of Jefferson Davis, we see the germs of future anarchy. We are amazed at the little reverence for law which we see everywhere among us. Let our President pardon the chief rebels, and send them to Europe to be lionized, and it will require but a few more generations to witness the restoration of monarchy upon our soil.-American Baptist.

EXPERIENCE OF A UNION SOLDIER IN A REBEL PRISON. 
CAMBRIDGEEPORT, June 25th, 1865. 
Editors of Traveller; 
So much has been said, and so often, concerning the murderous treatment of our prisoners during the late war, that it is almost an old story-but at the urgent solicitation of a few friends, I am induced to write a brief narrative of the scenes and sufferings through which. we passed while prisoners of war at Salisbury, N. C I was captured with 34 others of my regiment, the 38th, at the battle of Cedar Run, on the 19th of last October, which battle is still fresh in the memory of your readers, and especially Sheridan's famous ride-when he reached the scene of action, to turn a defeat into a victory. The rebels captured in all, that morning, some fifteen hundred men. After keeping us in the rear all day, and stripping our boys of almost everything, we fell in without rations, and marched to Staunton, Va., 93 miles, on one print of flour, It was a forced march, as they were afraid our cavalry would recapture us. Arriving in Staunton, we found a train of cars waiting" to carry us to Richmond. 
Before leaving Staunton, they gave us four hardtack a-piece, and then crowded us into box-cars like cattle. Each car was suitable for holding about thirty, but seventy were placed in each car. We reached Richmond on a Sunday morning, and the first cry that met our ears was” More Yanks!" We were placed in Libby Prison, where we remained ten days, and were again crowded into box-cars and started for Salisbury, N. C. This was the first of November. They told us that it would take three days to reach our destination, and gave each man one pound of corn bread and a small piece of maggotty pork. We were delayed on the road, and had to lay over at Greensboro', N. C. They kept us in an open lot all night under a cold November rain storm, with nothing but the canopy of heaven for a covering. 
But little did we know what was awaiting us next. We reached Salisbury on the evening of the 4th-still rainy and cold-and were ushered into the bull pen, and passed another such night as we did at Greensboro'. We did not get anything to eat until 9 o'clock the next evening-five days from the time we left Richmond, on one pound of corn bread. After being at Salisbury two days, they brought us in some old smoky tents, each one suitable to hold eight, but thirty were the number counted off to occupy them. We were counted off in divisions, a thousand in each division-ours was the ninth-making nine thousand men in all Our daily allowance was a half pound of corn-cob bread, baked without salt; and some days we would get nothing but a half pint of what they termed rice soup, but what the boys called slops. Those that had the strength dug holes in the ground to keep from freezing. The average number of deaths each day was about 40.
I have seen men in the months of December and January without shoes or stockings, with frozen feet, standing on the hospital steps, with tears in their eyes, and hollow cheeks and attenuated frames, beg a chance to go in and die. Out of the ten thousand persons confined, not more than one quarter were under cover. Some would crawl in under the hospital buildings only to die. Men would die reckless. One young man was asked if he had any message to send home; his only reply was,” Tell my mother I hope I will meet her in heaven." Others would say,” I do not (ear to meet death; I have faced it too often on the battle-field; but what will become of my wife and little ones?” In the middle of last December, while Gen. Warren was marching toward Danville, it was reported in the prison that his cavalry had got within 40 miles of Salisbury, and were then checked.  The same afternoon we attempted a break, making for the big gate, which led into the town, but they opened on us with grape and canister, killing and wounding about forty; and the attempt proved unsuccessful. 
Two of my comrades ("Joseph Randall and Corporal James C. Osborne, of Abington) and myself dug a hole in the ground, but Corporal Osborne was taken sick of a Monday, and died along side of me on the following Friday night . Only the day before his death he talked of home, and hoped we would soon get paroled. Groups would get together, and talk of exchange-while others, pointing to the dead
<c04>
cart, would make the remark: ”There is the exchange you will get."  Some six thousand died from October to February. Those that stood the test were the old soldiers of hard campaigns-while the new recruits, that had just entered the service, would give right up and die. The question, who was to blame for our treatment, every one can solve__ -Jefferson Davis and his cabinet, who at their secret sessions passed an act to starve prisoners. 
G. S.

THE COUNT DE PARIS ON THE DEATH OF MR.LINCOLN.  
The Boston Transcript publishes the following letter from the Count de Paris, addressed to Senator 
"TWICKENHAM, May 5, 1865. 
DEAR SIR: You stood by the death-bed of the good and noble-hearted man who was torn from the love and confidence of a great nation on the fatal night of the 14th of April; you received the last breath of one on whom all the friends of America, looked as the worthy representative of her free institutions.  You will, therefore, understand that after reading the sad particulars of that horrible tragedy, I should feel anxious to confide you my to deep emotion and my bitter grief. I should not have presumed to add my voice to the unanimous expressions of sympathy offered by Europe to your fellow-citizens, if my personal relations with Mr. Lincoln, which henceforth will remain among the most precious recollections of my youth, had not added something in my eyes to the magnitude of that public calamity.  My brother and myself will both always gratefully remember the way in which he admitted us four years ago into the federal army, the opportunity he then gave us to serve a cause to which we already felt bound by our family traditions, our sympathies as Frenchmen and our political creed. 
Those who saw Mr. Lincoln during the great ordeal when everything seemed to conspire against the salvation of the republic, will never forget the honest man who, without personal ambition, always supported by a strong perception of his duties, deserved to be called emphatically a great, citizen. And when the dreadful crisis during which he presided over the destinies of America will belong to history, when its bloody track will disappear under the rapid growth of an invigorated nation and a regenerated community, people will only remember its beneficial results, the destruction of slavery, the preservation of free institutions, and will ever associate with them the name of Mr. Lincoln. In this struggle with slavery, his name will remain illustrious among those of the indefatigable apostles who fought before him, and who will achieve his work.  But it will also be said of him that he secured the preservation of the Union through a tremendous civil war, without ceasing to respect the authority of the law and the liberty of his fellow-citizens; that in the hour of trial he was the Chief Magistrate of a people who knew how to seek in the fullest use of the broadest liberties the spring of national endurance and energy.
I beg you, sir, to excuse the length of this letter; you know that it is inspired by the feelings of my heart. 
Believe me, my dear sir, yours very truly, 
LOUIS PHILIPPE D'ORLEANS.
To Hon. Charles Sumner, Senator U. S."

WHOSE TURN IS IT NOW TO” CONCILIATE?"
We find in the Green Bay Advocate-a democratic paper of sterling ability-an article, on” Conciliation," written in the best style of its accomplished editor. 
It recites the fact that we have been for some generations” conciliating" a few families of chivalry at the South, and that these acts of good nature on our part were taken as marks of poltroonery and weakness, and incited them to further acts of arrogance, and to more importunate demands. With some of these we could not comply, and so they judged from our previous patience, which they called cowardice, that we would remain passive, and they” undertook to destroy us as a nation-to humble us-to establish their supremacy as a race." 
This they failed to do.  It turned out that they are the worst whipped bullies that ever kicked up a row with peace-loving people.  But they have lost little of their arrogance. In their defeated and acknowledged weakness, they were sulky and obstinate; in their seedy attire and threadbare finery, they still try to strut about with their old pride; they are stubborn and insolent.  And in their behalf, still unchastened in their adversity, and learning no wisdom from experience, there are some soft-hearted humanitarians and some ambitious demagogues who are resorting to the same old talk about” conciliation."  The Advocate's indignation is justly roused, and it says:—
If there is to be more 'conciliation,' we ask, in the name of all that is decent, whose turn is it to be conciliated now? Is there not a North to be conciliated? A North which has been broken in upon while minding its own business, obeying the laws, and honoring the name of the country; a North which has had to stop the wheel of the mill, the  plough in the furrow,  and  the  engine on the track, while it should send its sons to resist these enemies of industry and order.  If there is anger to be appeased, if there are wounds to heal over, if there is good will to be courted, where is the field for it but right here at home? The South never sustained a wrong at the hands of the North. How is it on the other side? Where are our multitudes of brave men, ”who ought to be with us today? Where are the millions and millions of treasure gone, to repay which we must devote a lifetime of labor, we and our sons, and sons' sons? Have we nothing to be aggrieved over, but are we rather to enter upon the task of conciliating those who brought this trouble upon us?” 
And so say we. We would not treat them with malice and anger. We would not deal with unmerited harshness concerning them; -we would not sting them with reproaches. Neither would we now be lachrymose and pitiful. We would treat them with cool, dispassionate and even-handed justice. We would consider what was best for the government; and, if wise policy would be served by abating some penalties for crime, we would do it; but we would do it on that ground alone, not as a mercy to criminals. Without spleen or hate, or any consideration but the righteous administration of law, and the good of the country whose existence we have preserved from the destruction they aimed towards it, we would try, and acquit or convict, according to the facts, and punish or pardon according to their guilt, their temptation, and the measure, if any, of their repentance. But we would not yield from weakness a hair's breadth for the sake of ”conciliation," or because their wishes, their untempered pride, or their threats merited a moment's consideration.—Capital.
<c05>
SUMMER FRIENDS,
If the advice which British statesmen are now lavishing on our government were carefully coined, we should be in a fair way of paying the national debt. The magnificent patronage which your real high-going Englishmen now extend to us is already quite without parallel, and threatens to become still more intense and aggressive. Lord Brougham, who suffered no grass to grow under his ancient feet while he hastened to lay all his sympathies on the confederate altar a few years ago, and who found no opportunity in the interval to speak a fair or a just word for our cause, now offers his advice in the following patronizing style:
"If his voice could reach across the Atlantic, it would tell our kinsmen that their best friends, those who have been their advocates through good report and through had report, now pray and beseech them to use the victory which, by great courage, great perseverance, and no little military skill, they have gained, in mercy as well as in justice."
If there were occasion for anxiety lest the quality of mercy should be” strained" in our dealing with the rebels, the advice of the garrulous  Lord Brougham would be shorn of its proper influence by the fact that his fair speech only came with fair weather. While the war lasted, few men talked upon American affairs so often or so long,-for he is the most garrulous of men,-and no man was so uniformly partial and unjust both in his statement of facts and of the issues wrapped up in the conflict. His assumption to speak in the name of the” best friends" of America is a specimen of pure British arrogance. Lord Derby, the great lore leader, is another of those eminent men whose counsel and influence were shared with the secessionists abroad, and tended to prolong the struggle, as much as the influence of a foreigner could. He also has a word to offer:
"It may not be out of the way that I should express a hope, entertained not only by myself, but by the noble earl opposite, not only by this house, but by the country at large, and by the whole civilized world, that the party which has achieved so signal a victory will follow a course not dictated by revenge or violence-that they may seek not to exasperate the feelings of their former antagonists, which have been already too much embittered; but will endeavor by deeds of conciliation and of mercy to re-cement, if possible, a Union so nearly dissolved; and that they will consent to treat those whom the fort ones of war have placed at their disposal, not as revolted subjects, but as vanquished, though not dishonored, enemies."
To re-cement, if possible, a Union so nearly dissolved! That is cool. We shall next have Black-wood and the London Quarterly expressing sympathy, and trying to save us from exposure to high winds and the night air. If the wedges of British prejudice and hatred, wrought introit forges, and placed at the disposal of any pirate or traitor who called for them, could have parted the Union hopelessly, there would have been no republican government to-day to be mocked by the pretentious sympathy of those who were its bitterest enemies. The place for men like Derby and Brougham, when the war was over, was in the dust, with Punch, whose penance after the assassination was an example for all falsifiers:
"You, whose smart pen backed up the pencil's laugh, 
Judging each step as though the way were plain, 
Reckless, so it could point its paragraph
Of chief's perplexity, or people's pain.
 Beside this corpse, that bears for winding sheet,
The stars and stripes he lived to rear anew,
Between the mourners at his head and feet,
Say, scurrile, jester, is there room for you?
Yes, he that lived to shame me from my sneer, 
To lame my pencil, and confute my pen-
To make me own this hind of princes peer, 
This rail-splitter a true-born king of men.”
-Worcester-Spy.

THE ANTI-NIGGER PARTY.
A considerable number of people, especially in the South, ex-rebels and their friends, seem bent upon attempting to pacificate the country and restore the government upon the basis of contempt, hatred, and malignant persecution of the negro. By such persons it is considered meritorious to speak of the” nigger" in terms of contempt, disgust, or enmity, and quite ludicrous to talk about his rights, now that the war is over.  In the South the negro-haters are chiefly rebels, not yet purged of their treason, and they are entering upon a systematic course of robbing, cheating, abusing and harassing the negroes, because they have been made free by the war.  Being too lazy to work themselves, these mean sacs whites seek revenge upon the poor negro, whose freedom imposes upon them the necessity of earning their own living. As the mass of the Southern whites have always been taken care of by the negro, without pay, they are naturally enraged at the success of emancipation, and vent their spleen on those who are least responsible for this result. 
The negro-hating party is rapidly exhibiting its proportions and its characteristics, and we venture to predict that it will be the meanest party, the most perfidlous, and the most cruel, that ever disgraced American politics. The old pro-slavery party had the merit of being, so far as the slave masters at least were concerned, interested to preserve the good will of the negro and therefore to promote his welfare; but a party confessedly based upon an unreasonable prejudice, and not upon a principle, either political or moral-based upon contempt for a great mass of God's children-and going forth to poison a community with rancorous hatred of those who are weak and despised, it too unutterably degraded to be countenanced by intelligent and virtuous people.  But such is the” anti-nigger” party. A party which holds that the negro has no rights that a white man is bound to respect. A party which considers it much more important for a man to be white in his skin than to be loyal in his opinions and conduct; and which welcomes to its embrace with great joy the mean white man who for four years has endeavored to destroy the American government, and kicks and curses the black man who has been loyal and true to the Union and the flag throughout the contest. 
Perhaps the. American Government could settle down in peace and honor upon this basis, but we rather think not. Injustice, prejudice, meanness and cruelty, are not the best foundations for a government, and we do not believe that the American people, after sustaining so grandly our noble four years' war, are going to subside into an ignoble or contemptible mood.-Salem Observer.
REBELLION ARCHIVES OF TENNESSEE. The recaptured archives of the State of Tennessee tell many a tale of Rebel villainy. Gov. Harris's papers are full of the secret history of the Rebellion. Among other papers on file, and indorsed by Harris, is a proposition to assassinate Gov. Johnson in Nashville.
<c06>
DEDICATION OF THE STATUE OF HORACE MANN.
We give below the speeches made at the dedication of the Statue of Horace Mann, in the State House Yard, Boston, on the morning of July 4th, 1865:-
SPEECH OF DR. SAMUEL G. HOWE.
Friends and Fellow Citizens: The instincts of mankind in all ages have led men to erect monuments of some kind to perpetuate the memory of those individuals who manifested in any striking degree qualities which were held in high esteem in their days. Savages raise a pile of stones over the bodies of their strongest and most cunning chiefs; barbarians erect monuments to the great destroyers. Some civilized people erect statues to great Generals; democracies raise statues to great orators; aristocracies to kings and rulers. Given the monuments of any people or any set of men, and you may know the character of the people or men
In all ages the highest arts have been called upon to celebrate and perpetuate on canvas, in marble or bronze, the virtues and excellencies of those whom the people held in high esteem. Hitherto, for the most part, these honors have been monopolized by the great fighters, by the great writers, or by the great talkers. We, to-day, dedicate a monument to the memory of a man whose greatness consisted in his love for his fellow-men, in his confidence in their innate goodness and their capacity for improvement, and in his burning zeal to elevate and to improve his fellow-men. He loved the people, he lived for and labored for the people, may, be died for the people, inasmuch as his premature death was brought on by over zeal and over work in the cause of the education of the people. Fellow-citizens, it is proper that such a State as Massachusetts should rear a monument to such a man, for it is alike the proof of his greatness and goodness, and of their virtue and intelligence. And the people of Massachusetts have done it; for the means for erecting this statue were given by the people at large, not by the rich. A few rich gave of their abundance, many more gave of their poverty. The schoolmaster who could spare but a dollar, and the schoolmistress who could spare but fifty cents, and the little boys and girls who could give but a dime, have all contributed to this work; and the State of Massachusetts herself, as if to stamp her approval upon it, by the vote of the Legislature contributed money to build the pedestal. The work itself has been done by a woman, by a woman of genius and art, by a woman who was inspired by the nobleness of her subject, and whose cunning hand has wrought out in bronze the monument which we now unveil to you-the statue of Horace Mann.
Applause greeted the unveiling of the statue to the multitude, attended also by music from the band. Maggie P. Walker, a little daughter of James P. Walker, ascended the platform, and placed a wreath of laurel upon the head of the statue, eliciting renewed enthusiasm. After instrumental and vocal music, prayer was then offered by Rev. Dr. R. C. Waterston. His Excellency the Governor was then introduced, and received with applause. He addressed the assembly as follows:- 
SPEECH OF GOV. ANDREW.
On the 17th of June, the anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, we dedicated on the banks of the Merrimack a votive column, reared to the memory of those who fell as the first martyrs in the great rebellion. To-day, the 4th of July, near the shore of the bay of Massachusetts, we inaugurate this statue of enduring bronze to preserve in memory, and to hand down to the generations, the form and features of a sage, whose life helped to make those simple citizens heroic soldiers, and to render possible the triumph of liberty and manhood, of which the demonstrations signalizing this anniversary are a joyful and continental celebration.
They were young, and bore the weapons of war when they fell. He was mature in age, and knew no weapon but his voice and pen. They obeyed their country, and marched the moment they heard her call. He was elect from his early manhood to his high vocation, when at his graduation from College he discoursed on” The Progressive Character of the Human Race." Theirs was a brief, sharp conflict. His were the struggle and the toil of many manly years. Worn out by excessive devotion to his work, he-not less than they who were slain in the fight-seemed to the vision of man to have died before his time. 
In May, 1796, HORACE MASS was born, a native of Massachusetts. Graduated at Brown University in Rhode Island, where he was afterwards a tutor of Latin and Greek, he became in 1823 a member of the bar of Norfolk. The next year, 41 years ago this day, he delivered at Dedham an Oration commemorative of American Independence. Three years after that, he was chosen to represent the town of Dedham in the General Court of the Commonwealth. In 1836 he was President of the Senate, having been elected a Senator from Suffolk, where he had removed his residence, and become a citizen of Boston. 
It was in his chair as the presiding officer of the Senate that I first saw this truly eminent and most impressive person, who, though already ripe in age, mature in thought, and of much experience in affairs, had then scarcely laid the visible foundation of his subsequent great and enduring fame. It was one year later than that when he became Secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Education.  And in that new position which, he created; rather than filled, he rose, by a rare genius for a work in which he could become the benefactor of mankind, to lasting and acknowledged greatness. He proved how lofty thought, how grand ideas, exact and precise learning, combined with poetic conception, with careful and toilsome elaboration of the humblest details, and with energy and undying faith, could be united and made visibly manifest in the life of a single man.
It is hardly too much to affirm that the eleven years of his service, as the head of the system of popular education in Massachusetts, lifted the cause itself into a prominence and value in the public thought not known before, reformed and vitalized the system itself; and thus far until this hour has given to all other men their sufficient task in trying to hold up the standard he reared almost alone.
The death of John Quincy Adams, in his place in Congress, turned the people toward Horace Mann for his successor. He obeyed their call. In 1848 he ascended the steps of the Capitol, to wear the mantle of that wonderful old man, who, after his own public career had apparently ended; had contributed more to the lasting fame of Massachusetts and to American liberty than had been done by all his cotemporaries in the public service from his native commonwealth.
In Congress, or on the stump, in the court-room when he be defended Drayton Sayers under a ferocious slave code, Horace Mann may be truly declared to have achieved, by means of his marvellous dialectics, his absolute devotion, his endurances of labor, his ingenious and fertile versatility of intellect, all that could have been expected of a person whose
Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATIONS OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
previous life had been that of uninterrupted political or professional employment. And yet he, for a dozen years, had laid aside the law for which he was educated, and had abandoned political life, for which he had exhibited so much adaptation, and had given his heart and brain and hand to the single task, with undivided effort, of elevating the district school, and of bettering the system by which children were taught the rudiments of common knowledge.
In 1853 he accepted the Presidency of Antioch College, in Ohio, and there he expended the last six years of a most active, devoted and memorable life of duty and high example. On every work he undertook, he stamped himself. Thenceforth it bore the image of his powerful will, his lofty conceptions, his singular independence, his faithful integrity—and these works, the amelioration of man's estate by which he made posterity his debtors, are the true monuments commemorative of such a character and such a life.
Not for his sake, therefore, but for ours, and for our children's, in the name of Massachusetts and in behalf of her people, of the sacred cause of learning and the holy cause of Liberty, I inaugurate this monumental effigy of HORACE MANN. Here shall it stand, mute but eloquent, in sunshine and in storm. On the brow of Beacon Hill, in front of the Capitol of the Commonwealth, side by side, the statues of Webster and of Mann will attract the gaze of coming generations, defying the decay of time, long after these living men and women who assist in this day's ceremonies shall have slept in the dust with their fathers.
On the one hand is the statue of DANIEL WEBSTER, the great Jurist, the great Statesman, the great American. On the other hand is the statue of HORACE MANN, the teacher of Philosophy in its application both to politics and to popular learning—whose constituency was mankind. The rising sun of the morning will turn from the purple East to salute his brow; and when his golden orb ascends to the zenith, shining down from on high in the heavens, he will wrap and warm them both with generous embrace in his lambent love and glory; and when at last the god of day is descending beneath the horizon, his expiring ray will linger upon the brow of Webster.
The closing remarks of the Governor were undoubtedly the inspiration of the moment, for just as he was finishing his address, the light of the rising sun having already enveloped the statue of Mann, was just beginning to play on the head of the statue of Webster. The setting sun would reverse the picture.
John D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of the City of Boston, was next introduced. 

REMARKS OF MR. PHILBRICK.
Mr. Philbrick remarked that he was happy to participate in the exercises of the occasion, in doing honor to the greatest advocate of popular education on the most auspicious morning of the national anniversary. He himself stood as a humble representative of that class for whom Mr. Mann labored, lived and died—those who have in immediate charge the education of the children of the land. Mr. Mann had many titles to our admiration and regard, but the monument was reared mainly because he devoted himself to the cause of education as the inspiration and special mode of his doing good to mankind. To a friend he said that all his air castles in youth had reference to doing some benefit to mankind, and somehow he had the conviction early in life that knowledge was the needed instrumentality for its accomplishment. He saw that the improvement of his own mind and heart, the cultivation of his own character with a view to use his talents for the benefit of mankind, was the true and lawful end of all aspiring. He came naturally to see that the greatest work that could be given to man was to labor to diffuse among men knowledge and virtue. He came to see that the only mode for the preservation and the perpetuation of our free institutions, and the blessings flowing from them, was through the intelligence and morality of the people, to be secured through the public schools. He rose thus step by step to the height of the great argument of universal education as the means of liberty, as the means of national prosperity and national happiness. He went further; that it is the undoubted right of every child born into the world to have an education, and that it is the bounden duty of the State to provide that education for every child within its limits. Mr. Philbrick then spoke of Mr. Mann's labors as Secretary of the Board of Education, and for the encouragement and adequate compensation for competent teachers, and closed by expressing the idea that there was not one in this Common wealth who was not better educated, by reason of the labors of Mr. Mann, than he otherwise would have been, and that there was no one who was not better than he would have been had not this great man lived and labored in this Commonwealth. 
Rev. Thomas Hill, President of Harvard University, was next introduced.

REMARKS OF REV. MR. HILL.
We have dedicated this statue, fellow-citizens, not more to the memory of him of whose bodily presence it is so faithful a reminder, than to those great principles to which, especially during the twelve years in which he was first Secretary of the Board of Education, he dedicated himself with such wonderful zeal, energy and success. So long as it stands here on its firm pedestal, let it perpetually remind the people of this Commonwealth, and their representatives in these halls of legislation, that Massachusetts, by his appointment eight and twenty years ago, last Thursday, pledged herself to lead those States who take a wise interest in the education of their citizens. Nobly did she struggle under his guidance, and with his powerful aid, to redeem that pledge. Let him, as he stands here in ever-enduring bronze, warn and admonish her that nothing but a perpetual struggle will enable her to maintain her place. The genius of the sculptor has filled those motionless lips with his wonted expression of mingled tenderness and severity, of stern self-renunciation and inflexible devotion to his undertaken task; and if Massachusetts listens, she cannot fail to hear in their silent eloquence the words: “Honor not me, but honor the principles for which you gave me the opportunity to labor; remember that it is the right and duty of a State to give to each one of her children that amount and that kind of education which shall best enable him to serve mankind.”
Let us listen to his doctrine, for it is true. What St. Paul says of the Church, holds also of a nation. We are all one body, and members in particular. Each individual member of the body politic serves best his own interests by serving the interests of the whole,-and the nation best serves the interests of the whole by guarding carefully the interests and the rights of each individual. The least honorable members are ofttimes most useful and most worthy of especial care. In this newly regenerate nation, therefore, let there be no North nor South, no East nor West, no Celt nor Anglo-Saxon, Teuton nor African, bond nor free, but American citizenship be all in all-securing to each man equal attention, equal protection, and equal opportunity to gain that amount and that kind of education which will enable him most thoroughly to serve the nation.
But should the American people fail of attaining rapidly this full stature of manhood, let at all events the Common wealth of Massachusetts show an example of united devotion to the highest aims. Let there be no jealousy here between the seaboard and the mountains, between the farmer and the manufacturer; but let all unite in sustaining the honor and the interests of the State, well assured that the interests of all sections and of all classes must in the long run prove identical. Your common schools once stood superior to any on the Continent; but New York and the Northwestern States are more thoroughly awakened, more free from the trammels of routine, more generous in proportion to their means in outlay, and will soon outstrip you unless you renew your State. Your Colleges and your University once stood in a proud preeminence over those of sister States, but other States have now for many years been imitating with great success your previous steps, and will in a few years, unless you hasten to anticipate them, have more richly endowed, more thoroughly organized, more generously comprehensive institutions for the highest education, than you. Let Massachusetts retrieve and increase her ancient honors. Let us never forget, so long as this sacred image recalls the faithful and tireless first Secretary of the Board of Education, that it is the right and the duty of the State to provide for each child that amount and that kind of education which will most surely prepare him for as great usefulness to his race as his relative talents will permit him to attain. Our common schools are yet; susceptible of improvement in their mode of rendering the great mass of the people intelligent and happy co-laborers in the work of so- 
<c02>
ciety. Our State Scholarships, although useful, fall very far short of enabling all our children who desire it to obtain a collegiate education. The Commonwealth must not fail to put to the utmost use all the talent of all her sons, and the higher the talent the more need there is of utilizing it. Those, therefore, who would pursue the highest walks of literature, or science and art, or would make themselves masters of philosophy, and political economy, and jurisprudence, and statesmanship, and thus fit themselves for the highest possible services to the State, should be freely aided by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and not be left dependent on private fortunes, nor forced to seek aid in the Universities of foreign lands. Let the State determine so to improve all her facilities of education as rather to attract the youth of foreign lands hither. Horace Mann in his youth proclaimed the eternal progress of a true State; let not the erection of this statue mark the time when this State ceased to advance, and rested satisfied with her imperfect attainments. Rather let us honor his name by giving ourselves, heartily, to the high ends of humanity and the broad cause of education, with which he was identified and in which he won a name more enduring than bronze, and established himself in the affectionate remembrance of the people more firmly than any work of man's hands can be placed upon its foundations.
The services were concluded with the singing of “America“ by the children, followed by the benediction by Rev. Dr. Stebbins. 

JEFF. DAVIS AS A MORAL CRIMINAL.
George W. Curtis writes in Harper's Magazine for July:
"At the time of our writing, the most conspicuous offender ever capitally indicted in this country sits alone in a spacious casement of Fortress Monroe, with, only a Bible upon his table, and two silent sentinels watching him by day and night. Perhaps as he sits there or paces the floor, he remembers the hapless victims of Andersonville and Belle Isle, or recalls the long horrors of the war which has smeared so many lovely fields with blood. In the terrible quiet of his prison, does he ever ask himself whether it was worth while to dare such a grievous sorrow to his country for such a cause? Does he ever argue with himself that even if the theory of State sovereignty were true, it was not wise to assert it at such cost of misery, merely for perpetuating something which must surpass any conceivable injustice of the nation toward a State? Has he never learned that many things may be lawful which are not expedient, and that nothing but the most prolonged injustice, of which legal redress is hopeless, is a worse oppression than the remedy of civil war? 
Technically he is a political prisoner. As such he will be tried. But he is also arraigned before the conscience and heart of his faithful fellow-citizens as a moral criminal of the worst kind. Even fanatical candor cannot plead that he was ignorant of the systematic horrors of the Georgia prisons-the starving, the freezing, the slow reduction of human beings to idiocy by exposure, by hunger, by contact with filth and disease. It was intended to weaken them into despair and submission, and it had that effect. It was also intended to compel an exchange of sound and efficient men for his service, and there it failed. But the first result was constant. 
Here, for instance, is a note written in pencil from the United States military prison at Nashville by an honest, industrious, sober, patriotic neighbor of the Easy Chair's, who has been a faithful soldier of the war from the beginning. He says he was captured before Petersburg last August, and was sent from Richmond to Salisbury. There he and all his comrades-there were ten thousand, in his estimate, during the period of his imprisonment-were starved and starved and starved. They died and died, or by scores and hundreds took the oath to the rebels, and were placed in their ranks. He and a few others persisted as long as he could. But hunger and weakness and horror gradually did their work, and he succumbed. From August until April he had suffered more than we can imagine, and then he yielded. He was put in the rebel ranks, and arms placed in his hands and those of his companions, about half an hour before Stoneman arrived. He did not fire a shot against his flag-none of them did-and they went directly over to Stoneman; but as coming from the rebel ranks, they were held as prisoners.
This is one case, sad enough, but with alleviations-one case, not the worst, but how tragical! Yet there are thousands and thousands like him who suffered all that he suffered, and then, consumed with loathsome diseases, with broken hearts, with reeling brains, sank into convulsive agonies of death, or laughed out in stark madness, or drivelled slowly on in idiocy. And they were young and brave and noble men who were thus treated. They were guiltess of every crime, and had done nothing but defend their country. At home, far away upon Western prairies, among New England hills, upon the shores of the lakes, along the sea coast, mothers and wives and daughters sickened with the long suspense, the horrible suspicion. Their hair whitened, their eyes grew dim with hopeless watching, and their cheeks thinned with acute fear, and their hearts broke also, and they died amidst their appalled children. So awful a sorrow, so terrible a suffering, both in itself and in what it occasioned, no history records. And it was the crime of this man who now sits alone with his Bible and the silent sentinels in Fortress Monroe. 
It is in vain to plead for him as a political offender. The war was little, compared with the crimes of the war. Over the graves of the dearly beloved, shot dead upon the battle-field, we can hear and see that political differences may come to war. But over the Golgothas of Millen and Andersonville-over the spots where the pens stood in which heroic men were treated as beasts were never treated-we call murder, and crime, and all murders and all crimes are less black than these.
Whatever the verdict of the jury may be upon the charge of treason-whatever the punishment, if the accused be convicted as a traitor-however in case of his execution he may be ranked among political victims, the verdict of every generous heart and of history is sure against this man as a criminal not less than the infamous English Jeffreys. Viewed merely as a political leader, his whole public career is unlighted by a single noble action, and his speeches will be vainly searched for one generous emotion. If his infamy in history will be singular, it will be in every point deserved. The same kind of gloomy odium that settles upon the name of James II., but tenfold deeper, as he was infinitely more criminal, will gather and darken around that of Jefferson Davis.”

AID FROM FRANCE FOR THE FREEDMEN.
We have already announced, says the N. Y. Evening Post, the formation of a society of ladies in Paris, under the lead of Madame Laboulaye, for the purpose of providing clothing for the freedmen in our Southern States. The following is a more complete account of this benevolent enterprise:
" On the 27th of April, a large meeting of ladies was held, and a society formed, with Madame Laboulaye as president, Mesdames Cochin and De Pressensi as vice presidents, and Madame Coiquet as treasurer, with a numerous committee from among the most distinguished ladies of Paris, for the purpose of making clothing for the liberated slaves-ready made clothing being considered preferable to money, as they can obtain its exemption from freight and custom duties. The following circular, from the pen of M. Laboulaye, is extensively circulated by the association:
'At this moment, when all eyes are fixed on America, we appeal to your generosity in behalf of the slaves freed by the war. The victims of the most ancient and most odious of iniquities, having no longer the interested guaranties of servitude, and incapable as yet of using the rights of liberty, at this moment when the day of deliverance is drawing near for them, they have more need than ever of our aid, and this aid, moreover, is only a reparation which is due them. Two millions of men, aged persons, women and children are without bread, without clothing, without shelter. In the midst of a ruinous war, the Americans have made the most generous sacrifices, but the needs are so great that these efforts are insufficient. Does Europe owe nothing, will she do nothing in her turn? We will not believe this. England has already responded to the appeal; France, the old friend of the United States, will not remain a stranger to it. Politics are nowhere in question, but only justice and humanity. EDOUARD LABOULAYE.’”
President Johnson, on Saturday, had an interview with a committee of Virginians who desired to have the twenty-thousand-dollar exception stricken from the amnesty proclamation. The President effectually answered their remonstrances, and assured them that, so far, he had seen no reason for removing the restriction. 
<c03>
The Liberator
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1865.
“BE OF GOOD CHEER.”
On our last page we give an abstract of the speeches made at the Anti-Slavery celebration at Framingham, on the 4th of July. From this it appears that the general tone of the speakers was peculiarly lugubrious for such an occasion, and to make out a desperate case some very extravagant assertions were made. The special object of impeachment and denunciation appeared to be President Johnson. Thus:-“He has shown his predilection in favor of the South”-“The black man has only been taken from the frying-pan into the fire“-“It is darker to-day than a year ago”-“Our only defence is in changing the purpose of Andy Johnson”-“Our danger is greater than Grant’s was before Vicksburg”-“To-day a voice should go from Massachusetts, letting the President know that his friends look upon his present attitude as a surrender to the rebels”-&c.,&c.
All this is well-meant, beyond a doubt; it has an air of deep concern for the cause of the millions who, though emancipated from the galling fetters of chattel slavery, have not yet been invested with the elective franchise; its object is undeniably one of grave importance, and in itself most desirable. Nevertheless, we believe it to be the language of exaggeration, not to say grossly unjust.
While we do not undertake to sanction every act of President Johnson, we shall be slow in coming to the conclusion that he is animated by any other than an earnest purpose to stamp slavery out of existence, and to discharge all the duties of his official station towards all classes in the spirit of incorruptible integrity and a lofty patriotism. What he would like to do, and what he sees he can do, in the matter of reconstruction, are very different questions. He has had vast responsibilities suddenly rolled upon him, and occupies a position full of difficulty and danger. Let him not be hastily condemned, but rather charitably judged, inasmuch as he has the most intricate problems to solve, the most powerful prejudices to confront, the most antagonistical elements to manage, with no precedents to fall back upon, the North widely divided, and the whole southern section of the Union in a state of chaos. He is not a despot, and cannot do as he pleases, but limited by popular opinion and constitutional restraint. It is highly important that he should know what THE PEOPLE will sustain him in doing in this anomalous and most critical state of public affairs; and, therefore, they cannot be too explicit in making known their wishes. His strong democratic abhorrence of the insolent aristocracy of the South; his sufferings and sacrifices in the cause of our common country; his inflexible adherence to the Proclamation of Emancipation of his lamented predecessor; his bold espousal of the rights of the enslaved in Tennessee while Governor of that State; his deep consciousness that upon him are fastened the eyes of the friends of freedom throughout the world, and that if he plays a perfidious part he will be “damned to everlasting fame,” instead of honored to the latest posterity like him whose mantle he wears, and whose office he fills; all these considerations should preclude hasty arraignment and rash condemnation in his case. It is possible for him to err in judgment-in the appointment of this or that person to office-in the exercise of the pardoning power-in the matter of reconstruction itself-without being a knave, or “surrendering to the rebels.” We protest against the disposition, manifest in certain quarters, to assume or insinuate that his sympathies are with the South, and that he cares nothing for the colored population. We believe the charge to be equally false and cruel.
We also protest against the absurd representation, that the signs of the times look dark and portentous; that the abolition of the slave system, unaccompanied by an instant translation from the auction-block to the ballot-box, is a measure of no special value to its victims or to the country; that it is darker to-day than it was a year ago; and so on through the whole dreary catalogue of complaints. It has taken the life-time of a generation to so change the sentiment of the nation as to ensure the emancipation of all who were held in bondage; and the greatness and importance of that change cannot be overestimated. There is no going back, but “onward” in word and deed! The cause which we espoused, almost “solitary and alone,” is now magnificently triumphant. It is not in human or in demon power to turn it back. The same good Providence which has watched over it, the same Divine hand which has guided it, will continue to aid and bless it. Grievances there are to be redressed, rights and immunities to be obtained, prejudices to be removed, outrages to be exposed and denounced; but these are as dust in the balance compared with the shame and degradation, the darkness and heathenism, the barbarity and diabolism of slavery-the selling of human beings like cattle in the market-the plundering of cradles-the sundering of all the sacred relations of life-the substitution of universal pollution for the sanctity of marriage-padlocks, and yokes, and scourges, and paddles, and branding-irons, and thumb-screws, and bloodhounds, and all the other horrible accompaniments of that hell-born system, now decreed its eternal overthrow! Even homeless, penniless freedom, without a ballot, is an incomparably better condition than that of chattel servitude, even if well-fed, and looking “fat and sleek.” Those who have been liberated from their worse than Egyptian house of bondage have not prematurely lifted up thanksgiving and praise to God for their deliverance. Nor have the friends of freedom, on either side of the Atlantic, been fast or foolish in exulting over the downfall of the “sum of all villanies.” Because absolute political equality for those who but yesterday were marketable commodities has not been simultaneously attained with their release, is it to be denied that a grand, and glorious, and far-reaching event has taken place?
"Loud and long 
Lift the old exulting song!
Sing with Miriam by the sea:
He hath oas' the mighty down;
Horse and rider sink and drown;
He hath triumphed gloriously!
Did we dare,
In our agony of prayer,
Ask for more than He has done?
When was ever His right hand,
Over any time or land, 
Stretched as now beneath the sun?“
Let those who will, pour contempt upon all the labors and sacrifices of the past, and underrate all that has been achieved, because much remains that is unequal and oppressive. We shall not stultify ourselves, nor depreciate the Abolition movement, in following their example. At no time have we cherished the delusion that the abolition of slavery, against the wishes and efforts of its supporters, would lift its victims at once to the plane of absolute justice, and remove every barrier of complexional caste. Of course, those who have lost their prey will be more or less vindictive, more or less factious, for a time, and in some instances will seem to exceed their former cruelty. Corrupt and tyrannical natures are not easily subdued. But-slavery abolished it will not be long before spite will be wearied out, and obstinacy overcome, and cruel conduct too infamous to be persisted in. Order comes of chaos, and all desirable things of emancipation. The greater includes the less: the greater has been secured, and the less is sure to follow.
There is, therefore, no ground for discouragement or alarm. There is positive growth and constant progress. It is cause for astonishment and rejoicing that so much is claimed and conceded for the freedmen in regard to complete citizenship, on the part of the loyal portion of the country. The change wrought in a single year is marvellous, and prophetic of the consummation of “equal and exact justice” at no distant day. Why not rejoicingly recognize that change, and work under its inspiration, instead of indulging
<c04>
in unphilosophical croaking and unstatesmanlike criticism?
We are as anxious that the freedman should have the ballot to protect him from unjust class legislation as any one can reasonably be; we denounce his deprivation of it, on account of his complexion, as an act of injustice, which, if prolonged, will surely bring with it trouble and retribution; we regard the question of reconstruction as one of momentous importance; and we watch with eagerness and the closest scrutiny whatever has a bearing upon the freedom, safety and happiness of our colored countrymen. We only counsel against unfounded accusations, unreasonable impeachments, unwarranted exaggerations. With fidelity to principle, let there be a rational view taken of the state of the country, and of the difficulties and perplexities surrounding the government; so that fall justice may be done to all concerned.

THE FANEUIL HALL ADDRESS.
To the People of the United States:-
In pursuance of the custom of the American people to confer freely with one another in times of civil emergency, and the example of our own ancestors to speak to their fellow-citizens from this place, we have been commissioned by the citizens this day assembled in Faneuil Hall to address you upon the state of public affairs.
We claim no peculiar right to be heard, even by reason of the sacredness of the spot from which we speak; but the greatness of the exigency, the critical questions your representatives in Congress will soon be required to meet, and the singular unanimity which appears among the patriotic people in this portion of our land, lead us to hope for your attention and consideration.
To remove obstructions which we know may be artfully thrown in the way, we wish to say to you in advance,-as a matter of honor between citizens,-that this meeting and this address have not been prompted by any organization, or any purpose of party or person politics. They are the spontaneous expression of the convictions of men in earnest, who have differed much in times past, and may be separated again in their political action, but who are forced to a common opinion on the present exigency of affairs. 
That we may wisely consider our rights and duties, understand whom and what we have to deal with, and the probabilities of the future, we must ask you to review with us the ground, however familiar it may seem to be.
For thirty years and more, Southern society has been moving steadily in an opposite direction from our own, until its entire system, and-if we call it so-its civilization, has become hostile to, and, at last, inconsistent with our own. In their progress the Southern people had reached a position where it may be said to have become their settled doctrine, social and political, that the people of color are-not by accident and temporarily, but by nature and forever-unfit for any other condition than that of absolute slaves. On several millions of such persons,-not all negroes, but in whom is much white blood, with often but a quarter or an eighth of the African,-their social fabric rested. When not aggressive, their system was intrenched behind State institutions, where no national authority could reach it. From this condition of things there followed consequences of the utmost social and political importance to the government and people of the Republic. Slavery, with its effects on what would otherwise have been the laboring class of the whites, resulted in a system which is substantially oligarchal. It gave to the masters the advantage of oligarchy, and trained them personally in its habits, sentiments and passions. Slavery and oligarchy do not rest on political economy, but they have their sources in the pride and passions of men. They are, therefore, if circumstances at all favor them, an ever-present danger. The Southern people came to consider themselves as moulded, by their training and position, into a master race, not only over their slaves, but in their relations with their fellow-citizens of the free States, whose political equality and free labor they had come to despise. To support their system, in national politics, they invented and used, as a most effectual weapon, the dogma of State Supremacy, which they disguised under the name of State Rights. It may, therefore, be fairly said that three ideas had complete possession of Southern society,-Slavery, Aristocracy and State Supremacy. Upon these they carried on their political warfare, until 1860. On these they founded their empire in 1860. On these, and for these, they have waged against the Republic, for four years, a war of stupendous proportions. 
That we may understand the character of this antagonistic force, with which we have now to deal politically, we ask you to remember what they accomplished. They made no insurrection of professed citizens for a redress of grievances. They made no revolution or civil war within an admitted sovereignty. They set up a distinct and independent sovereignty, within the territory of the Republic. This extended over eleven States, and we hardly saved our capital; while in the States of Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri, the most the nation obtained, at first, was a declaration of sovereign neutrality. Looking at the fact, and not at right or law, we must remember that the rebellion drove out from its usurped borders every representative and obliterated every sign of Federal authority, possessed every foot of ground, and established and put in operation a central government, completed in all its parts, legislative, executive and judicial. It is true, the rebels preserved the form of a republic, but they might have made their government a monarchy. They did as they chose. It happened that they preserved their State lines, and made few changes in their State constitutions; but they might have obliterated both, and resolved themselves into a consolidated empire. They did as they saw fit. They then demanded recognition of us, and of the rest of the world, raised armies and a navy, and forced the issue of war. We had only to decline the issue of war, and the rebel government would have stood forth, a completed, recognized empire.
In the course of a war of four years for the restoration of the Republic, we must not forget that not one place surrendered from political considerations. There were individual deserters, but not a regiment laid down its arms from motives of returning loyalty. They fought to the last,-as bitterly at last as ever,-and were surrendered by their commanders only when there was no other resource. It was by force that their government was broken down. It is by force that the territory they held is now in our military occupation. They admit themselves overpowered by superior numbers and material resources, but we are not aware that the admission extends any further. Military organizations against the Republic are not practicable; but they are seeking to open and with the least possible delay, the avenues to their old fields of political contest and ascendancy. They will endeavor to save all they can of the doctrine of State Supremacy for future use. In the permission for the return of the Rebel Legislature to Richmond, and in the Sherman-Johnston pacification, our government barely escaped a serious, if not a fatal political defeat, at the hands of a vanquished enemy. The purpose of the South now is to resume the exercise of State functions with the utmost possible speed, and with the least possible change in their home systems. “To secure that, they will do and submit to whatever is necessary. It must constantly be borne in mind that when once a State is admitted to its place, the power of the nation over all subjects of State cognizance is gone. If the dogma of State Supremacy is not destroyed, for practice as well as in theory, the war will have been in vain. It has not only been the favorite weapon of slavery, but has been eagerly caught up by the enemies of our institutions in Europe,-the tenet that the United States is not a nation, a government, a sovereignty,-that the citizens owe to it no direct allegiance,-that they cannot commit against it the crime of treason, if they carry with them into their
<c05>
treason the forms of State authority. The right of this republic to be a sovereign, among the sovereignties of the earth, must be put beyond future dispute, abroad, as well as at home. We have paid the fearful price, and we must not be defrauded of the results.
Let us now, fellow-citizens, look at the dangers which attend an immediate restoration of the rebel States to the exercise of full State authority. Slavery is the law of every rebel State. In some of these States free persons of color are not permitted to reside; in none of them have they the right to testify in court, or to be educated; in few of them to hold land, and in all of them they are totally disfranchised. But, far beyond the letter of the law, the spirit of the people and the habits of generations are such as to insure the permanence of that state of things in substance. If slavery should be abolished in form, their spirit and habits, their pride and passions, will lead them to uphold their oligarchal system, built upon a debased colored population, and intrenched behind State institutions, over which the nation cannot pass in peace. Their personal relation with the colored people as masters over slaves being changed in law, they will look upon them in a new light, as a class to be feared, and as the cause of their defeat and humiliation. They will not tax themselves to give to the freed-men an education. They will not permit the continuance within, their States of philanthropic agencies for colored people, from the free States. They will not encourage Northern immigration, with systems of small freeholds and free labor; nor will capital and labor go there from the free States under present auspices. Returning to their old arts of politics, which they are fond of, and in which long practice has made them expert, they will seek to repudiate a debt incurred for the suppression of their revolt; nor can we shut our eyes to the danger of political combinations, to be ruled by this oligarchy and to do its work. It is useless to suggest or conjecture methods and means; the spirit and motive will take such forms as occasions may require.
We trust it cannot be necessary to pause here, and refute a political fallacy, which the logic of events has already exposed. It has been contended that, forcible resistance having ceased, the rebel States are, by that fact, again in their orbits, and in the rightful possession and exercise of all their functions as States, in local and national affairs, just as if no war had taken place,-that the nation, whether by Congress or the Executive has no option to exercise, no powers or rights to enforce, no conditions that it can make. We trust that the mere statement of this proposition, in the light of the circumstances in which we stand, is a sufficient refutation. We are holding the rebel country in military occupation, and the nation is asserting a right, before it yields that occupation, to see the public safety secured, and the public faith preserved. The only question can be as to the mode of obtaining this result. We trust all loyal people of the land will have no hesitation in standing by the President, with clear convictions, as well as strong purpose, on this issue. By necessity, the Republic must hold and exercise some control over those regions and people until the States are restored to their full functions as States, in national as well as in State affairs. This authority is to be exercised by the President or by Congress, or both, according to the nature of each case. Though resulting, necessarily, from the fact of the war, those powers are not necessarily to be exercised by military persons or in military forms. This temporary, provisional authority, although supreme for the time, may be exercised, much of it, by civil officers, using the methods of civil power, and admitting the employment of judicial and executive functions, with the arts and business and social intercourse of life. This we understand to be, in substance, the position which the government now occupies, and we believe the people recognize it to be of necessity and of right.
Let us now, fellow-citizens, turn our attention to our rights and duties. Having succeeded in this war, and holding the rebel States in our military occupation, it is our right and duty to secure whatever the public safety and the public faith require.
First. The principle must be put beyond all question, that the Republic has a direct claim upon the allegiance of every citizen, from which no State can absolve him, and to his obedience to the laws of the Republic, “anything in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.” 
Second. The public faith is pledged to every person of color in the rebel States, to secure to them and their posterity forever a complete and veritable freedom. Having promised them this freedom, received their aid on the faith of this promise, and, by a successful war and actual military occupation of the country, having obtained the power to secure the result, we are dishonored if we fail to make it good to them.
Third. The system of slavery must be abolished and prohibited by paramount and irreversible law. Throughout the rebel States, there must be, in the words of Webster, “impressed upon the soil itself an inability to bear up any but free men.”
Fourth. The systems of the States must be truly “republican.”
Unless these points are secured, the public faith will be broken, and there will be no safety for the public peace or the preservation of our institutions. 
It must be remembered that, under the Constitution, most of these subjects are entirely matters of State jurisdiction. Once withdraw the powers of war, and admit a State to its full functions, and the authority of the nation over these subjects is gone. It is a State function to determine who shall hold land, who shall testify in State courts, who shall be educated, and how, who shall labor, and how, and under what contracts and obligations, and how enforced, and who shall vote in national as well as in State elections. We have already said, that all these points now stand in the Constitutions and laws of the rebel States decided against the freedmen. Action is necessary to put them right. So great a change is, no doubt, fundamental, and goes to the bottom of their social and political system. If it is not made now, before civil society becomes settled, before the States are restored to the exercise of their powers, it will never be made, in all human probability, by peaceful means.
The question now occurs, how are these results to be secured, before those States are permitted to resume their functions? We agree that these results ought to be secured in conformity with what may be called the American System,-that upon which and for which our Constitution was made. This is a system of separate States, each with separate functions, constituted by the people of each, and self-governing within its sphere, with a central State constituted by the people of all, supreme within its sphere, and the final judge of its sphere and functions. The President recognizes the importance of proceeding in accordance with this system. He aims at a restoration of the States, by the people of the States, without resort to the exercise of sovereign legislative jurisdiction over them by the general government. In this we offer to him our sympathy, as we ask for him an intelligent support. But, inasmuch as once restored, the State will be beyond our reach, the utmost care must be taken to avoid a hasty and unsatisfactory restoration. We acknowledge that there may be dangers in protracted and extensive military occupation. But we believe the people are willing to incur their share of these perils. We believe the people feel that the greatest hazard is in premature restoration fraught with future danger. Any restoration would be dangerous which did not secure, beyond all reasonable peril, the abolition of slavery, actual freedom, just rights to the free, and, within each State, “a republican form of government.”
The President and his Cabinet, we have every reason to believe, have these results in view. We cannot doubt that Congress will refuse, to receive any State upon any other terms. If there are any members of Congress whose fidelity on these points is doubtful, we implore you to exercise over them all the just authority and influence of constituents.
<c06>
We advance no extreme or refined theory as to what may be included within the term “a republican form of government.” In the exercise of the extraordinary prerogative of the General Government to determine whether a State Constitution is “republican,” there must be practical wisdom, and no refined theories. If the Constitutions with which the rebel States now come are not “republican,” in such a reasonable and practical sense as nations act upon-if they are so far unrepublican as to endanger public peace and the stability of our institutions-then we may treat them as not “republican” in the American sense of the term.
What, then, is the character of their present Constitutions, assuming that slavery is prohibited? Here presents itself no question of mere principle or theory but facts of an overruling and decisive character. From one third to one half of their free population are absolutely and forever not only disfranchised, but deprived of all the usual rights of citizens in a republic. Not only so, but this disfranchisement is perpetual, hereditary and insurn ountable. It is more deeply seated than Oriental caste. It clings to each man and his posterity forever, if there be a traceable thread of African descent. No achievements in war or peace, no acquisitions of property, no education, no mental power or culture, no merits, can overcome it. To make the case worse, these people are not only disfranchised, but the temper, spirit and habits of the ruling class, the only class partaking of civil authority, will keep them not only disfranchised, but uneducated, without land, without the right to testify, and without the means of protecting their formal freedom. The result has been and must ever be, that the system is essentially and practically oligarchal, in such a sense as actually and seriously to endanger the public peace and the success of our republican institutions.
Attempts are made to embarrass the subject by referring to several of the free States, whose constitutions restrict free blacks in the exercise of some of the usual rights of citizens. But these are not practical questions before the country. The general government has no present cognizance of those questions in those States. Besides, as we have said, the exercise of this extraordinary authority must be upon practical and reasonable grounds, and not on mere theory. The partial disfranchisement of people of color in those States we regard as one of the subtle effects of the Slave Power in our politics, which we hope to see pass away with its cause. The number of persons whom it bears upon is so small, the effect upon them so slight, and such the state of society, and the habits and feelings of the people, that the substantial character of those States as “republican” is not sensibly affected. Departures from principle, however small, must always be regretted; but in the vast and critical affairs of nations, slight aberrations from exact principles are constantly occurring, and are constantly submitted to and allowed for, in fundamental institutions, as well as in occasional practice. The case of the rebel States is vastly and absolutely different. It presents a question of false principle organized and brought into action, with vast dimensions, having already created one war, and all but destroyed the Republic, and ever threatening danger thereafter. We can hardly think it in good faith that the effort is made to deter the nation from confronting this vast peril, over which it has present and necessary jurisdiction, by invoking these slight cases found remaining in loyal States, over which the nation has no present cognizance, and from which it has nothing to fear.
We do not ask that the nation shall insist on an unconditional, universal suffrage. We admit that States determine for themselves the principles upon which they will act, in the restrictions and conditions they place upon suffrage. All the States make restrictions of age, sex, and residence, and often annex other conditions operating in substance equally upon all, and reasonably attainable by all. Those matters lie within the region of advice from neighbors, and not of national authority. We speak only to the point where the national authority comes in. We cannot require the rebel States, if we treat them as States, to adopt a system, for the sole reason that we think it right. Of that, each State, acting as a State, must be the judge. But in the situation in which the rebel States now are, the nation can insist upon what is necessary to public safety and peace. And we declare it to be our belief that if the nation admits a rebel State to its full functions with a constitution which does not secure to the freedmen the right of suffrage in such manner as to be impartial, and not based in principle upon color, and as to be reasonably attainable by intelligence and character, and which does not place in their hands a substantial power to defend their rights as citizens at the ballot box, with the right to be educated, to acquire homesteads, and to testify in courts, the nation will be recreant to its duty to itself and to them, and will incur and deserve to incur danger and reproach proportioned to the magnitude of its responsibility.
It should not be forgotten that, slavery being abolished, and therewith the three-fifths rule of the Constitution, nearly two millions will be added to the Representative population of the Slave States in the apportionment for members of Congress and of votes in Presidential elections, and that this increase of political power to the rebel States must be at the expense of the free States. If the freedmen remain, as they now are, disfranchised, this increased power will be wielded by a class of voters smaller in proportion than before. This furnishes an additional temptation to that class to retain it in their hands; and we shall be compelled to meet, as heretofore, the old spirit, not improved by its recent experience, and largely increased in its political power.
As we speak from a free State, it may be suggested that we are not so good judges of what should be done for the colored people of the South as those who have been brought up among them. It does not follow that those who have been brought up under an abuse are the best judges whether it shall be continued, or of what shall be substituted in its place. The people of the North have seen the colored races acting as freemen under free institutions, which the people of the South have not. They who have known the man of color only as a slave before his master, or sometimes as a disfranchised free man under a slave system embracing his race, are not the only nor necessarily the best qualified class to give an opinion as to what he may do or what should be done for him as a free man, under free systems. History teaches us that national emancipations do not emanate from the masters. And wherever emancipation has seemed to disappoint expectations, the difficulties are traceable, in large measures, to persistent and multiform counteractions by the late master-class.
Appeals may be made to taste or pride, on the subject of the social equality of the people of color. We must not permit our opinions to be warped by such considerations. The present question is strictly one of political justice and safety, and not of social equality. When the free man of color, educated in the common schools, deposits a vote which he can write himself, gives a deposition which he can read and sign, and pays a tax on the homestead he has bought, the law forces no comparisons between his intellectual, moral, physical or social condition, and that of the white citizen, of whatever race or nation, who lives, votes or testifies by his side.
But the nation has a deep interest in the freedmen, by themselves considered. The Republic must choose to-day between two results. The millions of people of color in the South, no small part of them carrying the best white blood in their veins, must be either an educated, industrious, land holding, arms bearing, taxpaying, voting, self-protecting population; or an untaught, indolent, objectless, disfranchised, helpless and debased population,-the substratum of a proud, restless, unrepublican, political and social aristocracy. The President has undertaken, in certain of the rebel States, an experiment for speedy restoration. Recognizing the general policy and duty of restoration as soon as practicable, the experiment commands our earnest wishes for its success. By its success we mean-not the return of the States to their position;
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
that they are only too ready to do; but their return with constitutions in which the public safety and public faith shall be secured. We cannot conceal our apprehensions that the experiment will fail. But let not the Republic fail! The more recent signs are that the spirit which caused the war is preparing to fight over politically the ground it has lost in battle. This ought not to surprise us. Let no haste to restore a State, no fear of rebel dissatisfaction, lead the Republic to compromise its safety or its honor!
During the progress towards restoration, the nation holds the States in military occupation, by powers resulting necessarily from successful war. This hold upon them is to be continued until this or some other experiment does succeed. We need not be precipitate. The present authority, although resulting from war, may, as we have said, be largely exercised by civil methods and civil functionaries, and be accompanied with the enjoyment of many civil rights and local municipal institutions, executive and judicial. If the present experiment fails, we may try the experiment of building by the people from the foundation, by means of municipal institutions of towns and counties, with the aid of education, commerce and immigration, a new spirit being infused and the people becoming accommodated to their new relations, and so advance gradually to complete restoration.
This is but one suggestion. Various methods are open to us. Only let it be understood, that there is no point at which the rebels can defy, politically, any more than they could in war, the authority of the Republic. The end the nation has in view is the same as that for which the war was accepted and prosecuted,-the restoration of the States to their legitimate relations with the Republic. The condition of things calls for no limitations of time or methods. By whatever course of reasoning it may be reached, upon whatever doctrine of public law it may rest, however long may be the interval of waiting, and whatever may be the process resorted to, the friends and enemies of the Republic should alike understand, that it has the powers and will use the means to ensure a final restoration of the States, with constitutions which are republican, and with provisions that shall secure the public safety and the public faith.
Boston, June 21, 1865.
The report is signed by the officers of the meeting at Faneuil Hall, and by the following gentlemen, who were appointed a Committee to prepare the Address: Richard H. Dana, Jr., Theophilus Parsons, Charles G. Loring, John G. Whittier, Jacob M. Manning, Samuel G. Howe, George L. Stearns, William Endicott., Jr. The Address itself will arrest general attention for the very able and lucid manner in which it discusses the immensely important question of RECONSTRUCTION, in its bearings upon the integrity, unity and peace of the country. Every effort should be made to give it a wide circulation.]

THE NEW VILLAGE OF VINELAND. 
Celebration of the New Birth of the Nation to Freedom-Vineland: its Capabilities and its Prospects.
VINELAND, (N. J.,) July 4, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND-I am just in from the celebration of the New Birth of the Republic, held in the grove in the Park; a ground of forty acres set apart by CHARLES LANDIS, the founder of this beautiful village, as a Park for public accommodation. It was, indeed, a great occasion, and thousands participated in it. A large platform was erected, covered with oak boughs and wreaths, and seats to accommodate several thousands. Over the platform were the words, in large painted letters, ”We celebrate the New Birth of the Republic-Abraham Lincoln." All the services were based on that text-the prayer, the reading of the Declaration, the oration, and the several speeches, were permeated by that one sentiment. The abolition and prohibition of slavery, the removal of its effects, the restoration of the negro to the rights of a man and a citizen; equality before God and the law in all natural and civil rights; the crime against the ballot; the cause of the war; the duty to forestall future trouble by doing justice to all, without regard to color or to sex; the results of the Declaration of Independence to the despotisms of the world, and to the cause of Liberty over all the earth; the opportunity now offered to the Republic to make the self evident truths of the Declaration an actuality; the certain downfall of the Republic, and its righteous doom, if it neglects to improve it; such were the topics touched upon by the prayer, the songs, and the speeches. Perfect freedom was exercised by all speakers on these matters. The relations of the Republic to freedom, free labor, and free institutions, and to the overthrow of the aristocracies and monarchies of the world, and the elevation and education and happiness of the laborers of all colors, climes and conditions! These topics, right here, in the hitherto darkest portions of New Jersey, were freely and ably considered by the four or five thousands of Vineland, founded by Charles Landis, and destined to be one of the most truly beautiful and desirable towns in the United States. It was good to be on that platform, in that Park, and to mingle my sympathies and raise my voice with the thousand Vine-landers and others to celebrate the nation's New Birth of Freedom. For twenty-five years have I celebrated the nation's first birth into theoretical freedom in Framingham or Abington, by those whose lives have been laid on the altar of liberty, and their country's redemption from slavery. As you have always been a main-spring in those celebrations, you know well what freedom of speech has been used on that old Abolition platform. Never have I heard more perfect freedom used there than has been used here to-day, in discussing all things relating to the nation's past, present and future, so far as liberty, fraternity and equality, and the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of man, were concerned. Being introduced to the multitude as an old Garrisonian Abolitionist, I said my say, and used the perfect freedom with which such an introduction and such a title gave me the right to use, and which led the audience to expect; and nothing could be said about liberty and slavery, the equal rights of all without regard to color, the future of the Republic, and how to guard against future civil convulsions, too radical for the thousands present. More and more am I convinced that the people, of all classes, in the North, are settling down into the conviction, that as the war into which the friends of freedom were driven to entrust the negro with the bullet, to save the nation, is ended; so now the ballot must be put into the same hand, in order to save it from sure and swift destruction in the war of ballots now begun. Defeated in the war of bullets, the tyrants of this and of other lands will spare no pains, in the war of ballots already begun, to blot out this Republic, and place it beneath the despot's heel.
I am certain that, in this new, bloodless, but far more perilous war of ballots-perilous, I mean, to liberty and the Republic-the issue of the conflict and the nation's destiny rest on the answer to the question-WHO SHALL USE THE BALLOT? Shall traitors, homemade or imported, be allowed to wield it, while the loyal and true are debarred from its use because of their color or their sex? Intelligence, virtue, integrity and loyalty, whether they appear in black or white, or in male or female form, must alone be entrusted with the ballot, or the traitors and tyrants at home, borrowing the garb of that angel of light, Democracy, to serve the devil in, and assisted by the bigots and tyrants of Europe, will, in the end, succeed in blotting the United States from the map of the world, as the asylum of the oppressed; which, by reason of its New Birth, it now bids fair to become. God save the American Republic in the great war of ballots which is now being inaugurated! As the ballot is a conventional right, the people have a right to say who shall use it. They must decide this question wisely and speedily, or the nation's doom is sealed.. Refuse the ballot, the only symbol of sovereignty in the nation, to the sober, intelligent, true and loyal, for any cause, and give it to traitors, foreign or domestic, who, in
<c02>
their hatred of freedom and love of slavery, and in their zeal for party, and their drunken madness, will use it for party and tyranny, and the Republic dies. What the bullet could not do, the ballot will; i.e., strangle to death the Republic, so lately born to practical freedom, and a recognition of the equal rights of man. It is good to see the universal freedom felt in the discussion of this subject, and the disposition to make one more effort to make the grand ideal of the Declaration a living reality.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. July 6. Vineland, a town of some 5000 people, thirty miles south of Philadelphia, on the West Jersey railroad, that runs to Cape May. Founded by Charles Landis, who took up 30,000 acres of land in a body here. He laid out a village one mile square, about the centre of the township. In the centre of the village is the railroad station. This he did four years ago. Before making any sales, he laid his plan for a village, and indeed for the township. The railway runs through the centre, north and south, and in a straight line. Each side of the railway is a broad street, given and made by Landis, making a very broad, open thoroughfare through the centre, north and south, called the Boulevards. Then there are two broad avenues, called East and West Avenues, running through the village and township, each 100 feet wide, and equi-distant from the railway or Boulevards, half a mile running parallel with the railway. Through the centre of the village and township, east and west, is a broad avenue of 100 feet, called Landis Avenue; and equi-distant from it half a mile two other avenues, of the same width, running parallel to it; making six broad avenues, including the Boulevards or railway avenue, which, including the streets each side, must be over two hundred feet wide—running three east and west, and three north and south.
In the village or Mill Square, each acre is divided into six equal lots. Whoever buys a lot in the village must set his house twenty feet back from the road; must lay out one thousand dollars of improvement within a specified time, or forfeit fifty dollars; must set out shade trees by the road side in places designated by a public surveyor, employed by Landis; must make a sidewalk, and seed the road not used for a track. These are included in the terms of sale. Out of the village, the house must be set seventy-five feet back from the road; and shade trees planted and other public improvements as in the village. No chance is offered for speculators; but all facilities for actual and thriving settlers. The climate is mild and the air balmy—being some twenty miles from the ocean. The water is pure and abundant, and easily obtained. The soil is adapted to peaches, pears, grapes, and all kinds of berries and sweet potatoes and rye; and all within two hours' ride of Philadelphia market. I have been in this region two weeks. I have ”lived, moved, and had my being" in whortleberries and blackberries, and green peas, green beans, and new potatoes; straw berries being past before I came.
Progression is the leading idea in the social and religious character of the place. The Friends of Progress are building a hall of fifty by seventy-five for all public purposes, to be dedicated to free thought and speech. Landis gives three village lots to build it; also, he has given the same to the several churches built here. Also forty acres, just outside the village, for a public park. Here, as in all places, there are but two classes: i.e. the progressive party and the stationary party. The stationary party calls out—”stand still;" the party of progress says to all—”forward march." The former is holding back, and trying to back the wheels and put on the brakes to the car of progress, and pointing the world to the dead past. The latter party says—put on the steam, ease the brakes, and rush on to the final station; with the sublime watchword,” Nearer to man, nearer to God!"
Dear friend; I have visited many, very many villages and towns in this and in other lands. I have never seen one so perfectly and so commodiously designed as this. I have not seen the designer, Charles Landis, but he has laid out a model town; and if the settlers have the good sense and enterprise to carry out his plan and make it an actuality, it will be one of the most beautiful, and thriving, and healthful, and commodious villages in this nation. Five years hence, as prospects are now, will see this village a gem among villages, of which its projector and the settlers will be proud. I have seen nothing to surpass it in its design. It is now but about three years old, and already over four thousand settlers are here, and some two hundred and fifty dwellings going up the coming year. Fanny D. Gage has a fine location and a pretty house here. Schools houses are going up; and Dr. George Haskell, of Illinois, and others have purchased one hundred acres, within a mile of the station, on which to build an industrial college for the people; males and females to have equal advantages. No alcoholic liquors to be sold here, except by consent of two-thirds of the inhabitants as determined by ballot. And sure I am if the wives and mothers are allowed to vote, as I think they are, in this matter, the rumseller will never ply his murderous trade here.
Dear Garrison, you! must visit and lecture in this place. Your words and counsels would have weight here. Many are here who have long known of you, and who long to see and hear you. You might plant that seed here whose fruits would be eternal life to many now here, and who are to be here in the future. This is no place for idlers and loafers, who are willing to live by the sweat of another's brow. There ought to be no place for them in the universe; but they had better keep away from Vineland; for sure I am they will find little sympathy here. Come here any time from June 1st to Nov. 1st, and you will be sure of berries, fruits, and sweet potatoes, each in turn, to your heart's content—with a warm heart-welcome to boot. Put down Vineland as a place which you must visit before you enter within the veil; then, after that, you will be sure to come again.
H. C. W.
"BOSTON DIRECTORY FOR THE YEAR COMMENCING JULY 1ST, 1865. Adams, Sampson, & Co., Directory office, 47 Congress St., corner of Water St." Octavo, pp. 560. Price, $3,00.
This year's number of the Boston Directory, making the 61st volume of that work, and embracing the City Record, a General Directory of the Citizens, and a Business Directory, has appeared with its usual punctuality, its usual neatness and compactness of form, and its usual thoroughness and accuracy of matter. And this is saying a great deal.
In preparing the names for this edition, more than thirteen thousand have been expunged from the last year's list, and nearly nineteen thousand have been added, showing an increase of 5,620, and making the whole number as it now stands 61,091.
Considering the present price of paper and printing, it is wonderful that such a book can be afforded for three dollars. Every business man needs it. Every family needs it.

CONFESSION OF THE ASSASSIN ATZEROTT.
DETAILS OF THE ASSASSINATION PLOT.
BALTIMORE, July 9. The American has received a special report of the confession of Atzerott, which was prepared by one who has known him since his arrest. The details of the plot to abduct and murder the President, which are set forth below, were given the author by Atzerott a short time before his death.
George Andrew Atzerott was born in the Kingdom of Prussia in 1835, and came to this country with his parents in 1844. He arrived at Baltimore, in which place he resided with his family for about one year, when with his parents be moved to Westmoreland county, Virginia. His father farmed and carried on his business, that of a blacksmith, at the Court House. Atzerott was placed at the business of coach making. He remained at the Court House until 1856, when he went to Washington, and worked for different employers as a coach painter. In 1857 he joined his brother in the coach-making business at Port Tobacco; This continued for four years; when the firm-was dissolved. After this he carried on painting in Port Tobacco until last fall, when he went with, John H. Surratt and a
<c03>
man named Harline. Surratt induced him to join in the conspiracy for abducting the President. Atzerott's knowledge of the men and the country in the vicinity of Port Tobacco, and, in fact of all the counties bordering on the Potomac, gave to the conspirators a valuable assistant. He was well acquainted with Harrold, whom he was not long in finding out, and who was also engaged in the conspiracy.
Surratt went several times to Port Tobacco, and often sent to Atzerott to come to Washington, where he was known to many, and looked upon as a very weakminded man. In fact, he was regarded as a very harmless and silly fellow. Surratt introduced Atzerott to Booth, who feasted him, and furnished him with horses, the horses being held in the name of Surratt, who appeared to be the principal in the absence of Booth.
The first meeting of all the conspirators actually engaged was at a saloon on Pennsylvania avenue, called Geteer's. At this meeting O'Laughlin, Arnold, Booth, Surratt, Harrold and Atzerott were present. The first attempt to abduct the President was to be on the 7th street road. This was to be about the middle of March, when they expected the President to visit a camp. O'Laughlin, Arnold, Payne, Surratt, Booth and Atzerott were present. Harrold left with the buggy with the carbines for” T. B." The plan was to seize the coach of the President, Surratt to jump on the box, as he was considered the best driver, and make for” T. B." by way of Long Oldfield's to the Potomac river, in the vicinity of Nargomey creek, where they had a boat waiting with men to carry over the party. The boat was capable of carrying fifteen men. It had been bought by Booth for the purpose from two men named Branner and Smoot. This plan failed, the President not coming as they desired. Harrold went next morning to Washington.
All things remained quiet for some time after this. Booth went North, Arnold and O'Laughlin to Baltimore. Payne, or Wood, left also for New York. A man named Howell was about this time arrested, which alarmed Surratt, and he left with Mrs. Slatter for the North. This was about the 1st of April.
The next plan was to visit the theatre on the night the President was expected to be there. It was arranged that Surratt and Booth were to go to the box. Arnold, O'Laughlin and Payne were to act some important part in getting him out. Harrold and Atzerott were to have charge of the horses, and an actor was to be secured to put out the gas. Booth represented that the best assistant he had was an actor. In this plan buggies and horses were to be used. A rope, which was to be prepared and be at Keyd's, was to be stretched across the road to impede the cavalry in the pursuit. The route at this time was to be the same as before, except that they were to cross the eastern branch bridge. This whole affair failed, and Booth said”it is all up," and spoke of going to Richmond and opening a theatre, and promised Atzerott employment in some capacity. Atzerott was waiting for Booth to arrange his going to Richmond when the affair was renewed again. He had taken a room at the Kirkwood house. Harrold called on him, and left his knife, pistols and coat in the room, and told him Booth wished to see him at the Herndon House, to which place he repaired in company with Harrold.
This was in the evening. He there met Booth and Payne. Booth told Atzerott,”You must kill Johnson." Atzerott demurred, when Booth replied, ”Harrold has more courage, he will do it. Go, get your horses; what will become of you anyhow?" Atzerolt and Harrold went down Ninth street together. Alzerott said to Harrold,”We must not disturb Mr. Johnson." Harrold laughed, and wanted the key of the room. It was refused by Atzerott, who expressed himself as fearful that harm would be done Mr. Johnson.
Harrold left to go to see Booth, and Atzerott went to Oyster Bay. Harrold came after him, and said Booth wanted to see him. Atzerott did not return to the Kirkwood House that night. Booth told Atzerott that Surratt was in the city.
Atzerott did not see Booth after leaving him at the Herndon House, and he roamed about the streets nearly all night. He first heard of the murder about 10 1-2 o'clock while passing up the Avenue. The cavalry was rushing by at the time in pursuit. He threw away his knife that night, and parted with his pistol next morning to a friend in Georgetown.
Atzerott had nothing to say at any of the former meetings. He knew nothing about the rope found with Spangler, and believed Spangler so far as he knew. Booth when applied to for money would reply that he had money in New York, and would get some.
At one time in the spring, or late in the winter, Mrs. Slater, Mrs. Surratt, John Surratt and Major Barrow, formerly of the rebel army, left Washington together. They got horses from Howard's stable. Mrs. Surratt stopped at Surrattsville. The others went to the Potomac. Major Barrow returned. Atzerott did not think Barrow had anything to do with the conspiracy.
One of Booth's plans to obtain an entrance to the Secretary of State's house was an invention which, if successful, would have involved others in his foul act. He made the acquaintance of a woman of strong Southern feelings, living not far from the Secretary of State's house. She was to make the acquaintance of a servant who was to be introduced to Booth, and by this means he would learn something of the location of the rooms, etc. The scheme failed.
Booth was well acquainted with Mudd, and had letters of introduction to him. Booth told Atzerott, about two weeks before the murder, that he had sent provisions and liquor to Dr. Mudd's for the supply of the party on their way to Richmond with the President.
Michael O'Langhlin has made no regular confession as far as is publicly known, but he has confessed to the original conspiracy. He denied any knowledge of the murder of the President or the attempt on Mr. Seward's life, but there is no doubt in the minds of those who know all the circumstances that he did visit Secretary Stanton's house, as charged in the testimony before the Commission.

SUMMARY JUSTICE.
Since our last publication, summary execution has been visited upon four of the Presidential assassins, with startling and impressive suddenness. Payne, Atzerodt, Harold and Mrs. Surratt paid on the scaffold the dread penalty of their crimes last Friday. Dr. Mudd, Arnold and O'Laughlin have been sentenced to imprisonment for life, and Spangler to six years' imprisonment at hard labor in the penitentiary at Albany.
Thus speedily justice does her work. The chief malefactor in the actual commission of the crime is overtaken and perishes before his victim is in his grave; four others die upon the gallows in precisely twelve weeks from the perpetration of the deadly deed; and four others, convicted of a connection with the conspiracy, enter the convict's cell, one for a term of years, and the others for life.
The sentences were duly communicated to the prisoners, and received by them according to their several temperaments and characters—by Payne, with great firmness and self-command; Atzerodt, with abject fear and trembling despair; Harold, with simpering insensibility, as though he did not appreciate his position; and Mrs. Surratt, with overwhelming surprise and concern, amounting to complete prostration.
Great efforts were made by the friends of Harold, and particularly of Mrs. Surratt, to obtain a reprieve, or mitigation of sentence, but the President remained firm to his convictions of duty. A writ of habeas corpus was served upon Gen. Hancock, demanding of him to produce the body of Mrs. Surratt before Judge Wiley; but he presented himself in the Court, accompanied by Attorney Gen. Speed, and read a return, in which Gen. Hancock said the body of Mrs. Surratt was in his possession under and by virtue of an order of President Johnson, for the purpose expressed, &c., which order is as follows:
EXECUTIVE OFFICE, July 7, 1865. 
To Major Gen. W. S. Hancock, Commanding, &c.:
I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, do hereby declare that the writ of habeas corpus has been heretofore suspended in such cases as this, and I do hereby specially suspend this writ, and direct that you proceed to execute the order heretofore given upon the judgment of the Military Commission, and you will give this order in return to this writ.
(Signed) ANDREW JOHNSON, President.
The Court remarked that no further steps could be taken in the matter. Attorney Gen. Speed briefly rejoined, commenting upon the distinction between civil and military jurisdiction, showing the utter impossibility of fighting battles, carrying on war, maintaining government in time of war, &c., by process of law.
The execution of the four condemned took place at twenty-two minutes past one o'clock on Friday—all falling at the same time, the gallows being erected in the Arsenal Grounds—and was conducted in the most solemn and quiet manner. There was breathless silence for several minutes after the drop fell, but in a short time the persons commenced to move, and most all left the yard in thirty minutes. The bodies were cut down, placed in coffins, and buried in the yard near the scaffold, where graves were previously dug. The bodies of all but Payne were claimed by their relatives, and will be duly delivered to them. About two hundred spectators witnessed the execution, in addition to some eight hundred soldiers who constituted the guard.
Among the traders who lately arrived at Cincinnati to purchase dry goods was a former slave of Jeff. Davis, named Montgomery. He is 54 years old, and quite intelligent He was Jeff. Davis's slave over twenty years, and served him as carpenter and machinest on his brother's plantation of 2000 acres. The entire 2000 acres are now cultivated in cotton by his former fellow-bondmen, who, he says, are working industriously and more effectively than under the former rule.
<c04>
CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH OF JULY AT THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
WASHIHGTON, July 5, 1865 
With the exception of the celebration in the Presidential grounds, the observance of the Fourth here was confined to a diminutive picnic or two, drives out of town, or steamboat excursions down the Potomac. From sunrise to sunset, the city presented an unusually inanimate aspect. Bar-rooms and drinking saloons were deserted by their accustomed habitues, the streets lacked even their usual busy throngs, and, with the exception of juveniles, the people evinced an intention to enjoy the day in quiet relaxation. The Colored celebration was, of course, the grand feature of the day, and passed off unmarred by accidents or disturbances of any kind.
The address of the colored orator, O. Howard Day of your city, is spoken of by all who listened to it in terms of the highest admiration. Not only was it delivered with incomparable eloquence and force, but its language and sentiment were especially appropriate to the occasion, and exhibited a high degree of intellect in the orator. He was frequently interrupted by uncontrollable outbursts of applause from the audience in front and the occupants of the platform, among whom were a large number of our most prominent celebrities. The poem of the venerable Dr. Pierpont was listened to with close attention, and was likewise frequently applauded. The powerful addresses of Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, and Gov. Hahn, of Louisiana, were received with the greatest enthusiasm, particularly when they assured their listeners that as they had nobly stood by the country, the people would stand by them, and soon give them the privilege of casting loyal ballots for the Union which they had helped to preserve.
During the exercises, letters were read from Gen. Fremont, Gov. Andrew, John W. Forney, Fred. Douglass and others, all of which expressed sympathy with the objects of the celebration. Later in the day, the colored Sabbath Schools took possession of the platform, and went through a number of interesting exercises.
The fireworks south of the White House, in the evening, attracted an immense concourse of people, and were beautiful and appropriate. A piece encircled by a motto, and representing the pictures of Washington and Lincoln, was perhaps the finest of the collection.—Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.
The following abstract of Senator Wilson's speech will be read with interest:
"Mr. Wilson gave an account of his first coming to Washington, thirty years ago; of the sale of slaves he had witnessed, the brutality of the treatment of the slave, and the despotism of the slave masters; but, said he, I thank God slavery is dead and buried. I thank God for that, (cries of ”Amen," and cheers,) and I want to say it to you to remember and carry it to your neighbors; let it go from neighbor to neighbor across the continent, that the freed men of the United States, shall be protected in all their rights. (Immense cheering.) Slavery has robbed your cradles, it shall rob them no more. (Cheers.) It has had its auction-blocks; the auction-blocks are gone forever. It has had its bloodhounds; those bloodhounds shall be on the track of your race no more. (Loud and continued cheers.) Let the former slave masters understand this. Let every rebel in the country, from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, understand that their power and authority over the black man on this continent has passed away forever. I want them to understand it is destroyed; and with its death the compromises of the Federal Constitution, the laws of Congress, the black laws of the late Slave States, and of the Free States, and all the political dogmas and ideas upon which the system of slavery depended, must be numbered among the things of the past. The Dred Scott interpretation of the Constitution from the Supreme Court, under which the negro has no political rights that a white man is bound to respect, goes with all this other rubbish into the dumping-ground of slavery. (Immense applause.)
I want them to understand that their black code and their black laws, and all they have done to hold men in slavery, was abolished forever with slavery itself; and I serve here to-day a notice upon them that I have prepared a bill, which I intend to introduce, too, on the first day of the next Congress, for the personal liberty of every free man on this continent; and I want them to understand that I belong to a body of men who are accustomed to sleep on the field of victory—a class of men who accept the doctrines of the New Testament—who accept, as the living faith of the North American Republic, the Declaration of Independence—a class of men who represent the principles of liberty, of humanity, of justice, and a set of men who never were and never can be defeated. Nothing is more sublime than the record of the black man in this struggle. They have stood by our brave soldiers and sailors in the thickest fights; they have guided them against the enemy; they have stood by our men when fugitives from starvation prisons, and given them food; they have stood by the country faithfully in the hour of trial, and the country will stand by them.
In conclusion, Mr. Wilson urged his hearers to temperance, industry, and economy; to educate themselves and their children; to be an ornament and a blessing to the country.

OLD SEVENTEEN SEVENTY-SIX TO YOUNG EIGHTEEN SIXTY-FIVE.
In the Fourth of July Procession at Bangor, Maine, were sixty-six soldiers of 1812, about five hundred of the ”boys in blue," and a revolutionary soldier of 1776, the venerable William Hutchings of Penobscot, aged over a hundred years. The Bangor Whig publishes the following speech made by the old gentleman while sitting in his chair under a portico, where part of the exercises of the day took place. After thanking the audience for his reception, and stating that he was present to gratify others rather than himself—although being there gave him the greatest pleasure— he said:
"At the age of fifteen, I enlisted for the defence of my country; and I have stood by her in all her subsequent perils. I have always been in favor of my country. I was through the battle of Bagaduce. Our shipping on the Penobscot was all destroyed, and our soldiers were obliged to fly through the woods to the Kennebec. My father was obliged to flee with the rest. When he returned, the tories threatened his life. Mother was so distressed that she coaxed father to move away. He got up a party, and went to Damariscotta, where we lived until the war was over. I was there all the time, except when I was in the service of my country. When peace was declared, we returned to Bagaduce. Our buildings were burned, fences all gone, father poor and mother sick. There were ten children to be supported by father's labor and mine, for I was then in my 18th year. It was a gloomy time, but God prospered us.
I don't know what will be done with the men that made this cursed, wicked rebellion. Jeff. Davis and the assassins of our noble President ought to be treated as God's law says: ”Whose sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed."
Such a wicked thing as Jeff. Davis attempted was never done before, and will never be done again by man. The papers say he don't like pea soup. I guess the poor, dear boys that he starved to death would have been glad to have got pea soup or bean broth. He ought to go hungry. I have no sympathy with copperheads who support Jeff. Davis. I call them chowderheads. The true meaning of a copperhead is a man without principle of any kind.
I have been much troubled, lately, because it seems as though they wasn't going to allow all the loyal men to vote. The black man is made free, and I can't comprehend how a freeman can be deprived of the liberty of the ballot-box. God's family is a free family. Christ made all men free, and no human being can help it. The negroes must not be deprived of their rights. The President will not permit it—Congress will not permit it—and if they will, God will not permit it—never!—never!!—NEVER!!!—NEVER!!!!
My heart is filled with joy that this rebellion is putdown. And, dear soldiers, it does my heart good to know that you have returned home. I have always prayed for you, and the blessed God has answered my prayers. The country owes you a debt that they can never pay. You have put down this wicked and awful rebellion, and the good God will reward you. I have lost grandsons in this war, but it is a glorious privilege to die for one's country. Thank God, there are no tories in my family!
I thank you all for the great honor you have done me; it is almost too great for me to bear. I do not deserve it. They told me it might kill me, but I could never die any better than celebrating the Fourth of July. Good bye—God bless you all!”
THE CRAZY SOUTH CAROLINIANS. A correspondent, writing from Columbia, S. C., to the New York Herald, says:
"I was a great deal amused at the conversation of an intelligent colored driver who was pointing out the places of interest to us as he drove us about the city. Upon passing the Insane Asylum, we asked him if there were many confined there at present. He said ’No, there are not many now, but,' says he, ’Lord bless you, Massa, you ought to have seen how fast they took crazy after the Conscription hill was passed! Why,' said he, ’they used to bring them in by the hundred, so crazy that they could not go into the army; but as soon as the war was over, they had just as much sense as I have.' This same negro told me that when some of our prisoners were passing through there, one of them told him he had nothing to eat for two days. He went off and bought forty loaves of bread, which he managed to slip in to them at night He was informed on by some person that saw him; and ’my golly,' says he, ’they gave me about fifty lashes.’”
<c05>
LETTER FROM GOVERNOR ANDREW.
Gov. Andrew sent the following response to an invitation to attend the celebration in Boston:-
BOSTON, June 80, 1865.
His Honor F. W. Lincoln, Jr., Mayor, Boston, Mass.: My Dear Sir—My absence from Boston during a part of next week will prevent my enjoying the opportunity offered by your invitation to share with the City Government of Boston the festive commemoration of the Anniversary of American Independence, which it is one of the distinctions of Boston, that she always celebrates with a fervent and generous devotion worthy the ancient fame of her ”Cradle of Liberty."
I think she is the only city in the Union of which it can be affirmed that this commemoration, in all the forms of the prophecy imputed to John Adams, is observed and kept by the municipality and by the people, in Peace and in War, without interruption, and with every emblem and demonstration of patriotic joy and gratitude.
In 1859, I spent the 4th of July in the city of Washington, when, in conversation with a member of Mr. Buchanan's Cabinet, he remarked, with the twang and the peculiarity of emphasis which used to mark the conversation of the apostles and leaders of incipient treason: ”You Yankees are a singular people." To which I gladly seized the occasion of replying,” Indeed we are, sir. In Boston, the metropolis of Yankeedom, this very anniversary of American Liberty has been ushered in by a church of bells and of cannon.
It is kept by our people as the’ Sabbath day of Freedom.' By processions, civic and military; by solemn praise, and by a patriotic oration in the presence of the authorities and fathers of the city; by a cheerful reunion of the representatives of the people and of every branch of the public service around the hospitable board where the Mayor in person presides; by festivities and games for children of every class; by sundown guns and evening fireworks, attracting the whole population of Eastern Massachusetts—by all these and by a universal holiday, these ’singular Yankees’ are remembering and celebrating this day. While here at the seat of the Federal Government, I perceive only a few colored children of the Sunday Schools marching in procession, alone and almost without human sympathy. I hope to see the day when something of our singularity may strike as high as the city of Washington."
He did not pursue the discussion. Since then, I have thought, oh how often, of the poor little colored girls and boys, guarding as it were the few coals on that which should have been the High Altar, and which have at last flamed up with ample blaze, wafting to Heaven the fragrant incense of a sublime devotion. 
Let these ”singular Yankees” continue to be faithful to the ancient traditions. Let Boston assume and keep, if need be, in the lead of every true thought, of every noble purpose; and let the institutions and ideas which distinguish the people of New England be commended to every State and every section, until Liberty shall be equally enjoyed by all the citizens of the Union in impartial participation.
I have the honor to be, faithfully and respectfully, 
Your friend and servant,
JOHN A. ANDREW.
THE NATION. The first number of The Nation newspaper was issued on the 6th. It is a very handsome publication of 32 pages, and is of the form of those London weeklies that have a world-wide reputation. The contents are of the first class of journalism, and the conductors have only to continue as they begin to gain for The Nation a high place among the best publications of the time. The editorials are numerous, and discuss a large variety of subjects, all of great and immediate interest; and they are written with distinguished ability. Some articles that come under the head of miscellaneous matter are given, one of the best of which is that entitled ”The March of the Seventh Regiment to Washington," written from Annapolis, in April, 1861, by the late Colonel Robert G. Shaw, who was then a private in the well-known New York 7th. The letter is a racy production, and affords a lively picture of military life in the earliest days of the secession war. General Butler the writer describes as” an energetic, cursing and swearing old fellow." Club Life is well treated. A long article is devoted to Rev. Mr. Hudson's quarrel with General Butler. Seven pages are devoted to Literature, and, besides Literary Notes, contain criticisms on recent works by Mr. Carlyle, Mr. Kingsley, Richard Grant White, and Matthew Arnold. The Fine Arts occupy two pages, and embrace the first notice of the Fortieth Annual Exhibition of the National Academy of Design. About a fourth part of the number is filled with advertisements, most of which are of a literary character. Judging from this first number of The Nation, we can congratulate the country on the possession of a first class weekly journal.—Boston Traveller.
AFRAID OF NORTHERN KINDNESS. The Nashville Union of the 28th ult. publishes the letter of S. J. Cooke to the rebel Gov. Harris, proposing to assassinate Gov. Johnson. This precious document, dated April 21th, 1862, was found among the State archives recently captured. Cooke appears to have been an adept at firing the Southern heart, and was sagaciously alive to the danger of having the fire extinguished by coming in contact with Northern humanity. He says:” I fear the enemy will treat our men behind too kindly; thereby converting them to Yankees. Killing a few pickets, etc., would soon terminate their damnable civility." Here is a hint of the barbarous policy that pervaded the South.
The New York Daily News, a paper not likely to bestow undeserved praise in such a case, testifies to the good conduct of the negro troops in Richmond:
The negro troops of the Federal forces in Richmond are spoken of by gentlemen of that city in terms of earnest praise. The deportment of the colored soldiers has been marked by delicate respect for the citizens of the fallen stronghold. So orderly were they in their conduct on entering the city, that they checked all disposition to license, and even stopped an attempt at general plunder on the part of the slave mob of the city. We feel it a duty of justice to General Weitzel himself, to declare here that their conduct toward the people of Richmond was such as to have reflected credit on not only that officer, but on every colored man in his command.
DISGRACEFUL PROCEEDINGS. At a flag-raising in Hudson City, on the Fourth of July, at the corner of Palisade Avenue and Warren St., while the Rev. A. Cleghorn, one of the speakers, was referring to the flag just raised as the glorious emblem of our nation's liberty, and that it waved in more lofty grandeur and sublimity than ever before, because the enslaved bondmen were disenthralled, certain persons, among whom was an ex-Alderman, cried out, ”No nigger here," rushed upon the stand erected for the speakers, and, with threats of violence and other disgraceful conduct, succeeded in preventing the reverend gentleman from making further remarks.
RATIFICATION OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY AMENDMENT. The Anti-Slavery Amendment of the Constitution has been ratified by New Hampshire. The vote in the House of Representatives was 215 yeas to 96 nays. Those voting in the negative were all of the so called Democratic party. A few honorable exceptions in that party voted for the Amendment, not wishing, in the language of one of them, Mr. Quincy of Rumney, ”to be the last mourner at the grave of Slavery." In the Senate, there was a strict party vote upon the question, 9 Republicans voting in the affirmative and 3 Democrats in the negative.
THE FREEDMEN IN FLORIDA. Gen. Howard has received a report from two agents of his Bureau sent out to travel through Florida for the purpose of informing both employer and employee as to their present relations, and to give them such advice and instructions as might, under the circumstances, be necessary. They give a hopeful account of Freedmen's affairs, and say that the planters generally acquiesce in the new regime, and acknowledge the imperative necessity for colored labor in that State.
CHARLES J. FAULKNER NOT PARDONED. There is the best authority for contradicting the report that Charles J. Faulkner has been pardoned by the President, who has not as yet acted in the case. Therefore all that has been published in this matter is premature.
A MAGNIFICENT BEQUEST BY ADMIRAL DUPONY. Real Admiral Dupont bequeathed $175,000—the amount of his prize money—to establish a national asylum in Washington for the orphans of soldiers and sailors.
Parson Brownlow has recently delivered himself of the opinion that he ”would rather trust the poorest black in Tennessee with a vote than a miserable canting rebel, who has sneaked back into the Union without taking time to wash the loyal blood off his hands.
John Stewart, a notorious bounty jumper, of West Roxbury, who has just enlisted into the regular army, was arrested at Fort Independence, Saturday, on suspicion that he is the monster who murdered the Joyce children a few weeks since.
The town of Denton, Maryland, was nearly destroyed by fire on the evening of the Fourth. Not a store, shop or hotel is left, and many families are destitute. A rocket thrown into the upper part of an old building was the cause of the disaster.
Norfolk has been put under martial law by Gen. Terry, The military governorship of Alexandria has been abolished.
<c06>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE.
SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, seat or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY, 
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON, 
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLE,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR, 
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE, 
RICHARD GRANT WHITE, 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON, 
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c.
A more extended list will be published in a few days. 
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau st, New York.
June 16.

WOOL.
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISSION and BROKERAGE business
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufacturers large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required.
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase of Fleece or Pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia markets, will receive immediate attention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, JR.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia. 
Boston, July 14, 1865.

HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND 
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York. 
June 23. 4w

DR. Ayer's Cathartic Pills.
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character an to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:-
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuate medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
June 2 2m.

WANTED,
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady. Good references can be given. Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass.
June 9.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
ASPIRIIG.
BY KATY CARLISLE.
"O diamond blase, whose rays down-pierce
From dark-blue deeps afar,
Could love and worship ever turn
A hearth-coal to a star?
"An ember on a half-quenched hearth,
In a low vale, am I;-
Come, Wind, upbreathe my fainting flame,
Upwaft me to the sky!
"O grand and lose and beautiful
Whose rays impierce me so,
Mingle this atom of earth's warmth
In thy oclestial glow!
"Ah me! the flame consumes me still,
While, burning, I aspire;
So be it, if my last pale ray
But reach that starry fire!"
Boston, June 28, 1865.

"SIC SEMPER TYRANNIS,"
[The following beautiful lines were recited by Miss LIZZIE DOTEN, at the close of a recent lecture in Boston, upon the life and character of the late President Lincoln, delivered in a trance state, and printed in the Banner of Light.]
"Sic Semper Tyrannis!" O sentence of might,
When pronounced in the service of Freedom and Right!
Yet how false is its meaning to true hearts and brave,
When it falls from the lips of the coward and knave!
Each drop of the blood that so basely was shed,
Like a mountain shall rest on the parricide's head;
And to those who urged on the foul fiend in his track,
"Thus ever to traitors!" we answer them back.
"Sic Semper Tyrannis!" O recreant State!
The words of your motto have scaled your own fate:
The blood of the bondman cried out from the soil;
The tears of his anguish, the sweat of his toil-
The right arm of Justice was bared for the blow,
And the pride of the tyrant in dust is laid low;
And when the last hope of rebellion shall die,
"Thus ever with traitors!" shall sound from on high,
"Sic Semper Tyrannis! The judgments of God
Are written in letters of blood on your sod.
Oh, where was your mercy when true hearts and brave
By a slow, wasting famine went down to the grave?
Ay, the walls of your prison a story can tell
Which would put to the blush e'en the demons in hell;
But the arrow of Justice unerring has sped-
"Thus ever with traitors!" in judgments is said.
"Sic Semper Tyrannis!" That sentence repeat
When your hosts shall be scattered in hopeless defeat;
Nor fail to remember that you were the first
TO kindle the flames of Rebellion accurst.
Our protest went down from the North to the South,
Till we thundered it forth from the cannon's red mouth,
And the dust of our fathers re-echoed the cry-
"Thus ever with traitors! Ay, thus let them die! "
"Sic Semper Tyrannis! " Our life has not fled,
Though a blow has been struck at our National Head;
It but adds a new impulse and gives a fresh start
To the true loyal blood in the National Heart;
And the future shall prove, when the conflict is done,
That the hearts of the people are beating as one;
And the words from our lips that in judgment shall fall-
"That ever with traitors!"-are echoed by all.

THE FREEDMAN'S SONG.
De Lord He make us free indeed
In His own time an' way;
We plant de rice and cotton seed,
An' see de sprout some day;
We know it come, but not de why-
De Lord know more dan we;
We 'spected freedom by-an'-by,
An' now we all are free.
Praise de Lord! Praise de Lord!
For now we all are free.
De Norf is on de side of right,
An' full of men, dey say;
An' dere, when poor man work, at night
He sure to get his pay;
De Lord he glad dey are so good,
An' make dem berry strong;
An' when dey called to give deir blood,
Dey all come right along.
Praise da Lord! Praise de Lord!
Dey all come right along.
Dere blue coats cover all de groun',
An' make it like de sky;
An' every grayback loafing roun'
He tink it time to fly;
We not afraid; we bring de child,
An' Stan' beside de door,
An' oh we hug it berry wild,
An' keep it ebermore.
Praise de Lord! Praise de Lord!
We keep it ebermore.
De mas'er 's come back from his tramp,
'Pears he is broken quite;
He takes de basket to de camp
Per rations ebery night;
Dey fought him when he load and strong,
Dey feed him when he low,
Dey say dey will forgive de wrong.
An' bid him 'pent an' go.
Praise de Lord! Praise de Lord!
Dey bid him 'pent an' go.
De rise is higher far dis year,
Do cotton taller grew;
De lowest corn-silk on de car
Is higher dan de hoe;
De Lord He lift up eberyting
"Cept rebel in his grave;
De negro bress de Lord, an' sing,
He is no longer slave.
Praise do Lord! Praise de Lord!
De negro no more slave
-Harper's Weekly.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN
The slave called not in vain;
Thou didst unloose his chain,
And bid him rise;
Four millions now made free,
Lift up one voice to thee,
And sound the Jubilee
Unto the skies!
For Justice, Truth and Right,
Thou didst put forth thy might,
And firmly stand;
Bade all the bond go free,
Like Christ of Calvary,
Proclaiming Liberty
In all the land.

COURAGE!
Knowing the Right and True,
Let the world say to you
Werst that it can;
Answer despite the blame,
Answer despite the shame,
"I'll not belie my name,
I'll be a man!"
Armed only with the Right,
Standing alone to fight
Wrong old as Time;
Holding up hands to God 
Over the reck and red-
Over the crimson sod,
That is sublime!
Monarchs of old at will
Parcelled the world, but still
Crowns may be won;
Yet there are piles to light-
Putting all fear to fight,
Shouting for Truth and Right,
When will mount on?
<c02>
The Liberator
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM. JULY 4th, 1865.
The fourth of July, this year, was everything that could be desired in point of weather. The sun rose clear and bright, and a pleasant breeze cooled the air. A large number of persons left Boston in the special train engaged for the trip to Framingham, and many joined them at the several stations on the way. On reaching the grove, the seats of the amphitheatre were immediately filled. A colored band, who had kindly volunteered their services for the day, introduced the proceedings with some good music, after which the meeting was called to order by Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT, chairman of the Committee of Arrangements appointed for that purpose by the New England Anti-Slavery Convention.
Mr. Sargent read a letter of fraternal greeting from Rev. G. W. STACY of Milford; after which, WILLIAM WELLS BROWN was introduced to the audience.
Mr. Brown spoke of the policy of the government in potting into office those who so recently were prominent in the rebellion. Be said the rebellion has closed too soon, or we have the wrong man in the Presidential chair. The great millennium we hoped to have it not with as. Mr. Brown had hoped that President Johnson would have finished the work which Mr. Lincoln had begun, but he is installing in power the very men who were prominent in the rebellion. The President said to the colored people- "Go to Congress"-but he seems determined to put those who have been rebels in power, so as to get the start of Congress. He has put at least one man in power who cannot, by a strict construction of the law, take the oath of office. Mr. Brown feared we are to be cheated out of what we have been promised, and what the brave men have been fighting for. If the South it to be in the Union, it should not have gone into the hands of the very men who have been rebelling against the Union.
One of the charges against the South has been that the but been ruled by the minority. President Johnson calls upon that minority to rule now. He leaves the negro, who has been fighting, "out in the cold." The prospect it, that the black man it to be ground to powder. The preponderating element in the South it the black element, but that element is left out entirely from political action. Mr. Brown feared that negro suffrage in the South was now an impossibility. It darker to-day than a year ago. We have been fighting for almost nothing. A new form of slavery it being inaugurated, for the "wages" of the best of the freedmen are but five or seven dollars a month. The employed have no right to choose their employers. The black roan bat only been taken from the frying-pan into the fire. The government has broken its faith with the black man, for the negro soldier was promised protection, but he it not protected. He it left at the mercy of the tyrants of the South. Mr. Brown feared the black man's condition would be worse than when he was in slavery. "Gov." Holden says the blacks are not fit for the suffrage, but he hat not tried giving them the suffrage. Mr. Brown hoped hit anticipations of the future would not be realized, and that the freedman would have liberty; that the foundation of freedom would be so secure at that we might rejoice that the rebellion had been. If there was ever a time when Abolitionists should be on the alert, it is now. All will depend on the work that shall be done before the next Congress meets. The President has shown that only Congress can save us. He has shown hit predilection in favor of the South. The policy of the government shows its determination to keep the black man down. But he cannot be put back into slavery without a struggle on his part. Two hundred thousand black men under arms will give the South tome trouble. (Cheers.) If the government fail to protect the black man, we shall have St. Domingo over again. (Cheers) Mr. Brown said that if such a time should come, be would go down South, and help accomplish the good work. (Cheers.)
The next speaker was CHARLES W. SLACK, Esq. Mr. Slack did not feel surprised that Mr. Brown had some misgivings at the prospect of the times. No man can be uninterested in these times. There are many things in the record of President Johnson, for the last few months, to make us sad. Men have been appointed to the government of the South who have been prominent in the rebellion, and we have teen the advice of the Anti-Slavery element rejected, discarded and unrecognized. The President hat pardoned man after man who had no excuse for the crime of treason. Yet, for all that is had, there it something of hope. Andrew Johnson is one of the poor white men of the South. (Cheers.) He has no sympathy with the ruling interest of former times. No one would be more condemned and despised than he by the former ruling influence of the South. Pres. Johnson, in reorganizing South Carolina, has left out the provision in regard voting which he established in the other States. That is something for which to take courage. We have the declaration, made often and frankly to those who have called on the President, that they cannot be more in earnest than he in regard to this matter. Some will say, words are good, acts are better. But the last four years have taught us charity. We had Abraham Lincoln for four years, and we know how sad were our hearts at times. Mr. Slack had faith yet in Andrew Johnson. (Cheers.) He was satisfied that the loyal, liberty-loving men of the nation would never allow the sacrifice which some fear. (Applause.) The President cannot afford to part with his friends, and who are his friends but the Anti-Slavery people? While there are many of the President's acts to be deplored, yet, backed by the people, he will stand fast by every principle which we have achieved. President Johnson has declared that those who with to reconstruct in the South moat accept the Emancipation Proclamation, and pass the Constitutional amendment The instinct in the heart of the President it self-protection and honor for the future. He follows Abraham Lincoln, and he knows it was his anti-slavery policy that put him into the niche of fame where he stands. Notwithstanding the unfortunate surroundings of the hour, we have much to hope. The present policy of the government will have to be abandoned, yet Mr. Slack was confident that the President had done what seemed to him best The women have a great work to do. Without them, the great victory would not have been achieved. Only by all our people joining bands shall we have that success which we ought to and can have.
After more music by the band, which gave a very creditable performance, the Chairman announced Abby Kelley Foster, Lewis Ford, Caroline R. Putnam, James Nowell and William S. Hay ward as a Finance Committee, who would proceed to take a collection from the audience during the remarks of the next speaker. Mrs. Foster spoke a few earnest words in relation to the need of funds for the Anti-Slavery work now in progress. The Chairman then introduced
WENDELL PHILLIPS. He said that we bad been accustomed to come to this celebration for twenty years past Some thought their work was done; but If the events of this summer shall divide the Republican party, oar children for twenty years to come say have to continue the struggle. If the President yields to the influences from the South now pressed upon him, the contest will continue in politics as strenuously as it has done in arms.
The radical members of the Republican party think that our movements should proceed on the principles of the Declaration of Independence. They must be supported to carry that idea into practice.
The President hesitates in regard to the movements of reconstruction. The radical members of his party say to him in that case, Stop! delay! do nothing on an uncertainty! The important thing it to keep the rebel States oat of Congress.
<c03>
Next December, eighty-four Representatives from these rebel States will go to Congress, enter it, and take their old seats. The Clerk (Mr. McPherson) will proceed to call the States in their old order. It is at his choice, and his only, to call then, and then they are to act in the choice of a Speaker, and in whatever other matters may come up. If President Johnson wishes this to be done, it will be done. His theory is, that the rebel States have never been out of the Union. The great majority of these eighty-four will vote, and the Democratic party will vote with them.
Mr. Slack says very truly, that Mr. Johnson has pledged himself to the amendment of the Constitution. But if these rebel Representatives are in Congress, they win trade; they will make conditions, and impose terms. The crisis of the hour is, whether Mr. McPherson, the Clerk, takes these persons in, or leaves them out.
If President Johnson really agreed with Charles Sumner that these States should be left out for the present, as he has seemed to say and to promise, we should not have these hasty movements of reconstruction, embracing so many States in rapid succession. This scale is too great for a mere experiment. It is said that South Carolina has been admitted on a better basis; but if it be so, he could have done the tame thing in all the other States. If it be to, the law it not hit obstacle, and he has destroyed the very excuse which be himself formerly alleged. Perhaps this Southern man cannot at present see the negro with unprejudiced eyes. He known slavery, root and branch. He needs no report about it If be gives up the black race to the control of the white in these reconstructed States, it is because he wishes to do so. We are in serious danger from this position of the President. The interests and rights of the negroes are in danger; of those very men who have given the most efficient help, the warmest zeal, the most self-sacrificing devotedness to the cause of the country. We must stand up for them, as they have done for as. We must let She President know that our support of him will depend upon his faithfulness in this matter.
These negroes are now undergoing terrible persecutions from our own officers, civil and military. Gen. Grierson has been treating them with shameful injustice and inhumanity. Even Stanton and Speed do not take our side in their influence on the President. The President himself is opposed to us.
Mr. Phillips proceeded to contrast McClellan's method of making war with Grant's. He thought that we, instead of waiting, like the former, until the enemy hat completed his fortifications, should say to our opponents, like the latter,-"We shall move immediately on your works."
The new Governor of North Carolina is taken from the Confederate bench. President Johnson sends that class of men to act at Federal officers. Our only defence it in changing the purpose of Andy Johnson. Our danger is greater than Grant's was before Vicks burg. To-day a voice should go from Massachusetts, letting the President know that his friends look upon hit present attitude as a surrender to the rebels. If the present policy goes on, we shall be governed by the whites of the rebel States.
At the close of Mr. Phillips's speech, the meeting adjourned for one hour.
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
The Chairman read the following list of persons nominated as officers of the meeting, and, the vote being taken, they were elected:-
President-Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT.
Vice Presidents-Charles L. Remond, Joshua T. Everett, Andrew T. Foss, Wm. Wells Brown, Nathaniel H. Whiting, Geo. L. Stearns, Charles W. Slack.
Secretaries-Charles K. Whipple, George H. Young.
Finance Committee-Abby Kelley Foster, Lewis Ford, Caroline R. Putnam, James No well, Wm. S. Hay ward.
After music by the band, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH was introduced to the meeting. He said-This morning we had our danger set before us, and the need of effort to turn aside that danger. It may not be amiss if we consider some of the grounds of hope. One of the speakers told us that, notwithstanding the many unfavorable signs at Washington, he still bad a good deal of faith in Andy Johnson. The thought came to Mr. Burleigh, that although he had not much faith in the President, he had faith in God. He felt a confidence that He who has led as thus far through our difficulty will not desert us now, in the very midst of the path-will not forsake the work he has undertaken. This nation was planted for a noble purpose. It is to be held to its mission-it is not to be permitted to turn from its work. A nation is here to illustrate the grandeur, excellency and power of the great doctrine of equal rights, and the perfect sanctity of manhood. The Pilgrims doubtless knew not the full meaning of their task; it was left for this day to show it We have come through the Red Sea of blood, and we mutt not turn back because we face new dangers to-day. Some imagined that when we caught sight of the promised land, we might throw off the harness. But we are to press forward still. Let us not give up yet The work which we are doing as preliminary to our purpose is so impressing the mind of this people that we shall move to our task with a nation vowing it will not be cheated of the fruit of its sacrifice. How are we met to-day? Every one nearly says the black man has a right to suffrage. They say it is his that he may save his own rights, but also because it is needful for the salvation of our own rights. But after all, though the black man ought to have the franchise, yet he must have it in the right way and at the right time, they say. They tell us the rights of the States must be respected. The President may desire the good result as much as any one, but he and we must leave it to the States. Mr. Burleigh doubted if it would be best for the South to do this work. He feared it would be shown that none but those who had been indoctrinated in the principle of equal rights would be on the side of those who thought universal suffrage the true policy. It is unsafe to trust the negro to those who would crush him under their feet He urged the nation to take the right and broad view of this question. You must take the ground of existing law-if you can find it-and conform yourself thereto; or if you refuse that, you must go back to first principles; begin as if there were no law, and build on the solid granite. Which does your President propose to do Let him take one born of the dilemma, and stick to that If you say, let the old law stand as it is, yon leave with the people of the States which have been in rebellion the fall control of those States. The Constitution of North Carolina gives the President no right to appoint a provisional Governor, or to tell him what to do. It is only by election by the people that a governor can be chosen. The President (in his course) says the right has come to him to do certain things contrary to the law of North Carolina. I believe be is right in that, from the fact of the entire forfeiture of all right of government by that people. What are the States? you say the people. Who are the people? It is just there that the Southern people are getting bewildered. We say the people are all of competent age and sound mind, no matter of what nation or clime. Every man is one of the people, and North Carolina recognized that once. When the President has act aside the Constitution as much at he has, be virtually says the Constitution is not binding. If the President had said nothing about suffrage, do yea suppose any one would have had the frontery to suggest it? The constitution of North Carolina says nothing about who shall have a voice in framing a State Constitution. The power which sets aside a Constitution as much as the President has done makes the Constitution as much provisional as a provisional Governor is. He has the power to put the whole document under his feet, and write a new one, as much as to do what he has done. (Cheers.)
Having thus a dear foundation to build on, the deep under lying feeling of justice is on the side of the
<c04>
black man. The justice of the question it clearly his on the issue of manhood. Every State which belonged to the Union in the beginning-in the old time-declared the black man had this right by virtue of his manhood. The right of voting is a human right. To-day our strength is in the sentiment of justice, reinforced by every sentiment of gratitude to those who came to you and helped to save you. (Cheers.) Where would you have been bad it not been for the black man? (Hear, hear.) The black man helped you to success. In the Book of Decrees you will find it decreed that the flag should never be carried to Richmond and Charleston until black soldiers carried it there. (Cheers.) Why stop to inquire at to the manhood of the black men? You did not stop to agitate this question of manhood on the white side, even though it took in Pierce and Buchanan. (Cheers.) You have read the story of the boat aground, which was in imminent peril onto the black soldier jumped to the rescue, saying-Somebody must die to get us out of this, and it may as well be me. Thus speaking, he put his shoulder to the stern and pushed it off, and he fell pierced by rebel shot And after this record has been repeated on a hundred battle-fields, if this nation going to forget every lesson of Christianity and justice,-going to turn this black man over to those who have always oppressed him? You have a mighty lever in the hearts of this people. Mr. Burleigh had spoken before a regiment of soldiers who were recruited In the pro-slavery parts of Pennsylvania, and he was astonished at the great cheers they gave him. We have justice and gratitude on our side to help us. What an Ineffably mean act it would be to give the soldier who has helped us to victory, back to those who hate him the more because we have conquered them by his help? Who could face the world, nay, who could face his own looking-glass after such an act? It is a piece of pure effrontery for the South to suggest thus much. He who can't be whipped or sneered into decency by such a course as this deserves to live a life of indecency. Some are continually talking to us of magnanimity. It is a fine word. It is a fine thing in their estimation when it is to be shown at somebody else's expense. Be magnanimous toward those who would tear the Declaration of Independence all to pieces!! Mr. Burleigh believed magnanimity to those who had shown their manhood-those who had shown it after we have for so long denied it But we hate come to that time when it is only policy and safety to do this. It is our duty to stand for the right as the right. Give the control of the South to the conquered rebels, and how long will they respect your right? How long would it be before they would get the rule in this country? The whole tendency of events must be toward the triumph of the right. We are to fight on still. One blow today may be worth ten six months hence, and it is well that we strike it vigorously.
The band again gave a piece of music, after which Mr. PHILLIPS offered the following resolution:-
Resolved, That we look on any reorganization of the rebel States which does not rest on the principles of the absolute equality of every man before the Law, and the recognition of the full civil rights of every citizen, as a practical surrender of the North to the South; and that, viewing such reconstruction as the essential triumph of the Slave Power, we pledge ourselves to an agitation to crush it as devoted and tireless as that of the last thirty years.
He wished also to suggest that the quiet and peace of the country absolutely demand the settlement of this matter on the right basis. This consideration requires the constant pressing of this position-No reconstruction without negro suffrage. Through all alternations of political affairs we must adhere to this. And a useful help in this matter among the people will be subscription to the Anti-Slavery Standard, one feature of which is that it does not and will not contain either accusation or defence in regard to differences of opinion among Abolitionists.
This resolution passed by a unanimous vote. The Finance Committee then entered again upon their work of collection, and the President introduced to the meeting Mrs. Frances E. W. Harper. She spoke of the past history of this country, suggesting both courage and warning from the action of our fathers in the first revolution. She pointed out the rotten timbers which have been incorporated with the ship of State, and proceeded to speak of the action of the colored people in the present struggle, so noble, so de. voted, so truly magnanimous, and of the obvious and imperative duty of standing by them in their hour of danger, which is now impending or actually present The black man, if not highly intelligent, knows enough at least to give a loyal vote instead of a disloyal one. The success of this nation has been so long delayed because the justice of God met it in the way, and withstood it. The immense preparations, the gigantic armies could not succeed until it was decided that Slavery should die. Then and not till then came success. Only after the passing of the Constitutional Amendment did Charleston and Richmond fall.
As to the inferiority of the colored race, there are plenty of white people who must be raised, and raised many degrees to stand on an equality with them. The oppressors of the negroes are beneath them. An American ought to be ashamed to use the help of freedmen to save the life of his nation, and then refute them the indispensable means of maintaining their own rights. Let not the rights of negroes be left in such bands as those of the new Governor of Mississippi.
This nation has not even repented; it has not understood its own guilt. When we understand the greatness of the guilt which slaveholding implies, we shall be ready to adopt the role, No reconstruction without negro suffrage.
Rev. ANDREW T. FOSS was the next speaker. He regarded the present time as one of momentous interest. This hour exceeds in interest every other hour. We have had three crises. First, there was the battle of Fredericksburg. Two years ago, Meade had driven back the rebels. Second, a great Proclamation of Emancipation was made by President Lincoln. Thirdly, there was the reelection of Lincoln.
But the crisis upon as now is greater than any of the others. If we make any compromise-if the rebels come into power, as teems now to be the policy of the government-the war will have been in vain. During this summer we have a work of transcendent importance. Mr. Foss fully believed we should be victorious. In every crisis the negro has been the conqueror. We said be should not fight-he said be would. We sly be shall not vote; but by the living God be will vote. (Cheers.) Mr. Foss was one of the hopeful kind. If we do oar duty, we shall be successful-everything seems to be working for freedom. The Dred Scott Decision is the most powerful argument for negro voting; for it argued that, if he had any rights, be had all the rights of a citizen. The government has made him a citizen; and now we can say he ought to vote. We can take all the filth of the pro-slavery sewers, and make it all redound to the glory of God.
Who is Andy Johnson? What is the Democratic party, provided there Is one? (Laughter.) If we, have truth our tide, we have everything. "One man with God is a majority." Mr. Foss was going to l work on this cause, and to work under the patronage of A. T. Foss, if be could not find any other patronage. (Laughter.) Suppose we fail? If the Southerners come into Congress, they will assimilate I with the Copperheads; but even then we will never say fail. We stand on the tide of justice and troth, and with never say fail In the name of God and Humanity, success will crown oar efforts.
The concluding address on this occasion was made by STEPHEN S. FOSTER of Worcester. The last speaker, said he, is a man of large hope, but such are not, always safe men. Mr. Foster hoped; but he feared and he thought fear was the proper attitude of mind to-day.
Every speaker has referred to negro suffrage, and this is the all-important question, which, if settled a aright, must be decided by the Anti-Slavery people.
<c05>
This is the great question for the next quarter of a century. Suppose we reconstruct on white suffrage; let us anticipate events,-you have then a Congress winding seventy-five men from the South who represent the Secession party, and they win stand as a solid body-they will have all the old love of slavery. They stand as a unit Either there will be copper heads enough to give them the preponderance, or there will not be. Suppose they get a majority on their side. Then will come the assumption of the rebel debt The second act will be to send the colored men back to bondage-then we snail have a viler set of men in Washington than ever before. Then all that the South demands will be conceded to them. Then another war is inevitable, for the negro will never surrender the bayonet to resume the chain. They will fight for themselves after having fought for us. Then you have war from the Gulf to the Canada line. Then you bare a war between families-the worst war that ever raged is the world. We shall see more bloody war than Ireland ever saw. Suppose he South does not get the majority, what comes then? The South will be united, and there will be a political war in the Congress which will give the South time for farther consolidation. Moreover, you will have been guilty of a depth of ingratitude unknown before, in keeping the suffrage from those who have given themselves to save this nation.
The South, finding she is over-matched, will find she is powerless, and can do nothing. The next move will be to get out of this government. The South will turn to the colored man and say-"You have every reason to hate the North for her ingratitude-if you will make common cause with us, we will crush this foe." So together they will secure heir independence, and the world will say "amen!" If this Union is reconstructed without negro suffrage, this country will see a very dark hour-such a state is more than a possibility-it is a probability.
President Johnson declared at the outset that he had no particle of care for the black man. He has done no act of special good to the colored man. Where has be done more for the negro than to provide for him as a piece of property? Mr. Footer asked if, as some assert, President Johnson is for as, what does he bow before? Public opinion. He stands in the position to understand what public opinion is; if so, then we decide that public opinion is against us. Public sentiment is with Andy Johnson. The President will never go against public opinion, unless he is overborne by it. If the people of the North are not ready for negro suffrage, have we any reason for hope? The South will yet bite the dust for its inhuman conduct to the Negro. The administration has outlawed the Negro; it has him under its heel.
The President is not loyal. The man who says treason b the greatest crime, and then pots the government of the North into the hands of those traitors, is not loyal. He is helping forward the game which is to split this government. Secession is not a crime. Mr. Foster was the son of a revolutionist The revotionists had the right to set up a government for themselves. But the South never proposed anything but a piratical association. It was in partnership with the North, and secretly plundered the other partner, and went off, accomplishing secession by treachery and violence. Justice, Liberty and Equality form a basis for a government on which any States have a right to unite.
Mr. Foster advised the negro to support my government which recognized his equality before the law. In spite of these forebodings, Mr. Foster bad hope. He taw on the tide of the Anti-Slavery party the whole orthodox clergy of the North. We have on our tide all the leading, prominent, active Republicans. They all go for negro suffrage. All that remains for as to go to work to reform that public sentiment in which is our only hope.
After music once more by the band, the members of which gave their services to the cause, receiving only their expenses, the meeting adjourned.
CHARLES. K. WHIPPLE, Secretaries 
GEORGE H. YOUNG, Secretaries.
Account of Moneys collected at Framingham Grove July 
4th, 1865.
F. A. Green, $1 00
Geo. Lawrence, Jr., 1 00
J. P. Samson, 1 00 
J. French, 0 50
J. Wetherbee, Jr., 1 00
H. E. Haskins 0 50
C. W. Slack, 1 00
S. H. Gowry, 1 00
J. Coolidge, 0 50
W. B. E. B., 1 00
Geo. Morse, 0 50 
A. L. Babcock, 0 50
W. M. Sparrell, 1 00
Geo. Woods, 1 00
E.S Wood, 0 25
J. S. Ball, 0 25
E. Rusell, 0 75
Otis G. Cheever, 1 00
By Friends, 6 15
S. J. Nowell, 1 00
Wm. Harris, 1 00
A. H. Allen, 1 00 
Cash, three persons, 0 75 Cash,
Cash, three persons 0 15 
Cash, three persons 0 28 
Cash, three persons 0 50 
One of the Band, 2 00
Cash, 0 50
Cash, 1 00
J. B. Tirrell, 0 50
F. Burnham, 0 50 
John Williams, 0 30 
Cash, various sums, 4 95
S. Albee, 1 00
Mr. Howes, 0 50
Friend, 0 75
S. S. Foster, 1 00
Wm. B. Harrington, Upton, Mass., 1 50 
Geo. M. Sawyer, Sterling, Mass, 1.50
P. Shaw, So. Natick, 3 00
James F. Allen, West Newrin, 3.00
Geo. Woods, Cambridgeport, 1 50 
T. Coolidge, 1 00 
E. M. Marshall, 1 00
John Doggett, 0 25
B. J. Beal, 0 25
R.T. Buck, 3 00
A friend, 0 25
C. Smith, 0 10
A friend, 0 10
Miss J. Tilton,
A. A. Gifford, 1 00
J. B. Maroni, 1 00
Wm. Claflen, 1 00
Three friends, 1 85
P. Shaw, 1 00
Geo. W. Platt, 0 25
J. W. Rich, 0 20
M. Rock wood, 0 50
T. A. smith, 0 50
A. friend, 0 50

Cash, 0.20
J. H. Fowler, 0.50
J. W. Bennett,0.50
J. H. Moore, 0.50
J. A. Moore, 0.50
M. V. B. Bartlett, 0.59
J.H. Allen, 1.00
Daniel Mann, 2.00
K. Heiasen, 2.00
P. Leonard, 0.50
A. L. Maynard, 0.50
j. Marshall, 0.50
Cyrus Houghton, 1.00
W.J. MeLaughlia, 0.50
R. Prang, 1.00
S. Prang, 1.00
J.H. Marshall, 0.50
S. Putnam, 1.00
Robert Mansfield, 0.50
R.G. Wood, 1.00
G. Julian Harney, 1.50
Friends, 1.00
Cash, various sums, 1.10
W. Harrington, 1.05
C. C. MeLauthlin, 1.00
"Not a Johnson Man," 1.00
Perlie Segge, 0.25
M. G. Kimball, 1.00
T. H. Howe, 1.00
L. Bigelow, 2.00
J. Clark, 1.00
D. Bowen, 1.00
C. Mendum, 1.00
J. G. Seammell, 2.00
G. L. Stearns, 5.00
R. C. St. John, 0.50
Stranger, 0.15
Stranger, 0.25
S. H. Hero, 1.00
Cash, 0.50
D. Patrick, 0.50
A friend, 025
Mrs. Joy, 2.00
Mrs. Whipple, 0.10
Mrs. Chapman, 0.10
G. H. Barnes, 0.25
Crouch, 0.15
A. O. Ackley, 0.10
L. Humphrey, 0.50
Dearth, 0.25
A friend, 0.25
G. O. Bean, 0.15
A friend, 0.50
S. Gates, 0.15
S Holman, 0.05
M. Hastings, 0.25
A friend, 0.25
H. Gwinn, 0.30
C. K. Waite, 0.50
Wm. Fish, 0.25
A friend, 0.75
Total Cash, $109.88
Donations.
E. Foster, 1 50
M. Shain, 0 50
N. Swasey and wife, 1.00
A friend, 1.00
New Subscribers to the Anti Slavery Standard, as returned to J. T. Sargent by Mrs. A. K. Foster.
Mrs. Delecta Lewis, of Auburn, N. Y. $3 00
Mrs. A. H. Bigelow, No. 8 Piedmont St., Worcester, Mass., 6 mos., 1 50
Enos Hoyt, Framingham, Mass, 6 mos., 1.50
A. A. Gifford, Hophinton.
H. H. Bringham, South Abington, 6 mos., 1 50
J. H. Hero, Westbore' 6 mos., 1 50
J. Wetherbee, Jr., 11 Pacenix Building, Boston.
L.S. Putnam, Boston, 1 50

Aggregate.
Grove account, $109 88
Standard 10 50
Donations, 4 00
$124 38
That always able and interesting review, THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for 1865, presents the following table of contents:-1. The Drift Period in Theology. 2. The American Unitarian Pulpit. 3. Horace Mann. 4. Forsyth's Cicero. 5. The Ideal Church. 6. Hedge's Reason in Religion. 7. Thoreau. 8. The New Nation. 9. Review of Current Literature. THE EXAMINER is published once in two months, beginning with January of each year, at $5 per annum, payable in advance. Walker, Fuller & Co., Publishers.
<c06>
SPEECH OF CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE TO THE NEGRO CHILDREN OF NEW ORLEANS.
Yesterday, Chief Justice Chase, in company with Rev. Mr. Conway, State Commissioner of the Freemen's Bureau of the War Department, and Rev. Mr. Wheelock, the Secretary of the Board of Education for Freedman, visited the Common Street, Colored School, of which Mr. Tucker is the principal. The Scholars had but brief notice of the intention of Mr. Chase to make them a visit. They were assembled in the large lecture-room of the "School of Liberty," and when he entered all the song, "The Battle-cry of Freedom." This song was sung in a most excellent manner. The old flag was waving on the building, and was also suspend on the walls inside. The children were exercised in geography, reading, arithmetic, declamation and singing. After the exercises of the school, Mr. Chase made a speech to the scholars, the substance of which we give below:
"A short time ago I was in Washington. I there saw the President. Among all the things that pleased him in connection with this time in which we live, I remember that he mentioned the establishment of schools for the education of poor children in this Southern country. He was once a poor boy himself. He had in him that which is better than any mere educational requirement-he had as honest heart and a purpose to do well. He had spent several years of his life without having reached the point of advancement attained by many of you, yet he succeeded by close application and strict attention, and ultimately became a member of the State Legislature, and then a member of Congress, afterward a Senator, and now he is the President of this republic. He had difficulties, and you will have yours. As he rose by good use of the means at his command, so may you; and as he triumphed over the difficulties that were in his way, so may you. You may rise very high in life, if not rapidly to place of power; yet you may attain such a position among men as will enable you to exercise the privileges of citizenship, and by that means ultimately reach a point equal to that enjoyed by any people. I shall never see you again, but I want to inform the President of your progress, of the use you make of the privileges extended to you. Be careful to use well your opportunity, under the board of education, and you will be happy. Obey those teachers, for with them you are engaged as soldiers in a fight against ignorance. we have passes through one bloody war of four years duration. Now we are engaged in another. It is a fight against ignorance, and these teachers and friends are your captains, majors, colonels, and generals. Just as regiments have their officers, and the soldiers must obey them, so you, as little children in school, have your officers, and you must obey them. Be obedient to them, and love God and your Savior Jesus Christ, and you will succeed. I hope you will rise very rapidly, and in the diligent observance of these things you will be happy."-New Orleans Delta June 8th.

SECRETARY STANTON.
The Eastern proverb says: "Abuse not the steed that bath borne thee through battle. "The Systematic maligners of Secretary Stanton are taking a new base, for the purpose of <illegible> him and driving him from office, under cover of the popularity of Gen. Sherman, and their object is not to do honor to the one, but to confer dishonor upon the other. Gen. Sherman has never had such friends before, at least since the war began. The rugged and not always fair spoken chief of the War Department has held the rebellion by the throat ever since his accession to office, and has never shown any favor, of his chiefs, its participators, or its accessories. He has been better and more thoroughly abused by the Northern allies of and apologizers for the rebels than any other man in the country, saving always the lamented Lincoln. He has never quailed before the rage and ferocity of the rebels, nor shown favor or quarter to their aiders, well-wishers and sympathizers. For his stern and uncompromising hostility to rebellion in every shape which it has assumed he has incurred the everlasting hostility of Northern traitors; and now, when his efforts and his policy are triumphant and can no longer be assailed, they seize upon as episode of the war, for the purpose of keeping up their measureless and causeless obloquy. The men who have been continually railing at Secretary Stanton for what they call "illegal arrests" and "high-handed, unconstitutional measures," which the state of the country has required, and the great majority of the people of the country have justified and approved, have never seen anything wrong is the rebellion. They were "no coercion" men at the commencement of the war, "amnesty men" at Chicago, and "peace men" always and everywhere They never heard of Fort Pillow; they never dreamed that there were any such places as Andersonville and Libby prison. But some of their friends have been incarcerated for good cause, at Fort Lafayette or Fort Warren, and their blood, so could and phlegmatic when the patriot sons of the country are starved and murdered, grows hot and fierce over the fancied wrongs of some fellow rebel sympathizer.

JACOB SELWYN'S WIFES EPITAPH.
"Her name was Sarah-simply Sarah," said Jacob, as if the fact were a testimony to the modest nature of the departed." She was of late years 68," he continued, referring at the same time to as old pocket book; "but according to my reckoning we lost three years or so from not keeping a check upon her birthdays. Put her down 68; she must have known her own age better than any one else."
Mr. Wycherly wrote "aged 68."
"Would you say aged?" asked Selwyn. "I don't think she would have liked that. Say in her 68th year, if you please."
Mr. Wycherly wrote as requested.
"She was an excellent cook, Wycherly, and made ham better, I think, than any other woman in the country," said Selwyn, with a pardonable feeling of pride.
"I don't think we can put that in her epitaph," remarked Wycherly.
"No, perhaps not; but it's pity; it ought to go down, as it might have stimulated other young women to have as much said of them;" adding after a pause she was good at figures and taught me to cipher when I was first married; but that can't go down either, I suppose,"
"It would be difficult to express it,' answered Wycherly.
"Pickling and preserving she was a frat fane at both," said Selwyn, with an inquiring look, but receiving no encouraging response from his <illegible> he took another sheet.
Always early with her chicknes and turkeys and pretty night found herself in clothes; what do you say to that? That ought to go down."
Mr. Wycherly replied, "Well, I think all the good qualities you have enumerated must be comprised in 'She was an excellent wife.'"
"Ah! that she was," said the bereaved husband; "and it's hard she can't have it put stronger that that She was affectionate, Wycherly."
"yes, I'm sure of that."
"Sometimes a little too affectionate, and showed a little unnecessary anxiety about me. I used to vex her sometimes on purpose to try her temper."
"And how did you find it? said <illegible>.
"Well it varied-sometimes smooth enough-at others warm perhaps very warm; but has her good qualities can't be set out at length I won't have her little infirmities advertised in the churchyard.

THEODORE PARKER
"LIFE THOUGHTS."
HIS MOST POPULAR WORK!
"Lessons from the World of Matter and the world of Man."
BY THEODORE PARKER
Selected from Noted of unpublished sermons by REFUS LEIGHTON.
Just published-420 pages, tinted paper and illustrated title with portrait an EKEGANT OCTAVO VOLUME.
PRICE $2 50
Copies sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price.
CHARLES W. SLACK,
Publisher, No. 8 Bromfield St., Boston
May 1.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTRONEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 9 TREMONT ST.
