THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,  
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT 
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. Our Country is the World, Our Country are all Mankind. J. B. YERRINTON & SON, PRINTERS.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 7. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1776.
<c01>
The Liberator.
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
ANNUAL MEETING. 
Phonographically reported by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.
THURSDAY EVENING, Jan, 26. 
SPEECH OF ANDREW T. FOSS. 
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, —I have known this Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society from the year of its commencement. For the larger number of the years of its age, I was not connected with it, though I claim to have been connected with the anti-slavery movement from the first; but, for the first fifteen years and more, I was connected with it in a clerical way. I have, however, for the last twelve years, been in the habit of standing on this platform, and of looking into the faces of the men and women who compose the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society; and as I look back upon the past, when it was with the greatest difficulty we could obtain a house in which to speak or an audience to hear us, when reproach and contumely were continually cast upon us, when we were wading through deep waters of discouragement, when the whole heavens were dark around us, and when mutterings of wrath were heard, like distant thunder, and sometimes breaking at our very feet,  —I say, sir, when I think of the great change that has taken place, my heart exults, and I say with the apostle Paul, that weather the Gospel of Anti-Slavery has been preached of envy or of good-will, in the success of this great cause I do rejoice, and will rejoice. 
    My fellow-citizens, the time is not far back in the distance when I refused to hold any connection with the American Government, other than that which I was obliged to hold. I gave it no willing support; gave it no countenance; gave it no vote; but gave it such words of criticism and rebuke as my powers permitted me to do. When, four years ago, the Slave power rebelled, and war commenced, I entertained the liveliest hope that the whole North would very soon be at a dead-lock with the Slave Power. I saw that take place, and I have seen the terrible wrestle going on from that day to this. And do you think, sir, that my anti-slavery heart can be other than joyful when I see the Government, the church, and the minds of men here in the North turned in the direction of anti-slavery, and all of them engaged in a terrible struggle with the Slave Power? Having labored and toiled and hoped and prayed for thirty years to see the very things that my eyes now behold, shall I not rejoice to behold them? Sir, I now give to the Government of the United States my hearty support. (Applause.) And why do I do it? I believe, sir, a great deal in the power of instinct—in men, as well as in animals. I find that the instinct of the slave leads him to regard Abraham Lincoln as his friend. He loves the flag; he loves the army; he clings to it as his only hope. I think his instinct is correct. The slaves have been treated badly, but still they have clung to the American Government. They have been persecuted, still they adhere. Their instinct tells them that their hope lies in the success of this American Government in putting down the rebellion; and in putting down the rebellion, their instinct tells them slavery is forever destroyed. There is the instinct of the slave. Then, loyal men all over the land are guided by their instincts in the same direction. Now, how is it with the slaveholder? His instincts guide him, and he is a hater of Abraham Lincoln, a hater of the Government, and hopes and prays and fights that the Government may be overthrown. How is it with all the copperheads in the land? Every one of them, guided by his instincts, also, is against Abraham Lincoln. Now, whatever reverence I may have for the friends with whom I have labored, if they choose to place themselves on the side of those whose instincts guide them against the Government, and are opposed to the colored man whose instincts guide him always to the Government as his ark of safety, I tell them, if we must part here, then we part. I shall stand with this Government while it stands with its arm uplifted to strike the head of the monster, slavery; and if, with any strength of mine, I can add vigor to that arm, thus uplifted, it shall not be withheld. By no word of detraction will I weaken the power of the Government, or weaken the faith of the people in it. 
    Now, Mr. President, during the first year and a half of the administration of Abraham Lincoln, there was very little that I could approve. We were bidden to hope; we, were told that Abraham Lincoln was an honest man; we were told that all would come out right. We believed it, and we believe not in vain. Two years passed away, and then came the Proclamation of the first of January, 1863, and since then there has been wave after wave of anti-slavery success rolling in upon us, until now we see slavery abolished in the District of Columbia, Hayti and Liberia acknowledged as among the nations of the earth, and having a home at our capital, the fugitive slave law repealed, three of the slave States already free, and others rapidly becoming so-and shall I not rejoice?
Sir, I want to keep up the anti-slavery testimony. I am desirous exceedingly that this Society should not cease its work until slavery is entirely dead. I think it will die. If we should lie down and go to sleep, if the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society should go out of existence this hour, I think slavery would go down; but then, I don’t know that fact; I think so. I don’t mean to run any risk at all. I mean to keep on laboring until slavery is dead. I don’t mean to be cheated as poor Joe Stillings was in regard to his fox. The cunning fox had stolen his bait two or three times without being caught; but one morning Joe found the fox in the trap, and picked up a stick, and hit him on the head, and the fox fell down, as he thought, dead. He threw him one side, and turned round to fix his trap, and when he looked up, the fox was forty rods of, making for the woods at the top of his speed. (Laughter) I don’t mean to be cheated in that way. I mean to be sure the enemy is dead before I leave off striking. I shall act on the principle that the boy did who was found beating a dead dog. “What are you beating him for!” said a man who came up. “Don’t you see he is dead?” “Yes,” said the boy, “but he is a sheep-killer, and I mean to let all dogs that kill sheep know that they must suffer punishment after
<c02>
death.” (Laughter and applause.) So I am for continuing to smite until we are sure that death has ensued. But how am I to do this? Now, there is a comparison instituted between former times and these. In former times, we criticised the Government, Mr. Webster, Mr. Choate, Mr. Everett—whose sun has just gone down in glory (loud applause); he lived long enough to embalm himself in the hearts of the American people for ever, and when we have all done that, we can afford to die;-in former times, I say, we criticised all these men, and it is asked that the same criticism shall be given to Abraham Lincoln that was given to Mr. Everett, or Mr. Webster, or any of those men who have passed away. Now, sir, things have changed. The direction of the Government was then all towards slavery. There was nothing hopeful; there was no bright spot in the political horizon; it was one dense, dark cloud. But how is it now? Now, the Government is on the high road to anti-slavery; now, all its powers are against slavery, and in favor of freedom; and shall we not cheer the Government on? Shall I stand howling on the track of the Government, letting its imperfections, whatever they may be, fill the whole range of my vision, and not be able to see a single good act? Heaven forbid! I want to cheer on the Government; I want to cheer on every general, every naval officer, every soldier, every sailor, every marine, and everybody who is contending with slavery. I think that, in this change of condition, there should be a change in our line of policy. We thought to free the slave by opposing the Government, by dissolving the Union, by overthrowing the Government—if not by the Constitution, then over it or through it—any way to get the slave his freedom. In our changed circumstances, we can do it by sustaining the Union, the Constitution, and the Government. In Heaven’s name, sir, are you not as willing to do it by co-operating with your country, as you were to do it by overthrowing your Government in the former time? Moreover, it is to be remarked, that while the first two years of Mr. Lincoln’s administration were not very severely criticised by us, when he most deserved criticism, the last two years, when he has been doing his best, anti-slavery wise, meet with the severest criticism! I do not understand that. 
Now, I want to inquire, very briefly, what is our duty in this crisis? I do not understand that there is any division among us on the main point. Mr. Phillips says-“The ballot for the negro.” Mr. Garrison said it thirty years ago, and never has said anything else—says it to-night. All the privileges that belong to the citizen are to be given to the emancipated slave. That we demand. We ask nothing short of that. What is the difference, then? Why, Mr. Garrison says: “We can have emancipation. That is the greater act: the greater includes the less. Let us secure that, and we get a foothold to step up higher,” If, in the past four years, we have been able to convert a pro-slavery government (I mean, de facto, for that is certain) to an anti-slavery government; if we have been able to change the entire policy of the Government; if we have arrayed all its influence and all its power on the side of freedom; if we can get the slave emancipated, and begin the next administration with nothing to do but to get for the negro his political franchise, can we not do that in the next four years, if we have done so much in the past four? I have no doubt of it. 
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say a word in regard to Gen. Banks and his policy. I do not know that I understand it, but I think I do. In the first place, Gen. Banks is down there in Louisiana with an exceedingly difficult state of affairs to manage. We do not know, we cannot know, all the difficulties that surround him. It is a mighty and terrible responsibility. That he should have erred in some things was natural; that in his main intent and purpose he was right, I have no more doubt than I have that the sun is shining in the heavens this day. (Applause. ) Now, here was a large colored population. Friend Douglass says,_ “Let them alone.” I do not say so. Here were the white men; they had the advantage of the blacks. Who owns the land? The white men. The blacks are to be the laborers, the employees of the white men. In the courts of Louisiana, these men are not known at all. They cannot sue or be sued; they cannot give testimony in the courts. What then? Gen. Banks consults their wishes, and asks them, by a committee of colored men, what they want. They tell him they want employment and wages; they want clothing and food for themselves and their families, and schools for their children—and he provides it all. The wages are fixed at $8 a month, including provisions and clothing, medical treatment, maintenance for their families, and schools for their children. That is as good as $20 a month, at least. Now, where was the necessity of meddling at all?
Mr. DOUGLASS. Allow me to state, that prior to letting them alone, I want justice meted out to them; and if justice were done to those blacks in Louisiana, they would not need the interference of Gen. Banks to find places for them to work. (Applause. )
Mr. FOSS. Yes; but, Mr. President, the question recurs, and it is a very important one, how was that justice to be obtained for them?
Mr. DOUGLASS. Let them vote. 
Mr. Foss. I want to know if Gen. Banks is an autocrat whose will is law? I want to know if he has no responsibility anywhere? I say, he had a very difficult problem to solve. His object in fixing the wages of the black man was to be sure that he had wages; for if he had been “let alone,” he could not have recovered a dollar, under the laws of Louisiana; he would have been left in a perfectly helpless condition. He threw around the slave the protection of the military power, and took care that the rascally masters should be in the hands of the military power, and on made to fulfill all their engagements. That is the view I take of it. (Applause. ) It was not that he wanted to oppress the negro; it was not in derogation of the negro’s rights; it was to see to it that the white man fulfilled his obligation—that those rascally slaveholders were made to walk square up to the chalk; and it off could not be done in any other way. 
    Again, it is supposed that this is a permanent matter. It is simply a military order; there is nothing permanent about it. When the war ceases, a new to order of things must come; and then the question will be, what rights shall the black man have? I am in favor of Mr. Phillips’s resolution. I shall demand
<c03>
of the Government that the slave have all his rights; but if we cannot get them, for God’s sake don’t let us refuse emancipation, if we can get it, for then we can quickly step to a higher and still higher elevation. I want the act of emancipation, in order to secure to the negro his vote. It is an essential step towards that; and if we get every slave free, I have no doubt—I was going to say, I would pledge my life, and I will, for I have not more than ten years to live, any way—that he will get his vote, and that speedily. The tide is now running all one way. 
    Now, in regard to the change of sentiment in the North. Take an illustration. I went into a Convention of New Hampshire Republicans, a little while ago, assembled to nominate their candidate for Governor. There were nearly seven hundred men present—men who influence and guide and mould public sentiment in New Hampshire. I sat up in the gallery, and looked down upon them. As I sat there, I saw one old man, who, four years ago, was pro-slavery, rise in his seat, and read a resolution, instructing our delegation in Congress to use their influence to have the bill amending the Constitution, and forever abolishing slavery, passed, and, offered to the people for their ratification this winter; and, if the present Congress would not do it, asking the President to assemble the new Congress immediately after the 4th of March, and have the work done. That resolution passed without a dissenting voice, and with great acclamation. Four years ago, you could not have got fifty votes, probably, in the State of New Hampshire, for such a proposition. All is changed now. The old heavens and the old earth have passed away; and behold a new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwell-eth righteousness, are our inheritance! When I came down out of that gallery, I met men who, I have no doubt, have thrown rotten eggs at me—or, if they did not do it themselves, they did not object to having it done, at any rate—and they came up to me, and shook me by the hand, and said, “Did you ever expect to live to see this day?”  All joy, all gladness!
    I spoke forty times during the last canvass for the election of President. I spoke to audiences of from 400 up to 10,000 at a time, and everywhere I uttered just as clear and strong anti-slavery sentiments as I ever did on this platform; and the stronger my anti-slavery utterences were, the louder the applause— everywhere. I say, there is a mighty change! I gladly recognize it. 
    A word or two personal to myself. It was said this afternoon, by Mrs. Foster, that some of our lecturers had left the anti-slavery field, and were electioneering. Now, let me tell you how that matter is; for I suppose the allusion was to me. I was at home minding my business, when a gentleman, one of the National Republican Committee living in our city, the came to me, and asked me if I would speak during the campaign. “Yes,”, I said, “if you will let me speak as I have a mind to.” “We couldn’t help that if we tried,” said he, “and don’t want to.” “I am a Garrisonian,” I said, “and if I go, I must go as a Garrisonian.” “That is just what we want you to do,” said he. So we struck a bargain. There wasn’t much of a bargain either. There was not a word said about pay. He said, “We want you to go;” and I said, “I will go.” Well, I went; and as I have said, I uttered the strongest anti-slavery sentiments. I did not understand that to be electioneering, any more than this platform, for the last thirty years. 
    Now, I don’t want to hold Mrs. Foster responsible for the sins of her husband, at all, for I think that would not be fair; but I want to state to you a fact, as Mrs. Foster has criticised me somewhat for going out in this manner. Two years ago, before the Republicans had ever said to me, “Will you go?”-before I had ever labored under their direction or in their employ—they made application to my friend Stephen Foster to come up to New Hampshire, and aid them in the work of electing their Governor, Gilmore. Well, he went up, (I think he did right,) and lectured, they said, extremely well. I went over the same ground, in the employ of the Anti-Slavery Society, the winter after, and leading Republicans told me they never had better service done by any speaker than Stephen Foster did for them. Did he do right? I say he did. But he was employed by the Republicans; and so important an agent did they consider him, that they hired a man to go into the towns, a John the Baptist, and tell the people that Stephen Foster was coming. (Laughter. ) Now, I want to know why I am open to this criticism any more than my friend Foster, who was my predecessor by two years? (Applause.) In the day of coming glory, when the Administration of Abraham Lincoln, and the history of the Republican party, shall fill the vault of heaven with the sound of praise, Stephen Foster’s name will be repeated as having been two years ahead of me in the Republican party. (Laughter and applause. )
    Mr. President, I am an Abolitionist, a Garrisonian Abolitionist if you please, (applause,) exactly as I was thirteen years ago, when I first appeared on this platform. I have watched every body’s movements but my own, (laughter,) and I have tried sometimes to watch them. I have never seen any departure from the principles that I first heard announced on this platform, on the part of any of our leading friends. We all adhere to the old faith; we all work with the old weapons; but God has given us some new ones, and we employ them too. That is all the difference. This Government in the hand of Almighty God, (and God’s hand is always manifested through the weapons and muscles of human arms and hands,) has been hurled as a thunderbolt against the Slave Power, and I go with it! While I hear God’s thunders breaking all around me, and see the kingdom of slavery tumbling down, I tell you, friends, I shall find something else to do than to find fault with the thunder, proclaiming it too loud, or too harsh, or not harsh enough! I am glad to see the kingdom tumbling down; and as I said in the commencement, I say now, herein I rejoice, and will rejoice. 
    Mr. President, I do not mean to detain you longer. I ask for equal justice to the negro; I ask for him the right of citizenship in Louisiana, in Connecticut, in Illinois, and everywhere else; but if it come to this, that we be offered emancipation for the slave without the ballot, I shall accept that, and get the ballot for him just as quick as I can. I will not say, I won’t accept anything because I cannot have everything. Sir, everything has its growth. Anti-slavery senti-
<c04>
ment has its growth; anti-slavery work has its progress, and must have its perfection. It takes time. I would not compromise at all; I would stand holding the banner full high; but, at the same time, I would take advantage of the weapons the providence of God has placed in our way for the overthrow of slavery; and I am glad that I have lived to see this glorious day, which a few years ago I had not hoped to live to see. Why, friends, it seems to me that I can appropriately use the language of Dr. Watts, in one of his beautiful hymns,-
        “How blessed are our eyes,
    That see this heavenly light!
Prophets and kings desired it long,
    But died without the sight.”
    The “prophets” we have had in this country, if not the “kings,” and they have “died without the sight.” I feel that I have occasion to congratulate myself, you, the American people, and the world, on this mighty change. I think that when a few more years shall have passed, and slavery is no more, we shall all be able to sing that beautiful song, that I read in the old “American Preceptor,” when I first began to read,-
“ Columbia, Columbia, to glory arise,  
The queen of the world, and the child of the skies!”
I say to you sir, that I have always loved my country, and do now. We have been accused of being factious. I think we stand entirely redeemed from that imputation—those of us, at least, who are ready to commend the Government for the work it is doing. We are not factious men. When the Government gets in the right position, we acknowledge it, go with it, and use it for the overthrow of slavery. My friend Mr. Garrison is a non-resistant. I am not, and never was. I tried to be, and held out a day and a half (laughter). When Burns was on trial, I came here, resolved to be a non-resistant. I had been turning it over in my mind for a long time, and thought I had got sufficiently convicted, and came here a converted man on that Monday morning, held out a day and a half, and then I was ready for “stratagems and spoils.” (Laughter and applause. ) I cannot be a non-resistant; I don’t know but it is the better way. The same objection, therefore, that lies in Mr. Garrison’s way, does not lie in mine. He cannot vote; I can, because I am not a non-resistant, because I believe in this war, because I believe in God, who is hurling the thunderbolt of war upon the champions of slavery, and grinding them to powder. 
    Now, friends, I will relieve your patience. I thought, with Elihu of old, I would “show you mine opinion.”
SPEECH OF A. BRONSON ALCOTT. 
    I know that I have no right to occupy a moment of this evening, but I cannot leave this audience without speaking a word. Coming as I do unconnected with any party, a recluse, a scholarly man, an observer of the times, I cannot, I say, go away without expressing my latest thought concerning the great issues which are now before us. 
    Who are the people’s teachers? That, essentially, is the question. Who, my friends, can instruct us as to what is to be done in this national crisis? I shall not undertake, it would be egotism in me to undertake to tell you who your teachers are. Providence is our greatest teacher; and that Teacher of teachers has taught the teachers, and has taught the country, and has advanced us all, individually and nationally, half a century. But who has received the largest measure of light? — who can speak to your instincts, speak to your reason, speak to your imagination, speak to your hearts, and carry the day over all private and individual differences of opinion, reconcile even your leaders, and show you that each man on this platform, and each one of you, are aiming at the same grand end—that the little differences concern only the end—that some of you require less, and some require more, to be done?
    Now, who are your teachers? Will you allow me to state who I conceive to be your teachers, and the teachers of the country—the teachers of the President, and of those who made him President, and who will keep him there, or remove him, and put another man in his place, when they please? The man who, more than thirty years ago, in this very city, ventured to think, in his private heart, that slavery could be abolished in this country, took his position, and throughout all this intervening period has steadily held fast to it, and is about to see it consummated by other hands than his, or those of his immediate colleagues and associates—he is your teacher. (Applause. ) He is the nation’s teacher. He has been the President of these United States for long years, had the people known it. He is President of the United States to-day, if he choose to be so, and if he hold up before him that grand future, that high destiny, to which this people is swiftly advancing. He is no longer the President, no longer your leader, unless he do. You will take sides then with him who calls himself the disciple of the leader; you will take sides, then, according to the breadth, and depth, and scope of your experience. If you are content with the President of the United States being but the instrument of your teacher, and executing what your teacher conceived so many years ago, then follow him; it is but following your leader. If you feel that, at this crisis, the destiny of the country depends, not upon what becomes of the white man, but upon what shall be done for the black man, then yon will determine what course you will take. 
Now, does it appear to any of you, my friends, today, that you can safely trust any administration that you can elect with this humane question, this religious question, this care of a whole people? You cannot. We are none of us quite equal to the care of a single servant in our own houses. The culture of mankind has not yet reached to such humanity that one human being can be entrusted to another, without great uncertainty whether he will be able to fulfill his duties—to be a humane and kindly master and friend. And yet here is this people, to-day, to be entrusted with the legislation of your Congress. 
    Now, I shall intimate, as distinctly and discriminatingly as I can, where my sympathies lie. I shall endeavor to be just to your teacher, the leader. I have now a word to say respecting his disciple, who is, let me tell you, if my instincts fail me not, to be, under Providence, through the eloquence of his words, the sympathies of his heart, and the scope of all his faculties, the leader and deliverer of the
<c05>
country. You know to whom I allude; I need not mention his name. (Loud applause.) It is not strange for gentlemen of my age, and the age of my friend, [Mr. Garrison,] not to know our own sons, and to call them by new names. Does my friend know that he is calling “Abraham,” “Abraham,” “Abraham,” when he should be calling another name? For what is Abraham doing but what this disciple of his has taught him to do? (Applause. ) This is his brightest son; this is the fruit of his long labors. Let him own him, let him know him, let him bless him. (Loud applause. ) Let there be no quarrel in the household. If the son can do more than the father, shall we not all say, “God speed!” (Applause.) Is it not likely that the work to be done, during the life of this hopeful son, is unlike what has been done during the life of the parent? If we have new duties to perform, shall we not find speedier ways of discharging those duties? Is it not time that the Anglo-Saxon race should know how to do things in an Anglo-Saxon way? (Applause. ) Is it not time that we should cease borrowing from abroad? We are not a nation until we have grown our poetry, our literature, our philosophy, our politics, our religion, our modes of reform; and yet, see to-day how slowly we move! We are Old England men yet. My friend who sits before me [GEO. THOMPSON, Esq. ]—though perhaps I am hardly entitled to call him my friend—will pardon me if I say he is not an Old England man, he is a New England man, and has found his own country at last. (Applause. ) It is because, in the old country, they are still doing things, not in the new Anglo-Saxon way, but in the old Norman way, in the old Hebrew way; and so he flees Old England, and comes here for more freedom. 
Will my friend [Mr. GARRISON] allow me to say that I think he, too, is behind his times; that what was good thirty years ago, —good for him, something of a Hebrew as he is, and a prophet after that order, —may be superseded by something better now; that the time has come when swifter, speedier and more Saxon ways of doing our work are demanded? We must have a politics and religion of our own. We must no longer borrow; we are not a people while we do. See, today, what is our religion? Borrowed! What are our politics? Borrowed, not ours! What are our letters? All borrowed; —only the faintest indications, to-day, of some slight Saxon, New England genius. You know I allude to my own townsman, Emerson. (Applause.) Let me speak my belief, that his is the first American mind which has any right to conceive itself to be detached and independent of the old isle. (Applause.) Well, our politics are to be of the same new and Anglo-Saxon type, and here is its leader. [The speaker pointed to Mr. Phillips, and the act called forth loud applause. ]
Now, do not understand me to say that I am blaming any one. I am discriminating, and telling what I believe is true, independent of any thought of mine—absolutely true. It is, my friends, it seems to me, a little too trivial for us, at this juncture, to be inquiring whether we think alike, or not; the main point is to inquire whether we can act alike—whether we can do. The question is not so much with regard to measures and men, as the things to be done. That I conceive’ to be our duty to-day. 
You will excuse me if I have spoken frankly and freely; excuse the imperfections of my discrimination; but I tell you precisely what I think; and I am to-day pledged, so long as I am permitted to walk here, to the cause and the interests of him who represents the new idea of what is proper for the people of New England, who are the leaders of all the world, to do hereafter. They say that in Philadelphia, the people are getting to be very jealous of New York; that New York is very jealous of Boston; and if it would not seem egotistic in me, I would add in a whisper, “and Boston begins to be a good deal jealous of Concord.” (Loud laughter and applause. )
SPEECH OF STEPHEN S. FOSTER. 
I do not rise to make a speech, but simply a personal explanation, which perhaps may not be of much consequence to anybody else, after all. 
You have just heard the statement of my friend FOSS in regard to my past connection with the Republican party. Now, I am happy to be able to say that there never was a time when I was in closer relations with the Republican party, or had a higher respect and esteem for it, than I have to-day, for it never was so worthy of my confidence and respect and cooperation, I think, as to-day. And yet, Mr. Chairman, here is a report from another quarter, from a man who sympathizes exactly with my friend Mr. Foss, of my publicly expressed views of the Republican party. I want to put this and that together, and see if you do not come to the same conclusion that I have on this subject, namely, that, if these reports are to be credited, I am a very strange man indeed, live in a very strange community, if I can be employed by a party of which I express such opinions as I am about to read. This is from the report of a meeting held at Worcester, January 15, by the Secretary of that meeting:-
“Stephen S. Foster followed in condemnation of Mr. Foss’s positions, and of all those who hopefully felt or manifested any sympathy with the Anti-Slavery progress of the government, denouncing in particular Mr. Garrison and the Liberator as having forsaken and betrayed the cause. He affirmed that the government had made no change for the better, but that it stood in essentially the same position it had done for many years past, when abolitionists refused it support. He declared the proposed Constitutional Amendment a deceitful device, and a pro-slavery measure; and speaking of the proposed arming of slaves by Jefferson Davis, he stated that he thought the prospect was that Davis would sooner recognize the manhood and equality of the negro than Lincoln.”
Here you have the two testimonies. My friend Foss represents me as being the agent of the Republican party, and my friend, Mr. Howland, represents me as having denounced that party as fraudulent, corrupt, and pro-slavery, its best measures being only devised to prolong the institution of slavery. 
Now, what are you to believe? You cannot take the testimony of both of these men; in fact, you cannot take the testimony of either. If you strike a balance between the two, you will get at the fact. I never have been in the service of the Republican party. It is not my fault, but theirs. More than ten years ago, I offered my services to the Democratic party, to go out and lecture on the subject of slavery. They would not accept them. I offered my services to the Repub-
<c06>
lican party to go out and lecture on the subject of slavery. They would not accept them. Hence, from no fault of mine, I have never been an agent of either, never lectured under the auspices of either. I am sorry, not for their sake, but for my own. It is true that, two years ago, certain Republicans in New Hampshire, after hearing a speech that I made in my native town, came to me, and asked me if I would not go through the State. And reiterate the sentiments uttered there. I said, “If there is anybody in the State interested enough to get up a series of meetings and transport me from town to town, bearing my traveling expenses, I will spend from this time up to election in the work. “The arrangements were made, not by the State Committee, but by some anti-slavery Republican friends. They put a man into the field who went from town to town, and got up my meetings, and made it, to me, a very pleasant and profitable campaign. I have this day had an invitation to go back into New Hampshire, and travel over that same ground, which I may possibly accept. I wish the Republican party of New Hampshire would invite me to go there; but I don’t think they are likely to, especially if they read the report of Mr. Howland, and credit it. I do not believe they would credit it. I think it would be very difficult to make anybody believe I said what I am there reported to have said. I do not think my friend Foss intended to make you think that I had advised anybody to vote for the Republican party, though that, I think, would be the effect of his speech. I have never advised any man to vote with that party. I have shown that the interests of the country were identified with the triumph of anti-slavery, and that, as between the two parties, there could be no question as to which was the party of patriotism, and thus thrown my influence into the scale of the Republican party, necessarily and inevitably. Thus far and no farther have I gone in support of that party. 
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
Mr. President, —I rise, now, simply to refer to the remarks of my friend, Mr. Alcott. I was very glad to see him on this platform, and wish he would occupy it more frequently than he seems disposed to do, through his innate modesty. His personal reference to myself was not only highly complimentary—as to the past, certainly—but partial and excessive, I think. At least, allow me to say that I have never undertaken to be the teacher of this nation. Nobody has ever heard me put forth such a claim; nor have I aspired to lead anybody. A young man thirty-six years ago, with out influence, without friends, solitary and alone, seeing the slave in his fetters, and recognizing his claim to immediate freedom, I warmly espoused his cause. As an humble laborer in his behalf, I have continued to prosecute the work to this hour, as one only of a multitude of noble men and women in various parts of the country, whose combined efforts have all been necessary to bring about the marvelous change in public sentiment which we now see, and over which we now rejoice. Not a tear has been shed, not a prayer offered, not an effort put forth by the humblest of the humble, not a testimony borne, not a pecuniary contribution made, that has not been necessary and indispensable to the achievement of the triumph of our cause, as it now stands before our country and the world. No “teacher” and no “leader,” sir, but simply a true friend and a humble advocate of the oppressed. 
    My friend has attempted to draw a distinction between Mr. Phillips and myself, as though I had fallen into the rear, and he was now the “leader” in this cause. “Leader,” sir?  “Leader”—where? “Leader”—in what? I should have been gratified if my respected friend had thrown some light upon that issue. I cannot allow, because it is not true, that Mr. Phillips is more firmly anchored in anti-slavery principle than I am, or more inexorable in the application of that principle. Have I not always declared, that all proscriptive complexional distinctions are cruel, unnatural, and wicked before God? I deny here, not in the spirit of rivalry but as a matter of justice, that he precedes me, or the humblest member of this Society, a hair’s breadth in demanding that equal justice be done to the black man as to the white man. I protest, therefore, against this alleged difference between Mr. Phillips and myself—as though there had been a retreat, or standing still, or getting “behind the times,” on my part, and a bold, radical advance on his part, separating us from each other. There is no such antagonism, isolation, retraction or precedence. Neither is he in advance, nor am I behind; neither does he lead, nor are the abolitionists led. We all stand side by side, shoulder to shoulder, and march in a solid phalanx against the common foe—God alone being our “leader” Wherein we may chance to differ relates not to the principles we cherish, the doctrines we disseminate, or the claims we make for the colored population, whether bond or free; but solely as to the relative amount of praise or blame, of satisfaction or complaint, to be expressed or awarded concerning certain public men and measures in their bearing upon the cause so dear to us all. And herein we shall differ in opinion, more or less, according to the standpoint we occupy, the information we possess,  or the ability we have to perceive and understand the relation of events in this tremendous conclusion of the country. 
    Sir, I do not think it is any evidence of superior fidelity to the Anti-Slavery cause to deal in sweeping accusations against President Lincoln, General Banks, General Sherman, or any other public man. Nor do I think it is to halt, or retreat, or get “behind the times,” to proclaim that our cause has advanced far beyond any thing we had a right to expect, and to rejoice with joy unspeakable in view of that fact. Not to do so would indicate either a morbid or prejudiced state of mind, or total blindness of vision. Within the last two years, we have witnessed a revolution in public sentiment that would be worth a whole century of labor to bring about. And shall we not be jubilant?
    One word, sir, in regard to the dissolution of our Society. I have proposed a resolution to this effect: that in case the proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States, forever abolishing slavery in our country, should be passed, as it probably will, by the requisite number of States, during the present year, the Board of Managers be instructed to call a special meeting of this Society, to commemorate the great and glorious event, with a view at that time to terminate the Society’s existence. For what do we
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that millitary authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM.. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”
-J. Q. ADAMS. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
want of an Anti-Slavery Society when there is no slavery in the country? An Anti-Slavery Society when the slave system is annihilated when, by the law of the land, not a human being is permitted to lay his hand too heavily upon the shoulder of his brother man! The thing is an absurdity. We shall then have done the work of abolitionism, per se. True, there will be other work to be done; but we shall then mingle with the great mass of the people, who have accepted abolition, and unite with them in carrying forward the struggle for equal political privileges. But anti-slavery, as such, dies the moment slavery dies in our country-and dies legitimately and honorably. (Applause.) It is a vain assumption, now, for any abolitionist to assume the very great importance of this Society in the present altered state of things. We have everywhere the mass of the people with us, applauding everything that can be said against the continuance of slavery. The ablest public men are making radical and eloquent speeches in favor of immediate and universal emancipation, and uttering the strongest condemnation of the hated system we have opposed so long. “.”Old things have passed away, and, behold, all things are become new.” I recognize the fact, with devout gratitude to God. I will not cast imputations upon the motives of any man, or any body of men, for this sudden change, nor taunt them with being bayonetted up to it by abolitionists. I have no such impeachment to make. I thank God that they are now “clothed, and sitting in their right minds”; and that is all I care to know. I give them my heart and my hand-(applause)-and, instead of prognosticating only evil, and filling the air with doubts and apprehensions of danger in the future, I choose rather to believe that the people have passed the Rubicon, that they have burned the bridge behind them, that they have drawn the sword and thrown away the scabbard, and never mean to make any further compromise with slavery, but do mean to annihilate it. To say that this Government is disposed to put Union first and the black man afterwards, is to assert what is not true, The Government does not say so. The Government affirms, before the civilized world, that it puts liberty with Union!-the liberty of the black man alongside of the Union, or else no Union. (Applause.) What is gained by casting wrong imputations? What is the use of prophesying evil, only evil, and that continually? Is that the way to encourage the people to go forward? If their faces are simply turned Zionward, let us thank God that they are so turned, even if they have not taken a step toward Zion. Their faces are in the right direction; and God speed them onward until they reach Zion, and sing its songs of praise! (Loud applause.) Surely, God has given to us, during the past two years, such overwhelming evidences of the triumphant progress of our cause, and events have followed one another so rapidly, that we really have not begun to appreciate them. A single one of them, a few years ago, would have made us hold jubilant meetings all over the land. Our national District, where the slave trade had its headquarters; where a haughty slave oligarchy held supreme away; where a Massachusetts Senator could not testify against the barbarism of slavery without being smitten down by the hand of the bloody-minded slave holder; now cleansed, purified, redeemed, and freedom, free schools, free thought and free speech dominant! Why, if we had nothing but that great change to contemplate, it would be worth holding congratulatory meetings from one end of the country to the other! And then the repeal of the accursed Fugitive Slave Law- why, it alone signs the death-warrant of slavery! For have we not always said, that if the slaves could not be hunted on free soil, no Border Slave State could long exist, and hence that the whole slave system would perish speedily? Now there is not a slave held in the land who is not permitted by the United States Government to take his liberty where and when he will, and no man may dare pursue him, or lay claim to any property in him. (Applause.) Where everything is so encouraging, beyond our highest expectations, I do not understand why there should be so much distrust in regard to the future. ”Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.” One would think, from what we have heard here to-day, that there has been no gain for liberty; nevertheless, there has been an immense gain, and we are advancing towards perfect justice every hour. Slavery goes down by the righteous judgment of God; and it is not in the power of men or devils to save it from extinction. With it will soon pass away those proscriptive laws and usages against the free people of color to which it has given birth. Let us, then, cheer on the vast multitude whose hearts are beginning to palpitate with our own. Let us rejoice that they have entirely changed, in spirit and feeling, towards us and the cause of the oppressed; and not say or insinuate that they will betray freedom for Union the earliest moment they can. Let us be just, magnanimous, hopeful, co-operative, and thus stimulate them to complete the work so well begun. That is the philosophy upon which I act. (Applause.)
GEORGE T. DOWNING. I would like to ask Mr. Garrison how he reconciles his position with the third article of the Constitution of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and the Declaration of Sentiments of the American Anti-Slavery Society, adopted in Philadelphia?  The third article of the Constitution is as follows;:
“The objects of this Society shall be to endeavor, by all means sanctioned by law, humanity and religion, to effect the abolition of slavery in the United States; to improve the character and condition of the free people of color; to improve and correct public opinion in relation to their situation and rights, and obtain for them equal civil and political rights and privileges with the whites.”
The Declaration of Sentiments says- 
“We further believe and affirm, that all persons of color who possess the qualifications which are demanded of others, ought to be admitted forth with to the enjoyment of the same privileges, and the exercise of the same prerogatives, as others; and that the paths of preferment, of wealth, and of intelligence, should be opened as widely to them as to persons of a white complexion.”
Mr. GARRISON. Nothing is more easily answered than this inquiry. We had two classes in view, of course, when we organized the Society. First, the entire slave population, for whose liberation we banded ourselves together. Next, half a million free people of color, laboring under many and grievous disabilities; and we pledged ourselves to seek their relief, improvement and elevation. But I never supposed that, after the abolition of slavery, we should attempt to perpetuate our Anti-Slavery organizations. For one, I shall not be guilty of any such folly. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF HENRY C. WRIGHT.
If the question before this Society were, ”Shall the right of suffrage be extended at once to the freedmen?” I do not believe there is a solitary individual in the Society who would raise his voice against it. I challenge any man in the Society, or out of it, to quote a solitary word uttered by the Liberator or Anti-Slavery Standard, or any member of this Society, or of the American Anti-Slavery Society, to show that he would make a distinction in the matter of suffrage, on the ground of color. No such word has ever been uttered; and I challenge any one to prove the contrary. In all  our meetings in all our papers, that has been a cardinal point, whenever it came up; and were the question to be put to the Society to-night, I do not believe there would be a dissenting voice. But that is not the question before us now.
Then, again, as to the equal right of the colored man to work for whom and for what he pleases, just like the white man-, I do not believe there is a solitary member of the Society who would or ever did oppose it; and yet from the tenor of the remarks that I have heard, I should suppose that the Society itself was opposed to that idea.
Then, again, as to the equal right of the colored man to education. I never have heard the sentiment uttered in any anti-slavery meeting, or in any anti-slavery paper, that the colored man should not have an equal right to education in all its branches.
Then, again, as to the Amendment of the Constitu-
<c02>
tion forbidding all State legislation based on distinctions of color, I do not believe there is any one in the Society who would oppose it for one moment. We all go for such an amendment; I never heard anything to the contrary.
What, then, is the difficulty? What is the fault to be found with the Society on those matters? The question before the meeting, as I have understood it from the remarks that have been made this afternoon and evening, is the condition on which the rebel States shall he readmitted into the Union—Louisiana, for instance? I put this question to all the members of this Society, and I put it to the nation, Shall the United States Government be called upon to admit no rebel State into the Union until it shall have abolished all legislation based upon distinctions of color? That is the great question before us. Shall we refuse to receive these States into the Union until they shall have adopted a rule that color shall make no difference at the ballot box, or in labor, or in education? There is not a man among us. Mr. Chairman, who does not believe that all laws and customs ought to be abolished that make any distinction of color as a basis of political, social or religious action; but the question is, Shall we shut out the rebel States until they come up to that point, when two thirds of the States now in the Union actually make color the basis of exclusion from political rights? (Voices—“ Yes.” Shall Pennsylvania demand of the rebel States that they admit the colored man to the ballot-box, when she excludes him herself? I  say, let Pennsylvania pull the beam out of her own eyes before she undertakes to claim that the other States shall pull the beam out of theirs. I say, let this nation heal itself. Let the Free States go to work and abolish all distinctions of color in legislation, in schools, in social customs—everywhere. It seems to me perfectly monstrous for anybody to stand up and demand that no State shall be re-admitted into the Union unless it extends the right of suffrage equally to all its citizens, saying, at the same time, not a single word about the existence of the same inequality in his own State. I would say, let every man and every woman stand on an absolute equality with regard to suffrage, as I believe they have a perfect right to do, and with regard to education and labor; and I believe the great mass of this Society, and of the Abolitionists throughout the country, would say the same. But the question is, Shall the United States Government be called upon by us to go on with the war and keep the rebel States under military rule until they can be reconstructed under a constitutional provision prohibiting legislation based upon distinctions of color? Mr. Chairman, I say, NO! I would like to see the Union re-constructed on the abolition and everlasting prohibition of slavery. And what do I mean by slavery? From the remarks that have been made here to-day, and from remarks which I have heard in other places in our anti-slavery meetings, it seems to me that some of our friends hold out the idea that the man who has not the right to vote is a slave. We have been careful for the last thirty-five years—and I speak from my personal knowledge—in all our publications, and in all our addresses, to draw a distinction between slavery and other forms of oppression. When the friends of slavery in this country and in Europe have taunted as with conniving at slavery in England, the laboring class in England being slaves, we have said," There is no such thing as a slave in England. There are people who are denied the right of suffrage, oppressed in their labor, and in various ways; but no slave."? A slave is a man turned into a chattel, and that, and that alone is what we have been fighting against all our lifetime as abolitionists. We have labored for the redemption of the slave from his condition of chattelhood, where he has been left to feel after God and immortality among beasts and creeping things, and to place him on the platform of humanity; and I maintain for one, that so far as that is concerned, the labor of this Society draws to a close. When the Constitutional Amendment shall have been adopted, forever prohibiting chattel slavery within the limits of the United States, chattel slavery is abolished so far the Government can do the work, and then we must go to work to secure to the freedman his rights in all other departments. I have no objection to having the matter discussed now. Let us have a resolution here declaring the equal rights of the colored man in regard to labor, education and suffrage, with the white man. There is not a person in this whole Society who would not vote for such a resolution—not one. Why, then, imply that there is such an one?
We approach, in my opinion, the consummation of our work—the abolition of chattel slavery—the lifting up of human chattels, and placing them in the position of men and women, to be dealt with as men and women, and not as beasts and things. We have a right to demand that the rebel States shall not be permitted to come back into the Union while they retain the cause of all our trouble. And why? Because the act of rebellion was an act of emancipation to every slave in the rebel States. The rebels themselves enacted the emancipation of every slave in the rebel States when they went out of the Union.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.  ESQ.
Mr. Chairman—Allow me one word, which I utter with the greater pleasure and frankness, because my friend, Mr. Garrison, has left the Hall, that there is nothing more unpleasant to me than any allusion to him and myself as antagonists. Whatever may have been the immediate cause of my anti-slavery life and action, he is, in so true and full a sense, the creator of the Anti-Slavery movement, that I may well say I have never uttered an anti-slavery word which I did not owe to his inspiration; I have never done an anti-slavery act of which the primary merit was not his. More than that: in my experience of nigh thirty years, I have never met the anti-slavery man or woman who had struck any effectual blow at the slave system in this country, whose action was not born out of the heart and conscience of WM. LLOYD GARRISON. (Loud applause.) I do not forget the half-dozen anti-slavery sermons which sparkle along our history,—the quiet scruples of some tender consciences,—the passive disapprobation of Friends, their protection of individual fugitives, or the devoted life of Lundy,—still, the Anti Slavery Movement is Garrison's work, and, as agitators, we all owe to him the breath of our nostrils; and I do not see to-day, that in regard to the great principles of the cause, there is any difference between him and myself. In our speeches to-day, we have both wandered, on the one side and the other, from the direct line off to the consideration of motives. But it was in 1833 that Mr. Garrison wrote the words which my friend Downing has read to us as the Declaration of Sentiments of the American Anti-Slavery Society—" We believe that all persons of color, who possess the qualifications which are demanded of others, ought to be admitted forthwith to the enjoyment of the same privileges and the exercise of the same prerogatives as others." It was his own pen, that same year, which drew the third article of our Constitution, affirming, as my friend read, that we were to” aim to elevate the character and condition of the people of color, that thus they may share an equality with the whites of civil and religious privileges.” That was from his pen on the 4th day of December, 1833. This very morning, that same hand writes these words:—
“Resolved, That Congress should lose no time in submitting to the people an amendment to the Constitution, making the electoral law uniform in all the States, without regard to complexional distinctions."
What can be better Alpha and Omega to the Anti-Slavery Gospel than this Declaration of Sentiments and this resolution offered to us to-day? It is the same great leader—whether he accept the title or not—who drafts both these, declarations of sentiment and purpose for the Anti Slavery cause. Whatever, therefore., may be the conclusion of this debate, I recognize the same leading mind at the head of the anti-slavery struggle. In times past, none but his own modest lips ever dreamed of denying him that title; in time to come, we shall need, find and welcome the a me leader.
<c03>
My friend Wright has touched the exact difference, not of principle, but of measures; the discussion of which makes the value of this meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. Mr. Wright says, with great truth,” No one of us doubts that the negro ought to have the vote; no one doubts that the negro ought to have the protection of equal civil privileges.” Of course not. You will observe, that in the opening sentence of my remarks this morning, I touched the same point that I refer to now. I said to you—" We have no difference about principle. Let even past measures, up to the 8th of November, be bygones; we have to look at the measures of to- day. What are those?” Mr. Wright says, no one doubts the right of the negro to the ballot. I assent; every man in this house assents; Mr. Garrison has affirmed it in the resolution I have read. Mr. Wright goes on—” Shall we demand of the Federal Government, before the rebel States are reconstructed, that it secure to the negro the ballot?” He says, ”No”; I say, “Yes”; and there is our difference. (Applause.) No difference as to the right—none whatever; and I have been striving, this morning and afternoon, to clear from every speaker the confusion which seemed to me to beset him. and to show that the only question before this audience was—Is now the time to claim the  ballot for the negro? and, On what point shall we fasten national attention to get the best result? I answered, On the point which the nation presents to us, the reconstruct ion of Louisiana; and I endeavored to chain you to that practical issue, offered us by the Government. No Abolitionist can deny the cardinal principle of thirty years' warfare, that the Government is to be color blind; that we are not to know a white man from a black man. Last summer I said to Fremont,” What is the meaning of your phrase in the Cleveland platform, '’ Absolute equality before the law'? ”Well,” said the General, “this is the meaning: there is to be no Constitution or statute in the nation with the word 'white' in it.” (Applause.) That is what I call the effectual abolition of slavery.
Now, the only question is—and it is a practical question, a question that calls for a verdict from this anti slavery meeting to-day—Is it good now, and on this special matter of the admission of Louisiana, to insist on the ballot? I think it is. Mr. Wright says it is not. To me, it seems so important that I consider it vital to any real success; the very essence of the present anti-slavery opportunity.
Mr. WRIGHT. My friend Phillips does not mean to misrepresent me at all; but I want him to add one sentence, which I, always added—“as the condition of its return to the Union.”
Mr. PHILLIPS. Exactly; the ballot for the negro is to be demanded of any rebel State "” as the condition of its return to the Union.” Let me, as briefly as I can, indicate to you why I take this ground. It is this. As I indicated this morning, the 8th day of November is my new starting-point. The significance of that canvas, nationally, is this. Of the twenty-two hundred thousand who voted for Lincoln, some looked to emancipation, some to war, some to peace, as their means; (Greeley means peace); but whatever the path, the goal sought by all is the nation, one, durable, just. That is the meaning of the twenty-two hundred thousand votes. It is my goal as an Abolitionist and a citizen. In order to have it, we must have one idea from Massachusetts down to the Gulf. That is, we must have labor resting on manhood,—educated, honored, because it is labor. In order to that, we must have the blacks, the great mass of labor at the South, honored, educated, contented. How shall we get him educated? Gen. Banks says that he has set up schools for the blacks. I am very much obliged to him for his intentions. I have no doubt there are some hundreds of scholars in those schools; but I undertake to say that Gen. Banks cannot educate a mass of men by any system of benevolence. It never has been done. No nation ever yet educated the mass of its people by the simple instrument of benevolence—never. England is the foremost nation of the world, outside of our own; she educates, to a certain extent, her poor, from the motives of benevolence; and the narrow fringe which hangs round wealth and comfort there has something like education; but the masses, I suppose nobody will be offended if I say, are almost as ignorant as the steers they drive. So are the masses of almost all other nations. Fear—the consciousness that the lower classes had power, and hence the need of adding to it intelligence—has been the ruling motive for conferring education on the masses of any land. So far as the mere sham which Austria and Prussia call education deserves the name, this is its cause and motive. New England is the only country that has ever educated its masses, that has ever covered every cradle with civilization and intelligence. We spent $700,000 on this peninsula last year for the education of the common people. Why? I do not believe it is Christian benevolence. I do not believe education for the masses has ever wrung out of the upper classes by any such motive. It has been wrung out of them by mixing that motive with fear, with selfishness. Wealth sees the ballot in the hands of poverty, and knows that its gold and its roof depend upon the use made of that ballot, and wealth hurries to put intelligence on the one side and religion on the other of the baby footsteps that will one day find their way to the ballot. That is the essence of democratic institutions. It mortgages wealth and learning and strength to lift up the poor man's cradle. I want that help for the black man. How shall I get it? I will explain. Go down to Broad street, and trespass on the rights of the raggedest Irish boy that sells newspapers in the streets, and in a week I will show you the Advertiser and the Transcript, the Journal and the Herald, the Traveller and the Post covering that boy with their advocacy, and Henry Wilson leading the van. (Laughter and applause.) And why do they do it? Because that boy is one of 80,000 living on this peninsula, who wield about ten thousand votes, and covered with the panoply of that defense, journal and political aspirant hasten to gain merit by conciliating the just regard and gratitude of that boy. I want the same thing for the black man, and I shall have it. The moment I give to the 400,000 black men in Louisiana ballots, Gen. Banks may then relieve himself from the labor of establishing schools; the white men of Louisiana will see to it that those black men, who have their hands on the helm of the State—whose purpose makes life and gold safe or otherwise, are educated. I plant myself always on democratic principles. I am a democrat, ingrained, from top to toe; and I mean to welcome the negro to the same shield that has made me and the Irishmen of this peninsula equal and equally safe. I shall give myself no rest tilt the negro stands there.
My friend Garrison says Gen. Banks cannot give the negro the hallot. I do not blame him for that. I blame him for pretending to make freemen, where in reality he makes apprentices. But he could have given the negro the ballot, had he chosen. He tore in pieces the United States Constitution and the Louisiana Constitution. Judge Durant has shown that he put them both under his feet, and made a Constitution to suit himself. Then, when Dumas (educated in Paris and a wealthy man) and his comrades asked him for the ballot, and said, “We have earned the malignant hate of every white man in this city to save you; give us the ballot to protect ourselves before you withdraw the United States cannon," be answered them—" I cannot violate Louisiana law”! I heard of a man who committed theft on Saturday, was arrested on Monday, and said to the Sheriff,” I could have escaped, but I had conscientious scruples against travelling on the Sabbath.” (Laughter.) So Banks, having torn in pieces the United States Constitution and the State Constitution, had conscientious scruples against giving the black man a vote, because it had once been law in Louisiana. No defense whatever!
But I am not arraigning Gen. Banks. He is not the object of this criticism. I criticise Louisiana and his system of apprenticeship; and when you ask me what sort of Louisiana I want, then I answer, I want not only emancipation, but the ballot My friend, who sits here, [Mr. Foss.] says,” Take emancipation
<c04>
first, and then get the ballot.” I have two answers to that. In the first place, when Mr. Lincoln offered emancipation to the black man, did we dissolve this Society? Mr. Chase said that was efficient; Mr. Montgomery Blair—of whom, the latest news from Washington is, that your President if making his machinations cover all Maryland to put that recreant into the United States Senate—said,” That Proclamation frees every slave.” Many lawyers said the same. If any one objected that, at the beat, the Proclamation only freed the present slave; the masses cried,” Well, that practically kills the system." But did we dissolve the Society? No. We said,” No matter what other men think of that parchment, we mean to have the liberty of the black man now living, and that of his children put beyond doubt. We mean to have the system.destroyed.” Now the nation has takes a stride still further, and says to me,” We will give an actual prohibition of slavery indorsed on the Constitution." I say,” Thank you! that is a gain.” But, at the same time, I see a fence between me and the negro; I see him, though covered with this parchment prohibition, ground to powder by the power of State sovereignty; I see Salmon P. Chase walking up to the line of fence that divides him from Louisiana, looking over, and seeing the white man grind the negro to powder, and looking on powerless to protect the victim. I recognize the interlocking of State and Federal Governments, as I explained this morning; so, like an Abolitionist with a client, I demand, not only the record of the judgment, but the execution in the hands of the Sheriff. (Applause.) I demand, not only an Amendment of the Constitution, but the perfect power, according to American ideas, put into the hands of the negro, to defend himself. To an American, this is indispensable, the only effectual assertion and guaranty of the negro’s liberty.
Having given thirty years of my manhood to tearing off the shackles, so far as my influence goes, of four millions of slaves, I shall not stand by silently, and let the nation cheat me out of a substantial success by the offer of a parchment picture, if I have the power to get something more; and when my friend (Mr. Wright) turns to Illinois, and says,” She don't allow her black men to vote,"—I reply, More shame to Illinois; but I have nothing to do with her; she is a loyal State; she has all her State rights; she has got her fence up, and we cannot pass it. But, thank God! the fence between me and Carolina is down, and it shall never be put up until I do my utmost to secure to every man on her soil the ballot. (Loud applause.) My pathway to loyal States is over loyal States. My pathway to Carolina is over the best blood of the North; and in order to open it, we have mortgaged the industry of this generation, and taken so much comfort from the table of every laboring man for fifty years to come; and having now this power at such a cost, I intend, before the war is closed, to have out of Carolina, not the parchment form of justice, but its very substance and self. (Loud applause.)
Then, again, my friend says,—“We have got, in four years, the amendment, and thus, in four more, we will get the ballot.” That is not the law, either of national or individual life. You know it is a law of our nature, that after every great spasm comes a lull; the system rests in order to gather reserved strength, and saves itself for another effort. So nations, after a struggle for a great idea, settle down to the dull routine of common material life. After the Revolution, our fathers devoted themselves to making their bread, building roads, cities, houses, ships. England has shown us the same fact once or twice, France half a dozen times within the last century. So, mark me, friend! Whatever peace you make, whatever be the nature and elements of that peace, that, and nothing more, must content you for twenty years, unless civil war breaks out anew; for as for mere agitation, America will set the hand of absolute prohibition on the lips of every man who agitates for change for twenty years, if peace is attained. That is the law of national life. What you get by the bargain, you get now, and you will not get any more for some length of time, unless Davis, as I indicated today, goes over the Rio del Norte with the remainder of his veterans, and watches this nation for the rift of discontent into which he may insert his sword. The Abolitionist is to ask now, or he will find his labor an hundred fold greater in all hours to come of our lives.
I claim, therefore, that it is the duty of the anti-slavery body to stand behind the Republican party. That party is weak in its very numbers, weak in the very auxiliaries it has received. The old guard saw this subject clearly; the new men do not. What I said to you this morning of the state of mind of Congress, the best men there have said to you again and again, half a dozen Northern and Eastern Senators have told me that the Republican majority may be trusted on all party measures, and while the technical liberty of the negro is in the scale; but beyond that, when his manhood, civil rights and just claims under our laws and institutions are urged or in peril, you could not trust these men or rely on their aid. Take Mr. Fessenden, of Maine, as a specimen. The son of one of the first abolitionists in that Commonwealth, the ablest debater in the Senate, the leader of that body when he goes back there, recognized by many as such. Henry Wilson said to him, when we were discussing the duty of the nation to pay the 54th and 55th colored regiments, (I give the substance, not the words of the debate,)” It is a question of contract, Mr. Fessenden. GOV. Andrew published his proclamation to the black men as far west as the Mississippi, in the columns of a hundred journals, offering them, if they would be mustered in, the same pay &.c., as the whites. The War Department knew that these hundred journals carried that proclamation every morning over the Northern States, and in some six or twelve weeks, in answer to these calls, Major Stearns mustered his two regiments, and brought them to Readville. Now that is a Government contract. Every man, certainly every lawyer sees that the Federal Government, well-knowing beforehand the offers of their Agent, our Governor, was bound by them when they accepted his work—the completed regiments. To keep their promise thus made is one path, to repudiate it, and at the same time refuse the regiments, is the only other. By accepting the men, they accepted the contract.” Turning to the Senator, Mr. Wilson said,” Will you fulfll it” And what do you think was the answer of the pettifogger who represents the State of Maine?" I would like to see Gov. Andrew'sAndrew’s written authority"!”! (Voice "Shame” on him!") In other words, such a remark not only justifies the Government in keeping goods, while it refuses to pay the price which it knew its Agent had for long weeks publicly promised in its name; but such remarks presuppose that the negro in Buffalo or St Louis, ignorant and a fugitive, poor and friendless, is bound, before answering to the call of Major Stearns, to make his way, at his own expense, to Boston State House, into the Governor's chamber, and to ask him—" Gov. Andrew, I hear you are authorized to enlist blacks—show me your authority!” Now, I venture to say there is not one chance in ten hundred thousand million billion (laughter) that even Senator Fessenden would never have used that shameful evasion in the case of a white Portland regiment asking for its just due. yet that is the man who has just been returned to the Senate by the State of Maine, to be the leader of that body. Surely, prejudice against color is not wholly dead yet, while men reputable enough to hold public office show themselves, without blushing, thus incapable of applying the same ethics to the white man and to the black. Power entrusted to such hands is sure to bring national disgrace.
Now, it is to a party, the average morality of which is represented by such a man, that we are to trust reconstruction. I will cheerfully trust reconstruction to the man who deals with the negro's rights as he does with the while man’s, wherever I find him, and I will never trust it to any man except he be of that class; and I do not find that class either at the White House or in the majority of the Senate. Allow me to remind you of one prophetic warning of Mazzini. In one of his
<c05>
recent letters, he asks—" Why have Italian revolutions failed for half a century?” and answers,” The mistakes has been one only too prevalent at the present day,—that of trusting the government of the insurrection to those who had no share in making it.” The same thing is true to-day, it seems to me, in the mistakes which some Abolitionists make. They are for letting the helm of the anti-slavery cause go out of the hands of Mr. Garrison and the Anti-Slavery Society into those of Republican Abolitionsts, who did not create, but were by us created. Glad and ready as I always am to trust our pioneer, I do not join in that confidence he gives to public men, which leads him, I think, to trust them too implicitly. It seems to me that same fatal generosity which Mazzini describes, and will lead to the same defeat that Mazzini and his comrades have met. It is a suicidal policy. We have had enough of it. We stood aside at the beginning of the straggle, and said.” Let not the odium that we have incurred hurt the cause—to avoid it, let other men lead the masses forward to this anti-slavery work." We did that as long as prudence would justify. To-day the ship labors in heavy seas. Today the nation gropes blindly, its purpose all right, but its Intelligence at fault; and that honest nation needs the constant, incessant, discriminating criticism which my friend Garrison thinks animadversion, but which I think necessary, indispensable criticism, the duty of the original anti slavery host. This is not self-conceit, as has been intimated. What are we worth, if, after giving thirty years to the study of one question, we do not understand it better than men who were converted yesterday, and their vision distorted by prejudice till then? Certainly, it is not self-conceit to claim that we do in some degree understand this question. We have watched the problem through all its trials, in all ages and all climates, under every form of government and faith. We have traced the colored race in all its history; we have studied reform as our daily task; we have stood outside the political machine and watched it, reading the game better than the players. We are wise by thirty years of experience; our vision cleared by the isolation of our lives. Like Tocqueville, on the outside, we have been impartial observers how in America the game of politics was played; and now, at the acme of the question, in the very crisis and agony of the struggle, some are for sitting down, folding their hands, and trusting everything to the newly converted intellect of the country. It is not  necessary that I should arraign the conscience. I only refuse to trust the helm in this night of tempest to a fresh hand.
The Constitutional Amendment, grand and sublime as that National Act will be, will secure only two things. First,—that there never again shall be an auction-block for men, under our flag. It abolishes ehattelism.. Secondly,—it gives the negro, what he never had, the liberty, if he is oppressed in Kentucky, of moving to Missouri; a substantial protection, unless the laws of the neighboring States forbid, as they now lawfully may, the full enjoyment of any right except technical freedom, within their territories. But beyond these two privileges lie a score of questions affecting the rights, manhood, civil status, career, education and national privileges of the negro. For the just settlement of these, we must rely on men who are more than Anti-Slavery, in a narrow and technical sense; on men who use the same ethics for all races. I do not deny that Mr. Lincoln means to be an anti-slavery man; but I maintain, as I have done since 1861,—and any one who will do me the honor to look over my speeches will see that warp running through them ever since 1861,—that Mr. Lincoln, a Kentuckian, born in the Border States, is not capable of seeing a negro exactly as a white man. It is not in his nature. God will not hold him responsible for this constitutional and almost inevitable defect, or lack. He  gives us the blessing of being born under the clear skies of Massachusetts, with no slave system to confuse our ethics. You perceive the difference in our public men. Compare Butler with Lincoln. Butler is a Democrat—bred in the very lowest tier and stratum of the worst New England Democracy; but he goes down to New Orleans; the soil is ripe, and the moment contact with slavery melts the prejudice against blacks, which is a monstrous growth under our New England sky—abnormal, alien to all the general ways and rules of thought and policy here—that moment the channel of his logic clears; relentless as Aristotle or Euclid, every fact and argument falls into place, and stern New England logic hews to the line on this, and other subjects, whatever chips fly into his face! I know his early short-comings in the days when he " saw men as trees walking;” but every man admits that, after a very short while, be righted; and from that day to this, whatever faults any one may charge him with, no man will assert that Butler ever knew the difference between a black man and a white man. (Loud applause). The good seed of this war's experience fell into Massachusetts soil, and the tree grew straight, shapely and well-proportioned. The same good seed fell into Kentucky soil, and the tree grows slowly, gnarled, crooked, awry, and cannot grow any better. No matter whether it is Mr. Lincoln’s fault, or how much, if any. The only important question is,” What it our duty?” As for Abraham Lincoln, his future is in God's hands,—a more merciful judge than any one of us. We have not to settle his merit or demerit. But he stands either a helper or a hindrance to the great question of righting a race, and no man is entitled to call my criticism of him unjust, morbid, too severe, or ill-timed, while I have a right to claim that justice to the negro and the nation demands it. I am only” as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice." (Applause.) I have sought only that, from amid these turbid shoals and uncertain channels, the black man shall come out unharmed, with all his rights. I seek in reconstruction only this principle— such shape given to the new institutions that the head, black or white, which God made to rise, shall rise; and that the head, black or white, that God made to go down, shall go down. (Applause.) Justice, absolute equality before the law, was the high-water level of American politics reached by the theory of the Cleveland Convention; and if word or act of mine can make it real, it shall be real before the cannon are called home, and peace is made. (Applause.)
Nationality, to me, means the idea. It goes exactly as far as the idea goes, and not an inch further. You may send Grant’s cannon down to the Gulf; you do not send the nation there, necessarily. The school-house, honor to labor, the ballot-box, naturally follow the cannon. If, when the cannon comes home and peace is sealed, the school-house, the ballot-box, and honor to labor stay, the nation stays, and if they come home, the nation comes home. We do not make Georgia a part of the nation by sending Sherman there, to walk across the State; it is only when Massachusetts ideas take possession of Georgia that we make her a part of the nation. (Applause.) And in order that Massachusetts ideas may take possession of Georgia, labor mast be contented, treated justly, and furnished with the means of protecting itself.
I will not turn aside to say, as a citizen, no nation can be safe or at real peace till the laboring class is contented—it will never be so till it feels that it has all its just rights—education and the ballot among them. But I say such recognition is just; and for as Abolitionist, this is the end and sum of the matter. As Mr. Douglass said, it is right, and that is enough for an anti slavery platform. But as a citizen, I should have another consideration to suggest. Reconstruct the South as you are reconstructing Louisiana, make labor dishonorable, make it discontented, cripple and confine it, and what will be the result? I know of a colored man in New Orleans, of French extraction, his father and grandfather free, who, before the rebellion broke out, was making a hundred dollars a month. Banks's Provost Marshal summoned him to his office.” Who is your employer?" "Havent got any" “But the law suppose every negro laborer to have a master.” “Can't help that; my father never had one, and I never have; I have always worked for myself, and so did my father before me." “We will settle that!” –and the black man was sent to a 
<c06>
plantation twenty miles down the river, to work for eight dollars a month! Does that make a contented laboring class? When the war closes, the South is to be made like a garden; its fields replanted; its rail roads to be rebuilt; its cites to be re-established Welcome labor there from the North, the East and the West, and you keep wages high throughout the nation. You equalize the Northern States, you turn quarter. Give labor high wages and full work, into that the country through, and we shall in twenty-five years throw our debt off like dew in the morning. Disgrace labor down there, make the negro, worth $100 a month, work for $8, and no white man will go there to compete with him. You dam up the labor of the North; you leave the South aristocratic, labor depressed and discredited, and an aristocratic clams thrown upward into being above it inevitably. The North crowded, wages falling, the supply beyond the demand, tax prices, and industry mortgaged to pay the debt will write Repudiation on its banner. Another thing. Bring back such men as Judge Field into the United States Congress, and you bring back the allies of the Democratic party; you bring back a set of men to cooperate with the representatives of the eighteen hundred thousand voters for McClellan. Holding such allies in one hand and in the other that Bank despotism which our present monetary system gives the Government, the Democratic party will be omnipotent-a fearful trial for Republican Institutions. What will they do? They will say to the North (supposing the Anti-Slavery amendment secured)?Gentlemen, you have immediate emancipation-you want full citizenship for the black. The Northern conscience wants unlimited, entire, unconditional, substantial freedom? you shall have it. But we must have a quid pro quo. We will sell, gentlemen; we will sell cheap. The Northern conscience wants entire emancipation? we will give it; only fund our debt along with your own.” Leave the South one shred of caste, and she will go into congress to trade with it; and the Northern conscience, anxious to get rid of the peril, will trade easy. The offer will be, ”We will give you black citizenship in full, immediately or in five years or four; but put our bottomless debt on your shoulders.” Seal that bargain, and cheated labor writes Repudiation on its banner. 
O, no, citizens! This is a “big job.” It holds political economy, national honor, justice to the Negro, safety to the white man, all in its sample grasp. It is full of the direst issues. They wait at the door, they crowd the ante-room, they hover in the offing, they thunder at your gates, threatening the nation’s life. God has given you one seal of Solomon to disperse them all like shadows. It is justice-absolute, immediate, unmixed justice to the Negro. No other spell will control the demons that crowd around, to beat back and down the nation in her upward and onward flight. There is no other path but that one hair line-justice. As an Abolitionist and a citizen, I use the hours, the precious, golden, momentous hours of these six months to educate the nation, if possible, up to this conviction. I want every lip on this platform, on both sides, to fill the air with its protest, to waken the public to aid us, and bring the nation to its feet in alert vigilance. That is our duty, peculiarly our duty as Abolitionists. The Past is gone with its errors and sins. The Future is in God’s keeping. The Present he trusts to us to be well shaped and rightly used. Thirty years of earnest toil claim of us this crowning vigilance. The Negro, the nation, the world, have the right to claim it of us.
LAUS DEO!
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
On hearing the bells ring for the Constitutional Amendment abolishing Slavery in the United States.
It is done!
Clang of bell and roar of gun
Send the tidings up and down. 
How the belfries rock and reel,
How the great guns, peal on peal,
Fling the joy from town to town!
Ring, O. bells!
Every stroke exulting tells
Of the burial-hour of crime.
Loud and long that all may hear,
Ring for every listening ear
Of Eternity and Time!
Let us kneel!
God’s own voice is in that peal,
And this. spot is holy ground.
Lord forgive us! What are we,
That our eyes. this glory see,
That our ears. have heard the sound!
For the Lord
On the whirlwind is. abroad;
In the earthquake He has spoken:
He has smitten with His thunder
The iron walls asunder,
And the gates of brass are broken!
Loud and long
Lift the old exulting song;
Sing with Miriam by the sea;
He hath cast the mighty down;
Horse and rider sink and drown;
He hath triumphed gloriously!’
Did we dare,
In our agony of prayer,
Ask for more than He has done?
When was. ever His right hand
Over any time or land
Stretched as. now beneath the sun?
How they pale,
Ancient myth, and song, and tale,
In this wonder of our days,
When the cruel red of war 
Blossoms white with righteous law,
And the wrath of man is praise!
Blotted out!
All within and all about
Shall a fresher life begin;
Freer breathe the universe
As it rolls its heavy curse 
On the dead and buried sin!
It is done!
In the circuit of the sun
Shall the sound thereof go forth.
It shall bid the sad rejoice,
It shall give the dumb a voice,
It shall belt with joy the earth!
Ring and swing
Bells of joy! on morning’s wing
Send the song of praise abroad; 
With a sound of broken chains,
Tell the nations that He reigns
Who alone is Lord and God!
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS is the title of a magazine, established by C. M. Plumb & Co., New York city, of which four numbers have thus far been issued. It is started as the organ of the ”progressive” thinkers on religious and social topics, and has already enlisted a good deal of talent among its contributors. Rev. O. B. Frothingham furnishes to each issue one of his remarkably brilliant, thoughtful and well-reasoned essays. Of the other more noticeable writers are. T. W. Higginson, Geo. S. Burleigh, Rev. Edward C. Towne, and Alice and Phebe Cary. Mr. Towne writes a series of articles addressed to Henry Ward Beecher, on the subject of his theological views, which are pointed and searching. The numbers steadily increase in merit. Its subscription price is $2 per annum.
DONATION. Rev. L. A. Grimes has received a communication from Mrs. P. W. Freeman, the lady who drew the cabinet organ placed at raffle in the recent fair at Mercantile Hall, enclosing $50 for the benefit of the families of our colored soldiers. A very praiseworthy act.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slave holders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A TEAR AGO, THAT WRILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETEACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, SOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO RE <ILLIGIBLE>> SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRCMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.I 
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT.
Last summer, after the public exhibition in this city of Mr. W. T. Carlton’s very meritorious painting, entitled “WATCH MEETING,  DEC 31, 1862-or, WAITING FOR THE HOUR”--the Hour of Emancipation under the president’s Proclamation of January 1, 1863-it was deemed eminently fitting that it should be purchased by subscription, and presented to President Lincoln as a mark of personal respect, and warm appreciation of his act, whereby more than three millions of fetters were broken, and a death-dealing blow was virtually given to the entire system of chattel slavery. The list of subscribers was headed by Gov. Andrew, and composed of some of our most respected citizen-the sum raised amounting to $500. The painting was duly forwarded to Washington, accompanied by an explanatory and congratulatory letter to the President; but, though the safe arrival of it at the White House was ascertained, its receipt has remained unacknowledged till now. The reason for this is satisfactorily given in the following ingenuous and appreciative letter just received by us from Mr. Lincoln:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
WASHINGTON, 7th February, 1865.
My DEAR MR. GARRISON;
I have your kind letter of the 21st of January, and can only beg that you will pardon the seeming neglect, occasioned by my constant engagements. When I received the spirited and admirable my painting, ”waiting for the Hour,.” I directed my Secretary not to acknowledge its arrival at once, preferring to make my personal acknowledgement of the thoughtful kindness of the donors; and waiting for some leisure hour, I have committed the discourtesy of not replying at all.
    I hope you will believe that my thanks, though late, are most cordial, and I request that you will convey them to those associated with you in this flattering and generous gift. 
I am, very truly.
Your friend and servant,
A.LINCOLN.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.
In the nature of the case, the President must be constantly over whelmed with the multifarious duties of his office, aside from all presentations of this kind;: and the marvel is  that he has not long since been utterly broken down by the pressure. Nevertheless, may his days be long in the land!
GENEROUS AND CHARACTERISTIC. H ere is a pleasant and pithy note from Rev. HENRY WARD BEECHER:—
BROOKLYN, Feb. 4, 1865.
MY DEAR MR GARRISON —I have had the Liberator sent to me, free, for several years; on the principle, I presume, that I needed it. So long as I was in a state of nature, I consented to have a free gospel preached to me. But, as I have made up my mind, at length, that slavery is an evil, and ought to be abolished, I suppose that I can find no good reason for taking the Liberator without paying for it. Please find a check for $25. 
I am very truly yours,
H. W. BEECHER.
Of course, we did not mean, by sending our friend the Liberator, either to imply that he ”was in a state of nature” on the anti-slavery question, or to place him under any obligations for receiving it; but we sent the paper as an act of personal esteem and good will. As he would not like to have the check he encloses returned to him, he will please accept our thanks for his generous co-operation.
PROMPT KINDNESS. A few weeks since, we published a touching letter from our esteemed and venerable friend, JOHN BAILEY, of Lynn, in which he expressed his very deep regret that his limited pecuniary amens would not permit his continuing his limited pecuniary means would not permit his continuing his subscription to the Liberator. We intended to send the paper to him without charge; but no sooner was his letter seen by one of our subscribers that it elicited the following appreciative note:-
BOSTON, JANUARY 16th, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—continue to send the Liberator to our aged friend, JOHN BAILEY, of Lynn. 
It some one of quicker thought has got the start of me, appropriate the enclosed ($3.,50) to a like purpose in some other direction. Very truly yours, 
Federal  street. 
R. G.
A few days after the receipt of this, another (unknown) friend was moved to enclose $3.50 in the following note:—
“To supply JOHN BAILEY, of Lynn, with the Liberator for 1865, and prevent his separation from an ’old friend’  whose noble cause he has nobly supported for fifteen years’.
For this double payment, we are sending a copy of the Liberator to another poor but meritorious friend of the Anti-Slavery cause. who has labored long therein, and by whom the reading of the paper will be greatly prized. Thanks to the givers!
EMANCIPATION JUBILEE. The colored citizens of Boston held a meeting in the Tremont Temple, on Monday evening, to celebrate the passage of the anti -slavery amendment of the constitution of the United States. William wells Brown presided, and in a few congratulatory remarks explained the object of the gathering. The exercises began with the reading of the 15th chapter of Exodus by Rev. Mr. White. Rev. Mr. Grimes offered prayer. The song” Vival’ America” was sung by Prof.. Stewart. Addresses followed by Rev. J. D. Fulton, Rev. William R. Alger, John S. Rock, Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, and Hon. George Thompson. Although this was intended as a special celebration of the great event by the colored citizens of Boston, strange to say there were scarcely any of them present. Either the meeting should not have been held, or they should have been fully represented on the occasion. Fortunately, a large attendance of their white friends saved the meeting from being a failure.
GRAND DEMONSTRATION. The Colored people’s Union League Association gave a grand demonstration, at National Hall, Market street, Philadelphia, in honor of the Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery in the United States, on Wednesday evening, February 15th. Addresses were delivered by distinguished speakers. Music by a band, together with a chorus, by upwards of one hundred children, who performed several pieces, under the direction of William A. Burris. There was also a presentation during the evening.
THE AMENDMENT. Since the passage of the amendment by Congress, fourteen States have fully ratified it; Indiana has ratified it through one house of her Legislature, and but one State (Delaware) has rejected it.
    Carpenter’s picture of the reading of the proclamation of Emancipation has been ordered from Boston to Washington. It is to be temporarily hung in the rotunda.
    The Richmond papers state that the rebel Senate had unanimously rejected the preposition to are 200,000 slaves. One reason for this is, probably, the fact that Lee is very short of arms for his white troops, and has recently issued an order for collecting all sorts of small fire-arms.
<c02>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXVII.
NEW YORK, Feb. 9, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Prof. Felton remarked, in his visit to Modern Greece, the injurious effect upon the people of their too frequent holidays. It seems as if our colored fellow-country men were in danger of suffering from the very same cause. The climax is perfect from John Brown and the 2d of December to New Year’s Day and the Proclamation. and now to the 31st of January and the Constitutional Amendment. For two consecutive months, the enfranchised race will be naturally merry, and pardonable if indolent. Nor will our white population be destitute of sympathy in these anniversaries. The difficulty is to entertain feelings commensurate with even the least of them, and no wonder that the last and the greatest is either not celebrated at all, or defies all attempt at adequate expression. We who, by abolishing slavery, have assisted at the birth of a new nation, cannot foresee the man-child’s future; or, if a glimpse is had, we fear to be thought extravagant in our predictions. That America, long a name for the Old World’s oppressed to conjure with, will work abroad hereafter with irresistible potency, must be evident to the smallest reflection. A friend of mine, of Teutonic propensities, has set off this idea of republican propagandism in the following verses, which you may print, if you like, in place of my own platitudes in the vernacular:
DER JUBEL:
DEN 31 STEN JANUAR, 1865.
Es schrei’n die Volker freudenreich:
 Die Freiheit kommt zur Erde wieder!
Und ihr Gesicht ist nicht mehr bleich, 
 Und ketterlos sind ihre Glieder.
„ Die alte Wond’—wer sie geseh’n.
Wer hatt’s geglaubt, sie konote narben— 
 Das sehwarzgekleidte Liebchen steh’n
Wie heut’ in diesen hellen Farben?
„ Sie kommt doch! wehe dem Tyrann’!
Kein fester Ort soil ihn beschiitzen. 
Der jungste Tag bricht furchtbar an
Dort uber seines Schlosses Spitzen.
„ Sie kommt! die Thure birst entzwei, 
Die Mauer zerfallt tuit Donnerschlage;
Da endit sich die Sklaverei, 
 Und ruhet die gewohnte Klage.
„” Der Kerker offnet sich; die Graft
Hat ihre Opfer hingegeben:‘ 
Der freie Mensch in freier Luft
Geniesst das neuerlangte Leben.

„ O, wie der ewige Jude, lauf,
Unsterbliche! bei alien Landen; 
Richte die matten Volker auf,
Und die Despoten mach’ zu Schanden!”
It was inauspicious that your rejoicing in Boston, which Gen. Butler styled” the funeral obsequies of slavery,” should have been marred by an attack from that distinguished leader upon Gen. Sherman’s order, of colonization. No one who is acquainted with the views of Secretary Stanton will doubt that he was he author of the scheme in its general scope, though he probably consulted Gen. Sherman, and, it has even been affirmed, the freed men themselves upon the details. In this we may detect a sufficient (if the only) motive for his visit to Savannah. It is next to be remarked, that the order does not pretend to be a plan of reconstruction for the entire territory in rebellion; its provisions were made to suit a specific emergency, and are to be judged by the conditions which determined them. For instance, there was a certain number of freed people who must be cared for, and a definite district to which they must be assigned. It was desirable to establish families in homesteads, and to this end it was necessary to distribute whatever territory was available. Now, Gen. Butler may be right in decrying the quality of the land which has been allotted, but what else was there to give? The interior of Georgia is unquestionably more salubrious than the coast, and terra firma has an advantage over marsh and fen; but when you are confined to rice and, it is unreasonable to reject it because it will not blossom with cotton. But these islands and river plantations have been the homes of thousands of the backs, and are confessedly more healthful for them than for the whites. They are also defensible from their isolation, and admit of a naval patrol, which the Government insures them. Forty acres, says Gen. Butler, are not an equivalent for one hundred and sixty. Very true; but suppose the allotment was restricted by the extent of territory; shall some be unprovided for that many may get their due, or all be endowed with something, though it be less than any man’s due? Shall we be indignant that those who never owned their own persons, are suddenly invested with permanent abodes, and encouraged to improve their property to the utmost? Let the freed-man scorn his quarter-loaf before we counsel him to starve till the whole loaf can be had. Gen. Butler omitted to remind his auditors that the bulk of the population to be furnished with land is composed of cultivators and artisans, and that it was an especial favor to the colored soldier to include him among the recognized applicants for a settlement. As a bounty, this may not be equal to what the white soldier will obtain, but it is all the locality affords, and will be prized by men who have just acquired a right of ownership in themselves. Great complaint is made of the segregation of the blacks, and the stringent exclusion of white residents from these colonies. The phraseology of the order does imply the non-admission of teachers, but Mr. Stanton was far from meaning to obstruct the enlightenment of those for whose material welfare he is so solicitous; and I confidently predict that the various freedmen’s associations will find no obstacle to their beneficent labors in the newly opened fields which Gen. Saxton governs.
Where there is only evidence of good intentions, we should be careful not to criticise and condemn as almost criminal the acts of men who are constrained by circumstances in the accomplishment of their desires. Neither is it sensible to cry,” Let the blacks alone,” when the interference consists in establishing them on an independent footing upon their native ground, and in preparing them, however imperfectly, for competition in the marts of industry, and in the regenerated society of the South. Least of all is it fitting, at the funeral obsequies of slavery, to stigmatize an undertaking which denies every fundamental postulate of that system, and by which, for the first time in the history of the war, it is conceded that the prime duty of the black man is not to swell the government treasury by growing government cotton for insufficient wages, but to look after his own interests like any other freeman—the subject of equal laws, yet having a special claim upon the government for assistance and protection, by reason of two centuries of repression and bloody outrage.
M. DU PAYS.
CROWDED, Since the late annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, our columns have been largely occupied with the report of its proceedings and the speeches of the most prominent speakers—to the exclusion of much other matter, particularly the favors of correspondents, who, by patient waiting, will lose nothing in the end. Next week, we shall publish a full report of the very eloquent speech made at the last evening session by GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq.,—a speech which gave the highest satisfaction to those who heardbeard it, reminding them of Mr. Thompson’s oratory in his palmy days. The week after, we shall be able to find room for the Report of the Ladies’-Managers of the late Subscription Anniversary at the Music Hall, on which occasion the amount of donations made exceeded THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS.
The General Agent acknowledges the receipt of the following sums as of the to the donations to the Liberator from friends. abroad, through Samuel May, Jr.::
From Richard D. Webb, Dublin, Ireland, $36, 48 
From” Miss Mary A. Estlin, Bristol, England, 80 00
These foreign tokens of interest in the continuance of the Liberator are gratefully appreciated.
<c03>
A SURPEISE!
RESPECTED FRIEND—MR GARRISON. A noble group of friends, from all our religions societies, beset my house, Tuesday evening, in the shape of” A Surprise,” gave me a purse  of nearly $800300, and with worth of cheer bade me go on in my Temperance Mission.
Fitchburg, Feb. 9th, 1865.
GEO. TRASK.
A very pleating” surprise” this must have been to this disinterested and persevering laborer in the field of reform, whose efforts to save men and women from filthy habits and unnatural appetites, as pertaining to the use of strong drink and tobacco, are deserving high praise, and constant generous co-operation. The following is the felicitous poem that was written for the occasion by the gifted Mrs. CAROLINE. A. MASON, of Fitchburg, whose effusions entitle her name to a conspicuous place on the scroll of American female poets:—
THE SURPRISE POEM.
Behold the sacred promise not in vain:
Give, and it shall be given to you again;
 Who watereth others, lo! himself shall be 
Watered and cheered, and that abundantly.
So to your generous, open door we bring,
O friend revered! our tree-w ill offering:
Content and glad if only we may be
God’s chosen almoners to thine and thee.
O patient hand! that still through toil and doubt 
Hast held, unflinching. Truth’s bright beacon out;
O loyal, steadfast soul! still strong to wield 
Thy weapon only death can make thee yield!
Gird yet thy sword, undaunted, on thy thigh! 
Heaven is thy champion, angels thine ally!
What though thine earthly triumphs seem but small?
Truth is divine, and God is over all!
And though this offering that we bring is weak,
Dear friend, to symbol what our hearts would speak,
Accept it in His name who bids us bear
Each other's burdens:’tis his work we share.
That thought shall hallow, with a warmer glow. ,
This meed of sympathy that we bestow, 
Bidding thee still pursue thine upward road,
Working for Truth, Humanity, and God.
His hand uphold thee—guide thee as of old; 
And when, at length, thy years on earth are told,
His mercy crown thee with this sweet award—
“ Well done! well done! thou servant of the Lord!”
CELEBRATION OF WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY—CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
EMANCIPATION was celebrated in this city, on Thursday, by the ringing of the bells. They were probably rung in all the cities and towns of the State, and it is proper that they should be over the whole land. What a change of public sentiment does this indicate! Would the bells of Newburyport have been ringing four years ago, if Congress had taken like action? It must have been a glad day to Garrison, and those who commenced this struggle with him thirty-five years since. Of those original men, three were natives of Old Newbury, Garrison being the only survivor; and John G. Whittier was another of the twelve, living within sight of us. Those who still remain must on Thursday, have felt something as did old Simeon.
The passage and signature of the act for the amendment of the Constitution—which is the real proclamation of Liberty throughout the land—caused great joy in this city. While the bells were ringing out their merry peals, the flags were run up in all parts of the town, the boys brought out their pistols and burned their fire-works, the people collected in the streets to congratulate each other, the Committee gave the schools a holiday, and all appeared as glad at the occasion demanded. We think it will be further celebrated—probably on the 22nd of February, if Mr. Garrison can make it convenient to be the orator at that time. His friends will ask him to speak first after the triumph of his policy, in this his native town. On such an occasion, he would have a story to tell that no other man of the nation could tell. The people with bands of music would greet his advent. Such a day would bring a song from the New England poet, who might grace the platform with his presence; and all would regret that the associates of the orator and the poet—like Moses and Aaron who led the people through the wilderness—had passed on without entering the promised land.—NcwburyportNewburyport Herald.
THE CELEBRATION OF THE 22ND. Arrangements are being completed for the celebration of the Constitutional abolition of slavery, on the 22nd inst., the anniversary of the birth of George Washington. The City Hall has been engaged for that evening. William Lloyd Garrison will deliver the oration, and John G. Whittier, the Quaker Poet, will write a song for the occasion, and himself be present. We shall be able to announce the entire programme in a few days; and we hope that our citizens will enter heartily into the demonstration. However much people may have differed as to the measures for the abolition of slavery, that it is now a” fixed fact,” and as parties, whatever their politics, love not slavery, but hate it as an evil and a sin, all will rejoice in that fact. This consummation is the triumph of the principles and policy first enunciated by Mr. Garrison, and therefore it is to him a personal triumph; and Mr. Garrison being a native of Newburyport,. it is meet that this celebration should take place with his fellow-townsmen, who have now come to an agreement with him on this subject. He will return to his own—to the place of his birth, not as a warrior glorying in bloody victory, but as a moral reformer whom Providence has spared to see the fullest realization of the fruits of his labors and the hopes of his life.—Newburyport Herald.
AMONG THE CHANGES which events have produced in men and communities may be mentioned the fact, that William Lloyd Garrison has received and accepted an invitation to deliver an address in Newburyport, on the 22nd inst.. Washington’s Birthday. It was in that city Mr. Garrison was born, and learned his trade as a printer. It was there he conducted a paper, advocating the election of Harrison Gray Otis as Governor of Massachusetts. It was at the same place he determined to devote himself to the cause of abolition, and adopted his uncompromising resolution in regard to slavery. It was owing, we believe, to his mortification that a ship from his native town was chartered for the inland slave trade, that he wrote the article that led to his incarceration in a Baltimore prison; one of the consequences of which was the inspiration of his noble sonnet,” The Free Mind.”
Mr. Garrison may at times have felt the truth of the saying, that the prophet is not without honor, save in his own country. If so, he has lived to see its application to himself become obsolete, to find his life-work approaching a triumphant close, and to be able. An honored guest, to revisit” home,” and
“ In sweet converse pass the joyous hours.’’
 —Boston Transcript.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 12.
The hall of the House of Representatives was graced to-day by a large audience, attracted by the announcement that the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, a negro, was to preach. Messrs. Boutwell, Eliot and other representatives were present, with many prominent officials. Some of the most fashionable ladies in the city, and a large number of colored people, who were not restricted to any portion of the galleries, but sat mingled with the fairer portion of the eongregation, were also present. The singing was by the choir of the Israel church, a colored congregation, and surpassed any devotional music ever heard at the Capitol. The officiating clergy man took his text from the 23d chapter and 4th verse of St. Matthew:
“For they bind heavy burdens, and grievous to he based, and lay them on men’s shoulders; but they themselves will not move there with one of their fingers.”."
Upon this passage he based a thorough anti-slavery sermon, which displayed great intellect, research and oratorical power, and no one present could dispute his acquaintance with the subject of his discourse. He feelingly alluded to his first recollections, in his native State of Marland, of his mother in chains, and of the cracking of his master’s whip. He was listened to with marked attention, and his preaching in the hall which so recently reverberated with the arrogant arbitraism of slavery concluded another of the significant.” signs of the times.”
TWENTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY.
The twentieth anniversary of Rev. Theodore Parker's first discourse in Boston was celebrated Sunday forenoon, at the Melodeon, by a sermon from his successor, Rev. S. R. Calthrop. The sermon, after an introduction upon the ties by which all mankind are bound together, treated at some length upon the great ability and worth of Mr. Parker in a tew of his traits’ of character, and more particularly of his. weighty labors, in connection with Messrs. Garrison and Phillips, as a pioneer in the anti-slavery cause. No man, it was said, was more’ worthy of a monument to perpetuate his memory, and the idea was advanced that no more fitting monument could be reared than the formation by the congregation of the” Theodore Parker Freedmen’s Aid Society,” to cooperate with the New England Freedmen’s Aid Society, toward an object that would complete the life-work of Mr. Parker, left incompletes by his untimely death.—Bottom Journal of
 Monday.
<c04>
THE LATE CONFERENCE.
On Friday last, the President sent a message to Congress., relative to the late Peace Conference. He gives all the particulars in reference to Mr. Blair’s visit to Richmond, and how the conference was brought about. Particular instructions were given hoW the rebel commissioners should pass through our lines, promising them safe conduct and protection. The President communicates copies of all the correspondence in relation to the conference, and his instructions to Mr. Seward, who was directed to confer on he basis of a restoration of the national authority— 
no receding by the Executive on the slavery question 
—no cessation of hostilities short of the end of the war, and the disbanding of the rebel forces. Mr. Seward was further instructed that he was not definitely to conclude any arrangement, but to hear all they might choose to say, and report to the President. The president, in the meanwhile, sent an order to Gen. Grant nOT to delay military operations.Mr. Seward communicated with the President, and helie latter went down on representations of Gen. Grant, having previously received a dispatch stating that the Commissioners had accepted the proposed terms on which the conference was to take place. The Message concludes as follows:—
On the morning of the 3d, the gentlemen, Messrs. Stephens, Hunter and Campbell, came aboard of our steamer, and had an interview with the Secretary of State and myself of several hours’ duration. No question of preliminaries to the meeting was then and there made or mentioned. No other person was present. No papers were exchanged or produced, and it was in advance agreed that the conversation was to be informal and verbal merely. On my part, the whole substance of the instructions to the Secretary of State, heretofore recited, was stated and insisted upon, and nothing was said inconsistent therewith; while by the other party it was not said in any event or on any condition they ever would consent to, ”reunion, and yet they equally omitted to declare that they never would so consent. They seemed to desire a postponement of that question, and the adoption of some other course first, which, as some of them seemed to argue, might not lead to reunion, but which course we thought would amount to an indefinite postponement.’ 
‘The conference ended without result 
The foregoing, containing, as is believed, all the information sought, is respectfully submitted.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 
Executive Mansion, Feb. 10, 1865.
To the President of the Confederate States: 
SIR
SIR: Under your letter and appointment of the 8th, we proceeded to seek an informal conference with Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, upon the subject mentioned in your letter. The conference was granted, and took place on the 30th, on board a steamer anchored in Hampton Roads, where we met President Lincoln and Hon. Mr. Seward, Secretary of State of the United States. It continued or several hours, and was both full and explicit. We learned from them that the message of President Lincoln to the Congress of the United States in December last, explains clearly and distinctly his sentiments as to the terms, conditions and method of proceeding by which peace can be secured to the people, and we were not informed that they would be modified or altered to obtain that end. We understood from him that no terms or proposals of any treaty or agreement, looking to any ultimate settlement, would be entertained or made by him with the authorities of the confederate States, because that would be a recognition of their existence as a separate power, which under no circumstances would be done, and for like reasons that no such terms would be entertained by him from States separately; that no extended truce or armistice as at present advised would be granted or allowed without satisfactory assurances in advance of a complete restoration of the authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States overall places with-in the States of the Confederacy; that whatever consequences may follow from the re-establishment of that authority must be accepted, but that the individuals object to pains and penalties under the laws of the United States might rely upon a very liberal use of he power confided to him to remit those pains and Penalties, if peace be restored.
During the conference, the proposed amendments to he Constitution of the United States, adopted by Congress on the 31st ult., were brought to our notice. These amendments provide that neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except for crime, should exist within the United States, or any place within their jurisdiction, and Congress should have power to enforce this amendment by appropriate legislation. Very respectfully your obedient servants,
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, 
R. M. T. HUNTER, 
J. A. CAMPBELL.
Jeff. Davis has sent a message to the rebel Congress saying in substance that Lincoln refused an armistice of any length, refused recognition either of the Confederacy or any State composing it, refused independence, and only conceded the merciful and liberal exercise by himself of the pardoning power. During he conference he communicated the passage by Congress of the amendment to the Constitution abolishing slavery, and declared that the question was wholly removed from his control and placed beyond negotiation.
The Richmond Enquirer of the 6th says:” Submission, abolition and reconstruction were the only terms that could be got out of Lincoln and Seward by the peace Commissioners. Hence the South has only to fight.” It also says this result will have the effect to unite the people more closely and strongly than ever If, defeated and destroyed, those who survive will have nothing worse to submit to than is now demanded by the enemy.”
The Sentinel says the South has been insulted. It regards the passage of the Constitutional Amendment as an outrage, an upturning of the social institutions of the South, and robbery of its citizens. Lincoln's prepositions were that the South should lay down their arms and disperse to their homes, and he would appoint for the Confederate States Marshals, Attorneys and judges for the United States Courts; that in executing the confiscation law he would do it as leniently as possible; that he would treat neither with the Confederate States  nor any State separately; that lie will listen to nothing short of unconditional sub mission to the Constitution and the laws passed under it; that the slavery question was disposed of and not now to be discussed.
Governor Smith of Virginia calls a meeting to respond to Lincoln's answer to the rebel commissioners. The Sentinel endorses the call, and says:” Let us put our heel on Lincoln’s insolent insult, and return defiance to his menaces.
THE SPIRIT OF THE REBEL LEADERS. Mr. Jefferson Davis proclaims the tenth of March next as a day for” public fasting, humiliation, and prayer, with thanksgiving to Almighty God.” He exhorts the South to pray, in conclusion,” that the Lord of Hosts will be with our [Confederate] armies, and fight for us against our enemies, and that he will graciously take our cause into his own hand, and mercifully establish for us a lasting, just and honorable peace and independence.”."
A daily journal says truly that this proclamation is near to sacrilege. The rebel President asks Divine favor for the acts which the rebels have committed during the last four years: favor for a. conspiracy to subvert the only nation in Christendom wherein a man is permitted to” worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience;” favor for a cause which is founded upon the worst system of human oppression, in direct contravention to that” new commandment” which is the foundation of the Christian religion; favor for a cause that has drenched a nation with blood and caused sorrow to pervade every hamlet; favor for a rebellion that seeks to subvert right and build up a fabric dedicated to oppression and wrong.
WEST VIRGINIA FREE. The Constitution under which West Virginia was admitted into the Union prohibited slavery only after a term of years. Now both houses of her Legislature have concurred in the following, which becomes law immediately on the approval of the Governor:
“ Be it enacted by the Legislature of West Virginia:
1. All persons held to service or labor as slaves in this State are hereby declared free.,
2. There shall hereafter be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in this State, except in punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.”
NEGRO SOLDIERS KILLED BT GUERILLAS. A party of negro soldiers, numbering about eighty, left Camp Nelson, Ky., for Louisville, last Wednesday, with a dozen of cattle. They were attacked by fifteen guerillas, and probably made no resistance, as no attack was expected. The robbers shot them down in cold blood, and a gentleman who has visited the scene of butchery counted thirty-five dead bodies lying is and near the road. It is known that not one of the guerillas was wounded.
      Gen. Sherman set apart the South Carolina coast islands for the Georgia negroes freed by his. army. If the rebels persist in their refusal to treat, we hope the Government will set apart the whole South for the negroes or whoever else desires to settle there.—Newburyport Herald.
The New York Times says the rebel Congress man Henry S. Foote sailed for Europe on Saturday in the steamer City of Cork.
<c05>
WELL CHOSEN MOTTOBS. 
At the celebration, last month, of the anniversary of the President’s Emancipation Proclamation by the colored citizens of Philadelphia, among the numerous mottoes displayed by them were the following;-
“ I call the American war an aristocratic rebellion against democratic government.”-Richard Cobden. 
“ Oh! fear not the slave when he breaks from his chain,
 The man made a freeman grows safe in his gain.”
Frederich schiller.Schiller.
Daniel O’Connell, Father Theobald, and 60,000 other Irishmen, wrote to Irishmen in America these word:-
“Oppose slavery by all the peaceful means in your power. Join with the Abolitionists everywhere; they are the consistent advocates of liberty. Tell every man that you do not understand liberty for the white man. and slavery for the black man; and that you are for liberty for all, of every color, creed and country.”
The great emancipationists of this country: Daniel O’Connell and Abraham Lincoln.
“ There is an indissoluble union between virtue and happiness— between duty and. advantage.” Washington’s .Farewell Address.
Maryland recognizes the wisdom of the advice, and conforms to it by emancipation.
The colored race fought in the Revolution, and under Jackson, Perry, Stewart, Decatur, Bainbridge, and other heroes, against English aristocracy and tyranny; and they will always be found on the side of justice.
Maryland to her sister Southern States greeting: I would” speak unto yon, and show you these glad tidings. My bondsmen and bondswomen I have made free. Do ye likewise!”
“The Union will not be divided by Mason and Dixon’s line, or any other line. The North will never tolerate a division of territory.”—John Hickman in Congress, Dec.12, 1859.
“ The curse of our nation is almost blotted out; but let it not be said that Catholic citizens took pity on the brute, and bound its wounds, and played the part of the Good Samaritan to the monster.”—Archbishop Purcell.
“As a mere question of justice, no one can allege any right to reduce a human being to slavery. It is detestable to mind and heart. And, moreover, he  who reduces a free man to slavery is excommunicated by the Church. Slavery is the cause of all our national trouble-.”—Archbishop Purcell.
“ Emancipation was just to Ireland. Emancipation is ust to Negroes.” All praise to Daniel O'Connell, the author of the first, and to Abraham Lincoln, the author of the last.
Referring to the adoption of the Constitutional Amendment by Congress, an exchange says:— 
This result is a memorable victory far greater than any the nation has gained since it secured its independence. Amid the exciting events surrounding us caused by our efforts to maintain that independence, we cannot appreciate the successful culmination of all our labors to bring about so great a result, but it is there nevertheless, and Jan. 31, I8651865, will be regarded as the day of the nation’s deliverance from the prison-house of bondage.”O day of glory, and of 
triumph too!”
Daniel Webster was born January 18, 1782, and died October 24, 1852, aged 70 years, 9 monthsmouths and six days; Edward Everett was born April 11, 1794, and died January 15, 1865, aged 70 years, 9 months and 4 days. The difference between their ages at the time of death was therefore only two days.
 Theodore Tilton, in a recent address at Chicago, denounced, with deserved severity, the infamous Back laws of Illinois. A colored man heard him with delight. He was a fugitive from slavery, but is now an opulent merchant. He entertained Mr. Tilton at splendid banquet; everything being in the highest style of sumptuousness; even the table-cloth and bill of fare being of white satin. 
Ladies with Southern sympathies in Washington and Baltimore have a new way of” distinguishing” themselves now. Instead of wearing red and white feathers, they wear two curls over the left shoulder.
A great fire occurred in Philadelphia on the 8th inst., which destroyed 20 lives, 100 buildings, and $500,000 worth of property.
PLEDGES
To Massachusettst A. A. S. Society, at Annual Meeting,
January, 1865.
Wendell Phillips,  $150 00
George Thompson, 100 00
Mrs. Mary May, 50 00
Samuel May, Jr., 50 00
Jas. M. W. Yerrinton, 10 00
E. H. Day, Lewiston, Me., 5 00
Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam, 5 00
COLLECTIONS
By Finance Committee, Annual Meeting, January, 1865.
Eliab Wight$ $ 1 00 Robert R. Crosby 1 00
A. A. Bent 1 00 Henry Damon1 00
D. 3 00 M. M. Rogers 1 00
Wm. Willis 1 00 C. K. Whipple1 00
J. M. Aldrich 11 00 D. B. Bartlett 1 00
E. F. Eddy 1 00 H. W. Btanchard 0 50
Friend 2 00 Mrs. Brigham 100
J. B.Marvin 1 00 Mrs. Barnard 2 00
Samuel Dyer 1 00 J. L. 0 50
Miss Weston 1 00 Mrs. Daniel Mitchell 5 00
Geo. W. Simonds 0 50 T. B. Drew 1 00
Wm. Ashby 5 00 C. P. Drew 1 00
Joneph A. HowlandHowland 1 00 Richard Clapp 1 00
Mrs. H. N. Gray 1 00 T. G Elliott 2 00
Hannah B. Draper 1 00 J. Buffum 1 00
Anna T. Draper 1 00 H. B. Shaw 3 00
Charlotte A. Joy 2 00 J. Hayward 1 00
Mrs. A. W. Clapp 1 00 P. King 1 00
George Draper 1 00 W. Wilson 0 50
Mrs. Wm. Ives 2 00 R. S. Jameson 1 00
Mary Willey 1 00 L. L. O. Jameson 1 00
Katy C. 1 00 S. H. Cowing 1 00
Ruth Buffum 1 00 LaRoy Sunderland 1 00
W. W. Dutcher 2 00 George M. Rogers 1 00
R. Howland 1 00 Miss Emerson1 00
Three Ladies 3 00 Miss M. Paine 1 00
Mrs. Brown 1 00
A. W. Clapp 1 60
 E. &.E H. Merrill 1 00
A. W. Clapp 1 50 M. H. Pool 1 00
E..&. E. H. Richards2 00 Mrs. R. W. Henshaw 1 00
Silvanus Smith 1 00 L. H. Bowker 5 00
Mary L. Richmond0 50 Frederick Douglass 6 00
Sarah Ford 0 50 William 1 00
John Mitchell 1 00 William Sparrell 100
C. C. McLauthlin 1 00 C. F. S. 1 00
Melzar Sprague1 00 Edwin Thompson 1 00
Mrs. D. Brigham5 00 Lewis McLauthlin 2 00
Alex'r Wilson 1 00 Alvan & Nancy Howes 6 00
Benj. H. Smith 0 50 D. S 1 00
Austin Bearse 1 00 Abby A. Bennett 1 00
Hon. Wm. L. Reed 2 00 Edward B. Perkins 1 00
N. Curtis 100 Maria S. Page 100
H. H. Brigham 1 00 Willard Russell 1 00
T. B. Locke 1 00 Mary Clap 1 00
Mrs. R. A. Danforth 5 00 M. H. L. Cabot 1 00
George Oban 1 00 Mrs. Mary May 2 00
N. H. Whiting 2 00 Mrs. Sarah R. May 1 00
Edmund Jackson 5 00 James N. Buffum 6 00
Geo. A. Rice 0 50 Edmund Quincy 6 00
G. C. Hickok 1 00 J. T. Sargent 100
M. B. Goodrich 5 00 Mrs. J. T. Sargent 1 00
J. B. Peirce, Lynn,5 00 Samuel Barrett 10 00
Jacob Leonard 0 50 E. D. Draper5 00
Sarah A. Allen1 00
S. Shaw2 00
Mrs. Philander Shaw1 00
R. Plumer1 00
Parker Pillsbury1 00
H. A. Foster2 00
Mrs. Loring1 00
Joseph M. 1 00
E. Jones0 50
E. M. Powell1.00
Mrs. Sarah J. Nowell 2.00
A. C. Nowell 1.00
F. H. Henshaw1.00
D. B. Morey1 00
Friend 5, Friend 27 00
Robert R. Crosby 1 00
Henry Damon 1 00
M. M. Rogers 1 00
C. K. Whipple 1 00
D. B. Bartlett 1 00
H. W. Blanchard 0 50
Mrs. Brigham 1 00
Mrs. Barnard 2 00
J. L. 0 50
Mrs. Daniel Mitchell 5 00
T. B. Drew 1 00
C. P. Drew 1 00
Richard Clapp 1 00
T. G. Elliott 1 00
J. Buffum 1 00
H. B. Shaw 3 00
J. Hayward 100
P. King 1 00
W. Wilson 0 50
R. S. Jameson 1 00
L. L. O. Jameson 1 00
S. H. Cowing 1 00
LaRoy Sunderland 1 00
George M. Rogers 1 00
Miss Emerson 1 00
Miss M. Paine 1 00
E. H. Merrill 1 00
M. H. Pool 1 00B. C. 0 25
Mrs. R. W. Henshaw 1 00
L. H. Bowker 5 00
Frederick Douglass 5 00
William—— 1 00
William Sparred 1 00
C. F. S. 1 00
Edwin Thompson 1 00
Lewis MeLauthlin 2 00
Alvan & Nancy Howes 6 00
D. S—— 1 00
Abby A. Bennett 1 00
Edward B. Perkins 1 00
Maria S. Page 1 00
Willard Russell 1 00
Mary Clap 1 00
M. H. L. Cabot 1 00 
Mrs. Mary May 2 00
Mrs. Sarah R. May1 00
James N. Buffum 5 00
Edmund Quincy 5 00
J. T. Sargent 1 00
Mrs. J. T. Sargent 1 00
Samuel Barrett 10 00
E. D. Draper 5 00
E. B. Chace 1 00
S. O. Chace 1 00
Lillie B. Chace 1 00
Samuel May, Jr., 5 00
Friend 35, Friend 2 7 00
E. Allen 0 25
M. B. C. 0 25
Mary C. Sawyer 1 00
J. Sawyer 2 00
E. A. Spring 1 00
H. Willey 1 00
Mrs. S. S. Russell 5 00
W. L. Garrison 1 00
Cornelius Cowing 1 00
“Friends,” in various 
 sums., 27 25
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
TREASUURER’S REPORT
DR.
1864, 
Jan. 1, For balance, $267 74
Samuel May, Jr., for salary and expenses as
General Agent, 278 29
Expenses of Annual Meeting in 1864, 158 25
Rent of office one year, 400 00
R. F. Wallcut, salary as Depository Agent, 639 75
J. M. W. Yerrinton, for reporting,42 00
Expenses of New England Anti-Slavery Convention19688
Office boy, 130 00
C. C. Burleigh, attending Convention, 5 40
Total, $2112 81
CR.
Jan, 28. By collections at Annual Meeting,. $407 18
By collections at“ N. E. Convention, 408 89
By“ bequest of Mary T. Tidmarah,40000
Pledges“ pledges, donations, &c.,896 79
Total, $2112 81
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.<W>.
Jan. 2, 1865. I have examined the accounts of Edmund Jackson, as Treasurer ifof the Mass. A. S. Society for the year 1864, and findnod the same correctly cast and propertyproperly vouched —and the above abstract is correct. 
W M. I. BOWDITCH, Auditor.
<c06>
THIRD EDITION,
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready. In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS, it contains;: 
United States Government, Ministers, .&c.
Senators and Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIXth Congress, so for as chosen.
Laws passed at the last Session of Congress. 
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, . &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born .People.
Election Return, for President, Government, Congressmen,
&c, in 1864, compared with the Presidential in Vote 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures 
meet, Time of State Elections.
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1854, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, 
Free and Slave, with percentage, &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed;:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. New York.
MARRIED-In Fairlee, (Vt.) 7th inst., by Rev.. Mr. McAllister, Mr. FRANK M. YERRINTON, of Boston, to Miss. NELLIE M., eldest daughter of the late Calvin S. Waterman, Esq., of the former place.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRESS
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun country, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consist of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residence on either side of the lake. No low maraby grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm Houses, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is  this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City it one of the best markets in the State, and is  120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the  Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy., All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and  timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, far n utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at , Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.
Ayer’s Cheery Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis., Incipient Consumption and for the relief of Consumption Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
So wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation;: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies-dies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends, by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it  ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an alterative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT.SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER& CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Jan. 6. 2m.
MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction.
C. H. BRAINARD, publisher.
Ecston, Dec. 20 1864. 
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
Would inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to 
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. 
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. he is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any parts of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1,2,3, and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM, 
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. Dec.1.
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
ORRAWA, La  sale co., Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collection claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
 WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston. 
A.L.PAINN, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do,.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago,, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D.C. 
Sept. 12

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
MY KING.
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
If my soul has a king, it knows well where to find him, 
Though Fate guards the secret with vigilant care;
And I patiently wait with the crown Love has twined him;
God tells me the place, and I know he is there;
Where Liberty’s eagle
From Tyranny’s beagle
Has torn out the hearts, I shall find him—my king.
He wears not a badge upon bosom or shoulder,
As sign of distinction; but angels can see,
Throughout army and host, not an arm can strike bolder,
For Country, and Justice, and Freedom, than he;
Not choosing his mission
For gain or position,
He counts with our saviors, that private—my king.
And he thinks every foot is the foot of a brother,
That follows the light of the Federal stars;
Though darker the brow or the race is another,
The manhood’s proved under the red and white bars;
“Who bears well a rifle
Rebellion to stifle,
Is brother and man,” says the voice of my king.
His strong tawny hand, labor-hardened, is royal;
Lip, touch with thy honey and velvet, his palm;
The pulse ’neath his blue coat is steadily loyal;
Oh, Love in my breast, save thy odor and balm!
With thy wealth clothe and cover
My grand hero-lover!
Bring out thy hid treasures, anoint him my king!
His feet will not halt on the wearisome marches,
Nor falter from duty, nor loiter for rest;
But forward, till Liberty’s bow overarches
Columbia’s soil from the east to the west;
O, soldier-feet speeding,
Though shoeless and bleeding,
I bow to thy footprint,—I kneel to my king.
Forget not, my soul, in thy pure adoration,
That brave ones will perish, and heroes must fall;
‘Tis true blood alone that can ransom the nation,
And tranquillize Justice for Africa’s thrall;
For the crimson that’s given
Is demanded by Heaven:
O, send thy Samaritans, God, to my king!
Seek, heavenly Commission, the wounded and dying,
Where Liberty’s vanguard stands firm as a rock;
Where the old banner waves, red Rebellion defying,
And our Eagle soars calm o’er the fierce battle shock:
Oh, seek and recover
My own hero-lover!
Thou blessed Evangel, restore me my king!

For the Liberator.
SLAVERY’S DEATH-KNELL
F 2, <illegible>
BY LATY CARLISLE
Die, die, thou monster! Dost not hear,
On every breeze's swell,
How, tolled by glad hands joyfully,
Rings forth thy passing knell!
Thy hand, thou fiend, was raised to strike
One last and deadly blow;
To lay, ’neath mad rebellion's knife,
Our young Republic low!
Oh! wild and fierce the struggle rose!
Free blood like rain was poured;
Yet in that blinding strife few saw
What hand upraised the sword.
At last, by cannon’s murderous glare,
And red shell's fearful shine,
Grown watchful through defeat, men saw
Th’ assassin’s hand was thine.
So they have tracked thee to thy den,
Where thou dost trembling lie—
The righteous sentence hath gone forth,
Thou, hell-born wretch, must die!
Five years ago, our helpless hands
Wrung with despairing cry,
We saw thy victims turn to us
The dying, pleading eye.
Ye martyred saints! look earthward now,
Lean from your blessed skies!
Is not the light that floods yon heaven
The joy-light of your eyes?
Ye new-freed millions! God’s hand frees,
Not earthly power or might;
Uplift your foreheads, glorified
With conscious Freedom’s light!
And you, ye miscreants of the North,
So lost to sense of shame,
Who still would wield the lash, and make
This freedom but a name-
Lift that new yoke your hands have forged,
Put down your greed of pelf,
And let the Freedman “organize”
His labor for himself!
Seek not to guard his rights, nor prop
What best can stand alone,
But put a ballot in his hand,
And let him guard his own!
So shall Virginia’s purple peaks
To Vermont’s mountains tell
How not in vain, by rock and flood,
New England’s heroes fell.
So shall our freedom, root-fast here,
Bear fruit in Southern sun;
And our fair land, from strand to strand,
Be Heaven on Earth begun.
Boston, 1865.

MISSOURI AND NEW YORK.
“Free Missouri greets you!”—[F. C. FLETCHER, Gov.
“God bless Free Missouri!"—[R. E. FENTON.
Listen! ye, whom Fortune raiseth
To the hills where Honor blaseth;
Listen! ye, whose lowlier station
Waits and works in long probation;
‘Tis not man nor Fate that giveth;
For the Lord our God yet liveth!
Sunbeams, through the dust of trial,
Point the hour on Victory’s dial;
Crucibled from dross and ashes,
Still the crown of triumph flashes;
And from Midnight’s womb of sorrow
Comes the new-born king—“To-Morrow!”
Out of Christmas days benignant,
O’er the New Year sweetly regnant;
Out of Slavery’s tomb emergent,
Out of Slavery’s death resurgent,
LIBERTY her shackles rendeth—
LIBERTY, like Christ, ascendeth!
O! my Heart! look up and hearken!
Let no doubt thy gladness darken!—
Hear that Voice, on lightning’s pinion,
Thrill and fill the soul’s dominion,
And with gospel grand and certain,
Lift and rift the Future’s curtain!
Listen, Land of mine, whose borders
Make the giant Lakes their warders!
Thou whose freeborn thunder surges
From Niagara’s awful verges!
List, O, list ! these words of fire—
Thou, whose watchword still is “Higher!”
Oft, full oft, in love, low pleading,
Thou hast prayed for Freedom bleeding;
Prayed the South with accents ruthful,
Prayed the South with friendship truthful;
Now she answers-now she meets you
Listen; “FREE MISSOURI CREETS YOU”!
O! that Voice, on wings of lightning,
All the glorious Future brightening;
O! that Voice, with virgin yearning
Seeking Love’s divine returning;
<c02>
Soaring up, from shackles riven,
To the great free Northern Heaven!
And, from large imperial bosom,
Rich with Freedom’s fruit and blossom,
Brave New York, whose bannered story
Climbs “Excelsior” hills of glory,
Lifts her Voice, o'er battle’s fury,
Shouting, “GOD BLESS FREE MISSOURI!”
South to North, with Freedom’s greeting,
North to South her prayers repeating;
From the Hudson’s silvery sources,
From the deep Missouri’s courses,
Freedom’s tides, at ocean’s portal
Mingling life and strength immortal!
Mingling, as in old caressings,
Mutual prayers and mutual blessings;
Northern brother, Southern sister,
Twined in FREEDOM’S arms, have kissed her;
Northern sister –Southern-brother—
God be praised! They find their MOTHER!

Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. M. F. CONWAY,
Delivered at the Banquet in Honor of Senator
Lane, at Leavenworth, Kansas,
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
I rejoice to be here on this festive occasion to unite with you in this celebration of a great triumph.
I see around me many of the old familiar faces—many of the pioneers of freedom—the men of '56- with whom I first became acquainted ten years ago, and together with whom I passed through that grand struggle for free institutions which here took place-a struggle, which, in its consequences, has revolutionized the nation, changed the destinies of the Continent, and forever identified the name of Kansas with the cause of American progress. Gladly do I embrace the opportunity to renew that old communion of thought and feeling which was before so strong a bond between us.
We are here to do especial honor to our distinguished and most able Senator, General Lane, I whom the Legislature has again commissioned to represent the State in the Senate of the United States.
I thank you for the privilege of being present to render my respects to one who is so signally deserving the esteem and gratitude of the people of Kansas.
But happy as I am to be with you on account of the exciting reminiscences which this occasion revives, and the opportunity it affords of doing homage to an eminent public servant, my gratification is exceedingly enhanced by being invited to respond to the sentiment proposed in honor of His Excellency, the President of the United States.
To be President of the United States is in my judgment, Mr. President, the greatest distinction that can be conferred on any individual of the human race. To be the one of twenty millions chosen by free suffrage to preside over the destinies of the leading power of the American Continent implies a character for native consideration and worth beyond that of any Prince or Potentate on earth.
The present incumbent of this high station is a man of the people. No higher tribute can be paid to his eminent merit than that recently rendered by his countrymen in refusing to permit him to retire from his office at the end of his official term. It is safe to say that the reelection of Mr. Lincoln was due entirely to popular favor, and not in any degree to political artifice. The aspiring politicians were against Mr. Lincoln, but the virtuous masses were for him. In the dangers which surrounded the country, there were none beside to whose wisdom and virtue they were willing to confide (over his) the control of the national destinies. This of itself speaks a praise which only the most commanding qualities could elicit.
The first thing which strikes us in contemplating the character of the President is the quality which I have observed to belong to all truly great men, that of simplicity. Mr. Lincoln is a perfectly natural man. This is why he has always been called “Honest Abe.” People see that he has no pretension—no ostentation. He proposes to take credit for nothing which does not belong to him. “Great in his simplicity as kings are little in their grandeur.” I have seen, in my time, not a few of those whom the world calls great; and I find that this is the best test by which to distinguish the genuine from the spurious article. While sufficiently observant of the conventionalities of society, Mr. Lincoln is not a man of forms or ceremonies. He despises shams. He clothes himself with no mock dignity; plays no fantastic tricks. He is a plain man, like Washington, or Franklin, or Jackson. He believes in realities, being himself a reality; and in his contact and dealing with others, handles himself as if conscious of being one of the elementary forces of nature.
The President's humor is one of the leading traits of his character. He has an instinctive kindness of heart, and sees the ludicrous side of human nature, not with the eye of a cynic but with the genial sympathy of a man and a brother. His extraordinary propensity to tell funny stories is but an indication of a large and charitable nature, endowed with a keen insight into motives, and not distressed so much as amused at the short-comings of his fellow-men.
The next quality which seems to me most distinguishes our illustrious Chief Magistrate is his magnanimity. I believe Mr. Lincoln to be less affected by low and narrow sentiments than any man in America. He hates nobody, nor does he permit himself to be prejudiced against a political opponent. His whole public life is proof of this lofty trait. It will be remembered how he refused to resort to the usual chicanery of politics in his contest with Judge Trumbull, for the Senate in 1855; and withdrew his name under circumstances which extorted praise even from his enemies. I do not believe he ever said anything with more sincerity than that his gratification at his reelection was not enhanced by the reflection that others were suffering the mortification of defeat. Intensely as he has been assailed, vilified, and ridiculed, by the rebel leaders and their newspaper press, both at home and abroad, I am satisfied that even Jeff. Davis himself, were he a tried and convicted traitor, would rely upon Mr. Lincoln's magnanimity for any consideration and clemency which justice would permit to be exercised in his behalf.
With regard to he President’s ability as a statesman, there is much less difference of opinion now than formerly. It was quite common at the beginning of his administration to hear him described (notwithstanding his masterly canvass against Douglas in 1856,) as a man of second-rate powers. It was thought by gentlemen in the Eastern cities— collegians, savants and the like—to be impossible for one who had passed his whole life at the Bar of a small town in the West to have any special ability for anything. It is hardly necessary to say that this opinion is not as prevalent now as it was. The President is recognized by all these fine gentlemen —literati, exquisites, professors of law, divinity, &c., to be a person of some knowledge of affairs, and no little skill in running a Government. He played out all the aspirants for the presidential succession with a dexterity and grace delightful to behold; and in writing his State papers has given an example to the scholars and rhetoricians who set themselves up for statesmen, by which they will do well to profit. In short, it is now pretty generally conceded that Mr. Lincoln, as President of the United States, entirely “fills the bill.”
You will remember, no doubt, that as your Representative in the 37th Congress, I deemed it my duty to dissent from the earlier war policy of Mr. Lincoln's Administration. I avail myself of this occasion to say, what I said at the time, and what I have often said since, that this action of mine was dictated by no ill-feeling towards the President, by no want of confidence in his ability or integrity, by no diminution of that high respect for his magnanimous character which I had always entertained.
In my discussion of the views and policy of the President, my motive was that of the friendly agitator, not of the hostile partizan. My intention was to operate on the minds of the people, not to incite opposition to the administration in order to defeat it.
It has always been the view of the President that he is but the instrument of the national will; and that whatever may be his own predilections or wishes, with regard to either men or measures, he is not at liberty to place them above or against the sentiment of the country.
The paramount object of the President was to restore the Union—the fundamental proposition of his system, that the Union was incapable of being broken.
<c03>
I inclined, however, to a different idea. I was in favor of liberating the nation from the domination of slaveholders—Union or no Union. This was my own individual sentiment, and I believed it to be also the sentiment of Kansas.
The President sought the destruction of slavery; but above this he sought the restoration of the Union.
I desired the restoration of the Union, but above this I sought the destruction of slavery.
Mr. Lincoln would have secured the Union in any event; I would have preferred to secure freedom in any event.
It was manifest, however, that in these views the sentiment of the country was with the President, and not with me; but knowing as I did the President's respect for the will of the people, my hope was to assist in developing a public sentiment, which, while demanding, would authorize the most radical measures against a return of the slaveholders (as such) to their former power in the Union.
In doing so, however, I was inspired by no factious or inimical spirit towards the President or any of his advisers, but solely by a conscientious conviction of public duty. This issue, however, has long since passed away, and forever. We are called upon to face new responsibilities.
The President, in his sublime discretion, has wrought out for us a deliverance from slavery through pre-existing forms. He has maintained the integrity of our constitutional system, but has equally assured us against the “Union as it was.” The Slave Power is annihilated. Union and Liberty are no longer in conflict, but made one and inseparable, now and forever. Our country is regenerated. It is established upon the immutable foundation of justice. To the patriotic imagination the future looms up in glorious outlines. Our country's destiny is onward. It is to control the American continent to the purposes of a redeemed and regenerated humanity. This is our sublime mission.
To Abraham Lincoln let us look in the future with a confidence springing from the teachings of the past. Let us give him all the strength which our cordial and united support can inspire.

THE BLACK LAWS.
Illinois has repealed her black laws, and indeed she could hardly help wiping the stain from her face when her neighbor Missouri was lifting her whole body out of the slough. The black laws of Illinois, though Illinois is a free State, were as much a part of the code of slavery as any slave law of Arkansas or Mississippi; for they were the work of what was called the Democratic party, and that party was the minister of slavery. In Illinois, for instance, all colored persons were presumed to be slaves unless they could prove themselves to be free; in other words, were held to be guilty, until they proved their innocence; thus directly reversing the first humane maxim of the common law. By another act, if any negro or mulatto came into the State and staid ten days, he was to be fined fifty dollars, and sold indefinitely to pay the fine.
We read such things incredulously, in the light of to-day. The wicked folly of selecting for outrage a special class of the population, and that class the most innocent and defenseless, is so like a caprice of Ashantee society, or a measure of Patagonian statesmanship, that it is quite impossible to believe that it was tolerated in the great, prosperous, and enlightened State of Illinois. It explains the curiously inhuman and heartless tone of Mr. Douglas in speaking of the colored race. He lived in the midst of this senseless and fierce prejudice, and he rose by pandering to it.
The black laws of Illinois were another proof of the fearful, demoralization which slavery had wrought in this country, and upon which it counted for easy success in its rebellion. When slavery saw that Pierce and Buchanan, too successive Presidents, were its most object tools; when it saw every Northern city ready to take by the throat any man who fiercely denounced it; when it saw even in Boston a rich merchant and noted citizen named Fay, with the Mayor of the city, turning a meeting for condemnation of slavery into the street; when it read such laws as these of Illinois; when it saw the city of New York cringing beneath its frown and fawning upon its contemptuous smile, how could it help believing that Franklin Pierce wrote the truth to Jefferson Davis when he said that blood would flow this side of Mason And Dixon's line rather than the other, and suppose with Robert Toombs that any man could drink all the blood that would be shed in the war?
Now that Illinois has repealed her black laws, is it too much to hope that New York will do the same thing? The Constitution of the State allows colored citizens to vote, provided they have lived twice as long in the State and county, and paid twice as much tax as any other voter. The other voters may be ignorant and brutal sots, who are nuisances and pests in any country, and these may be intelligent, industrious, thrifty, valuable citizens; but the Constitution of New York, enslaved by the same mean and inhuman prejudice which dictated the black laws of Illinois, declares that ignorance and brutality are politically preferable to intelligence and thrift.
If intelligence is to be the condition of active citizenship, it is a test which every body can understand, and most people will approve. But to make it dependent upon complexion is as wise as to rest it upon the color of the hair or the breadth of the shoulders. The monstrous subjection of this country to the prejudice against color is not, as many who are under its influence suppose, “a natural instinct;” it is only the natural result of a system which arbitrarily and forcibly makes color the sign of hopeless servitude. If red-haired men or men over six feet in height were enslaved and embruted for centuries, there would be exactly the same “natural aversion” to them which is gravely alleged by many otherwise sensible people against the colored race.
Missouri has emancipated herself; Illinois has thrown off her black laws. Suppose that sensible men and women now emancipate themselves from the black law of a most cruel and senseless prejudice.—Harper's Weekly.

THE DEATH OF A BAD MAN.
“Say nothing except good of the dead,” is a maxim which in ordinary times and concerning ordinary men may be well enough, but it does not apply to Sterling Price.
When a man like him prostitutes great ability and a wide influence to the injury of his fellow-men, his name and his example deserve to be held up to public execration. Probably to no one cause are the woes of Missouri more directly traceable than to this man. He had great influence with the people of this State. His name was a power among them. Had he remained true and loyal to his State and country, the combined influence of other prominent secessionists would have been but little felt. But in an evil hour, seduced by a bad ambition, he raised his hand against his country, put himself at the head of the perjured crew who were madly bent upon rushing to ruin, and became a leader among traitors. Thenceforth all his efforts were turned to the destruction of the people of his own State. He let loose upon them every year the murderous guerrilla and the bloody bushwhacker. The leaders of these outlaws acted under commissions bearing the sign-manuel of Stirling Price. Time and again he invaded the State with hungry hordes of desperadoes, spreading desolation and distress in his track. Death overtook him just returned from the last of these raids—one in which he had linked himself with the worst and most brutal guerrillas, and had made himself a participating criminal in their bloody and cruel deeds. As the fruit of his wicked career, Sterling Price could look upon this State desolated and ravaged by a cruel war He could behold its once happy homes blotted out by the torch of the incendiary, its fertile fields wasted and abandoned, its flourishing villages sacked and destroyed, thousands of its citizens brought to violent and premature deaths, and the cry of the widow and orphan rising to Heaven against him from every neighborhood in the State. What had Missouri and her people done to deserve this at the hands of her recreant son? Nothing, except to remain true and loyal to the government of their choice—a government which had been to them a rich and perpetual blessing.
We have no regrets to express at the death of such a man, —no words to soften the indignant condemnation resting upon him at the hands of every honest soul.
The State will breathe freer now that he has gone. Men will rejoice as at the staying of a pestilence. His memory will be execrated, and history will rescue his name from oblivion, only as she does that of other notoriously infamous men, to hold it up to the contumely of coming ages.
<c04>
TRIBUTE TO EDWARD EVERETT.
Extract from a discriminating and an appropriate Discourse entitled “A MEMORIAL OF EDWARD EVERETT,” preached in Dorchester, (Mass.) by NATHANIEL HALL:—
But while honor is due for the mere cultivation, in itself considered, of faculty and gift, much more is it for their exercise in behalf of high and worthy ends. Mr. Everett's career eminently demands of us this greater honor. It has been an almost unbroken term of devoted public service. Some of the dearest interests of the community, some of the highest concernments of State, some of the noblest measures of philanthropy and patriotism, stand in incalculable indebtedness, not more to his persuasive oratory than to his wealth and profoundness of acquisition, his habitual and conscientious thoroughness of investigation, his patient and self-devoting industry. What various offices has he filled! We might almost ask what important office has he not filled? And with what distinguished ability! What enthusiasms of sentiment have been aroused by his appeals! What new and charmful interest imparted, by his presentation and advocacy of them, to themes historical, biographical, literary political; belonging to the domain of letters and of affairs; addressed to men of thought and of action, to the scholar and the laborer! No idler was he in this world-field; no trifler with his great and shining powers. Amidst the thronging instances of perverted talents, of desecrated genius, he stands in glorious contrast, stands as a grand incitement. In order to render due honor to this fact of his career, there is need that we appreciate the peculiar temptations which beset the possessors of brilliant and commanding gifts; which beset him, there is reason to believe, in some of their forms, with peculiar force. His love of approval and applause was a marked tendency of his nature; a love fostered and fed from early boyhood by largest measures of what it coveted. Few, probably, have lived more continually in an atmosphere of adulation. It could have been by no common strength that he rose above its snares and debilitations, and kept so greatly his manhood. And if not wholly, in certain instances, as some may think, let this which has been named, together with a natural conservatism, a constitutional timidity, a peculiar sensitiveness, and the influence of circumstances whose nature and force we may not know, —let these temper the judgment they may not wholly reverse. His honor is not that of a reformer. His place is not in that martyr-line, shining through the mists of ages, and setting a throb the heart of generations. He was not one to lead a “forlorn hope;” to do lonely battle against popular wrongs and abuses; to confront the aroused passions and prejudices of a community. His nature had not the elements for this as others have. He was shrinkingly averse from contention and opposition. He was a man for halcyon days. The very style of his oratory was adapted to such. Less the language of bold invective than of winning persuasion his lips loved, his heart prompted. He was the barque, of wondrous perfectness and grace, nor less of high utility; passing, with costliest freight, from point to point of the shores it hugs, making each port and inlet glad by the beauty of its presence and the blessing of its gifts; this, rather than the “man-of-war,” ploughing, as if in joy, the stormy seas, and belching thunders on opposing foes. And yet who of us can ever forget, what American heart can ever regard but with admiration and gratitude, the heroic nobleness with which he threw himself into our holy struggle; the efficient, priceless services he rendered the nation's cause? It was a grand moral spectacle, before which all else in the past than that of which it was the fitting crown may well be forgot, —that voluntary coming forth from his retirement, which age, it may be supposed, had made desirable to him, and—with a strength and glow of intellect, an eloquence and force of utterance, unsurpassed in his palmiest days; breaking away from party ties and associations; heedless of whatever charges of inconsistency with his political past might be preferred against him; heedless of every thing but the perils of his struggling country—giving himself, mind and soul, in efforts for her salvation; nor resting there from till he rested in death. Fortunate for his country, fortunate for him, that he lived to see these years of war; lived to gather on them new and richer harvests of renown; to have twined for him, amidst their stormy sweep, wreaths of benediction outvying all tributes of the past,—wreaths that shall hang perennial on his tomb. Fortunate life,—full of action, full of service, full of honor, full of varied and brilliant and beneficent achievement; closed before faculty gave sign of wane, while its evening was wearing scarcely less than the splendors of its noon; and crowned with a self-devoting patriotism, ay, and with a humanity, as beautiful, —giving the last plea of his eloquent lips for those, who, though their attitude had been that of foes, were in suffering and want; renewing, in that last public act, the exercise, in its worthiest spirit, of his earliest calling; and—making Faneuil Hall his church, and its rostrum his pulpit, and his text, “If thine enemy hunger, feed him”- preaching then and there, unconsciously but blessedly, his “farewell” to the world; closing his course beneath the sway and the interests of that “charity” which is more than all knowledge, and all faith, and all gifts of intellect, and all deeds of valor.

THE CASE OF MISS HARRIS.
The case of Miss Harris, who killed Mr. Burroughs in Washington on Monday last, for an alleged breach of promise of marriage, involves certain principles of considerable importance to society and civilization. Miss Harris is described by the local reporters in the most lively and particular manner, as being of “good figure, rather slight, with a well-formed head, dark hazel eye, fine black hair cut short and worn in curls—naturally intelligent, with a highly sensitive organization,” and only nineteen years of age, though, we are told, she appears to be a few years older. Of Mr. Burroughs, whom this fascinating creature has killed, we are in like style informed that he was a “gentleman of unblemished morals, of the highest honor, of remarkably fine form, ”thirty-five years of age, and only a few months married. Immediately after having shot Mr. Burroughs in the Treasury Building, Miss Harris stated, and again two days afterward reiterated the statement, that he “had not seduced her,” that he “had done her no harm,” and she exclaimed with emphasis, “As God is my witness, I am virtuous!” In the personal statement she made after her arrest and committal, she stated that her sole reason for the bloody deed of Monday was, that Mr. Burroughs had broken a promise he had once made to marry her, and had married another woman. The rebutting evidence on this point is found in a statement made by some of the friends of the deceased in Washington, that he had frequently told Miss Harris that he “could not reciprocate her attachment,” that he “could not marry her,” and that upon one occasion, when Mr. Burroughs mentioned to Miss Harris the subject of his marriage, she told him she was engaged to a Mr. Devlin.
But whichever of these statements may be credited, the fact remains that the reason given by Miss Harris for her act of homicide was, that Mr. Burroughs had broken a promise of marriage.
Now, admitting for the sake of argument that this is true, the question arises how the whole matter is to be regarded, how the courts are to treat such cases, what are to be the verdict and the practice of society in the premises? May a woman, who has by any means been led to understand or fancy that a man intends to marry her, kill that man with impunity, if for any cause he do not marry her? And, in like manner, and on the same principle, may a man kill a woman who fails to keep a promise she may have made to wed him? Are jilted lovers of either sex to have the delightful privilege of mutual butchery at will or convenience?
We suppose there are few men who have arrived at the age of thirty, without having at some time or other given at least a half, dozen of Eve's daughters an idea that he might possibly marry them—without having murmured soft things which the fair creatures construed into protestations of devotion—without perhaps having been even so weak or indiscreet as to utter some word which an eager listener might distort into a promise that she might yet be wholly, wholly his. In like manner, there is no good-looking girl of twenty summers who has not, by word or by smile, by billing or by cooling, given each one of at least a score of beaux the impression that she would yet confer on him infinite felicity by making him the sharer of her crinoline. This is certainly a most unhappy characteristic of gushing and youthful hearts, and deserves to be severely frowned upon and reprehended by all devout people of both sexes and of all ages, over forty; but yet we know it has been so from the beginning, and we greatly fear it will be so to the end of time—or at least until the arrival of Dr. Cumming’s millennium.
Now, while every man of thirty and every woman
<c05>
of twenty know these things to be so, all men and I women of forty know how often and how sadly the budding hope becomes wilted, the expectation is disappointed, the promise, expressed or implied, is broken. This, too, is a grievous and quite painful matter; but the first poet sang it; and every poet and, poetess since the first has continued the strain; and I we fear that the last wail of the last singer will be a wail of blighted love.
Now, to return to the question involved: May a woman or a man (for both sexes must here be sternly placed on the same footing) to whom a promise or a prospect of marriage has been held out, kill, of his or her own motion, the party who fails to come to terms or to time? May she or he lay in wait with pistol or knife, and deliberately proceed to butcher the first dear one who has been, or is imagined to be, guilty of the wrong?
There is no doubt that a portion of the American people believe that this is a right that belongs to at least one of the sexes. The lavish sympathy that has been bestowed upon Miss Harris, in Washington, the large number of grave Senators and eminent persons who rushed to her cell to condole with her in misfortune, the eagerness of distinguished counsel to take up her defence gratuitously, and the sentimentalism of the local press while giving the details—all show that in this case, as in so many others, there is an abstract justification of deeds of this kind in women, apart altogether from the merits of the individual case; for in the instance now under notice, there has been no proof whatever of Mr. Burroughs ever having made the promise which Miss Harris alleges he Broke.
We imagine, however, that the principle is one whose practice by either sex is not apt to be conducive of the highest virtue, or the highest beauty, in women or men, or in the relations of the one to the other. If Miss Harris may be excused for killing Mr. Burroughs because he broke faith, then surely there would be palliation for the heart-broken widow in taking revenge, even unto death, upon the murderess who bereaved her of the husband she loved; and if on such a pretext as is put forth by Miss Harris, the law and public sentiment justify her deed, we may conclude that the sooner all and every law on such matters is declared null, and men and women are reverted to the original condition of self-defence and personal vengeance, the quicker shall we arrive at a state of things which must speedily prove its own cure.—New York Weekly Review.

PERSONAL AND POLITICAL RIGHTS,
The lecture of Frederick Douglass, at Mechanic Hall, on Wednesday evening, was, as we have before remarked, a wonderful exhibition of the genius and oratorical power of one belonging to a race which has been kept in bondage in this county, on the ground, among other reasons which are alleged, that it is so far inferior to the whites as to be incapable of rising to a dignity above that of servile labor. While many of the reasonings of Mr. Douglass were put with remarkable force, and some of his descriptions—like that, for instance, of the various elements which enter into the American body politic, as seen during a day spent at the polls in New York city—exhibited great graphic power and keen application of thoughtful observations, there was, nevertheless, much in the lecture that would hardly be commended as a correct statement of the case. This may readily be pardoned, in the minds of white men who dissent, from the fact that the speaker spoke from a peculiar standpoint, having once been a fugitive slave himself, and claiming to speak as one, and in behalf of an oppressed race.
Mr. Douglass quite naturally shares the sentiments on the various phases of the negro question which, upon every conceivable occasion, are put forth as the single idea of Wendell Phillips, and both find themselves now somewhat at variance with Mr. Garrison, whose anti-slavery and even abolition record is quite as good as that of either of them. The set of men represented by the two former make no allowance, apparently, for the existing condition of. things, while the men represented by the latter set standing in the way of the immediate elevation of the race in whose behalf it is their pleasure to labor, many drawbacks and hindrances for which stern and uncontrollable circumstances are alone responsible. There is the labor system of Louisiana, inaugurated by Gen. Banks, which was vehemently attacked by Mr. Douglass as a system of serfdom little or no better than slavery itself. All the negro needs, he says, is to be let alone. That will do more for the good of the race than your money or material aid. Now we do not undertake to possess the requisite knowledge of all the facts to defend the particular system of Gen. Banks in all its details. Neither would we undertake to deny that if peace could be suddenly restored, plantations be cultivated as systematically as be-fore the war, and all the channels of trade and traffic be successfully re-opened, —that both the Negro and the planter would flourish better under an entirely and undisputably free system of labor than under the slave system which has heretofore prevailed. But this is not now the state of things, and will not be for some time to come. The South is in a chaotic state. Large numbers of the able-bodied male blacks are in the army, and large numbers of negro women and children and men, incapacitated for labor, do require looking after, and some degree of tutelage. They cannot, if left alone, subject, in many cases, to visits, first from one army and then from another, flourish and improve as Mr. Douglass and Mr. Phillips suppose. They need direction, and assistance, and no doubt must, in many cases, he required to conform to certain systems or rules to be continued till the success of our arms conquers not only the enemy, but this necessity also. We do not believe that all our freedmen's aid movements could be dispensed with by either the simple letting alone of the negro or even an empty declaration of equality, which, from the very nature of the case, cannot exist in fact for some time to come. If the negro can flourish if left to himself entirely, in the present condition of things, he can certainly do more than the whites themselves, for whom, here in Massachusetts, it has been found necessary, in the single instance of East Tennessee, to raise one hundred thousand dollars, besides making similar efforts in behalf of white citizens of Savannah.
The disposition to criticise Gen. Sherman, also, for not allowing a hundred thousand negroes to follow in his wake, is still another point in Mr. Douglass’s considerations. Gen. Sherman’s object was to conquer rebel forces and strongholds. Whatever tends to the accomplishment of this military work causes the rebellion to reel and totter, and slavery with it. Whatever tends to defeat this military purpose strengthens rebellion, and rivets the shackles of the slave more strongly than ever. Could any General of sense or success allow such a train of blacks or even white dependents to follow him, and thus besome an encumbrance to his plans?
Mr. Douglass is of the opinion that there is an ignorant class of men in New York city who are not fit to vote; and he is right. He would exclude them by the test of a constitutional requirement that they be able to read the Constitution of the country. That test would exclude the whole class of Southern blacks in favor of whose enfranchisement he argues. But equality is what he asks for, and he would probably say, “Apply the same rule to the whites also and I will not object—the negroes would all learn to read in a few years.” Then his actual voting-day for the negro would be a few years distant, even if immediate provision for their enfranchisement should be made, subject to the above restriction, applied to all alike. If this is his position, why does he find fault with Mr. Garrison for “basking in the sunlight” of what has already been brought about, and saying that it is not to be expected that everything is to be accomplished at once?
Great allowance, as we said before, must be made for the position which Mr. Douglass occupies. But the disposition to watch with a jealous eye and un-fairly criticise much in reference to the negroes that could not well be otherwise, is not confined to those who occupy his standpoint. However desirable and commendable may be all the efforts to promote real equality before the law, these efforts cannot at once bring about the desired attainment in point of tact. There may be room for improvement in government policy, in questions of compensation, and the like, but to say that either Southern negroes or whites are above all interference, aid and direction, is, we think, hardly warranted by the facts; and it is neither right nor just to charge the government or its agents with a love for, or desire to perpetuate slavery, simply because their tutelage does not commend itself to our hasty and distant judgment. Slavery is surely doomed as a result of this conflict, and the ultimate elevation of the slaves to a higher position is a necessity which must follow—regulating itself just as surely as do those social questions, as between blacks and whites, which constitute so serious a bugbear to many minds, and which Mr. Douglass so effectually disposed of.—Salem Gazette.
<c06>
COLORED PERSONS IN THE CITY PASSENGER CARS.
To the Editor of the Philadelphia: Press:
SIR: There seems now to be but one opinion as to the practise of ejecting indiscriminately all persons of color from our city cars. Judge Allisen undoubtedly spoke the sentiments of the community when, in the recent case before him, he declared this practice against humanity and against a high civilization. It ought, indeed, to be clear by this time to the people of our country everywhere, that responsibility and infamy must eventually attach themselves to any who, in a Christian community, dare withhold civil and humane treatment from a whole class of men on no other consideration than that of color, and that the fostering of the public spirit which feeds itself on coarseness, selfishness, brutality, should be promptly discountenanced and frowned down by all who regard the public weal, or even their own safety. J. Stuart Mill says the assurance of a high civilization is to be found only where infractions of the public peace rarely or never occur. Now, it is just barely possible, though we doubt it, that the English philosopher and the common sense of mankind are alike mistaken, and that it is a mark of advanced civilization to court infraction of the public peace, and stimulate a spirit of ruffianism, by indulging wealthy corporations in the practise of inciting paid emissaries to menace, lay violent hands on, and kick our wives and children from conveyances upon which their right to ride is clear enough, as upon them the meanest white person is unquestioned.
We have been somewhat censured for not oftener appealing in this matter to our courts. You, sir, have assured us that there, at least, we should find impartiality and justice. Surely you will not blame us if we doubt this assurance. We have been denied the use of these cars under the most aggravating circumstances. We have seen aged and infirm persons; mothers, with tender babes in their arms; innocent and harmless children, dearer to us than the apple of our eye ; brave and patriotic soldiers, maimed in the service of their country, ejected amid the curses and violence of the paid emissaries of those wealthy corporations, and in our sore grievances we have appealed to the courts of law, and here we have always been baffled and beaten, on the plainest issue of fact. The judges (and we mean no undue disrespect to the ministers of the law) have seemed to handle and discuss our case ad if it were one to be squared and settled by a mean and petty prejudice, rather than by law and equity. We have, more over, on numberless occasions, appealed to the officers of the public peace, and to the city’s shame be it said, these officers have, under instructions from our generally acceptable Mayor, uniformly run, not to the assistance of us, the outraged party, but to the aid of the rude aggressors. It is really no wonder if, under a reasonable assurance of protection in the courts, and the ready aid of our Mayor’s police, these car men should grow bold and insolent in their defiant ruffianism.
Why should not our city authorities have instructed the officers of police to interfere occasionally in our behalf, rather than always in behalf of the aggressors, and thus put upon them the onus probandi of vindicating their tyrannical rules?
But public sentiment, as we have said, now fairly demands a change. It is, therefore, proper that the public should know what we, the aggrieved party, ask. We do not claim to speak for others—for there are among us, as among you, honest differences of opinion. But in speaking for ourselves, we may possibly speak for a large and influential class of colored persons, who, though possessing cultivation, intelligence and worth, are not prominent in matters of this kind, and are not usually heard at public meetings.
Let us say, then, that we indignantly reject the proposal to place on our highways and thoroughfares a labelled negro pew, and we call upon the colored men and women of the city to join us in this protest against the inflicting upon us of any such mark of degradation.
The separate car would be but an exhibition of the mean spirit of caste, unsatisfactory and humiliating alike to all classes in the community; it would tend to foster the very discrimination, and fan the dying embers of that senseless prejudice which all would fain see removed. Mark the language of Judge Allison in the case already referred to: "If this is not done, (i.e., the putting on of separate cars,) public sentiment will soon break down the present obstruction, and admit all.” That is, keep off these separate cars, and all discrimination will soon cease. This is the opinion of one who is accustomed to weighing evidence, and knows whereof he affirms.
Men of color! self-respect before convenience! Shun the proscribed or “Jim Crow” car as you would any other device for fastening upon us a mark of degradation, and for bolstering up the miserable idea of our inferiority.
Surely, there is nothing unreasonable in the demand that all color distinction shall immediately cease, on our city passenger railways. New York city, (which at most tolerated but one line with the labeled cars,) with a colored population of over twenty thousand, makes no discrimination as to color whatever. That is, the city which has a larger foreign population than any other on the continent, and gave the ultra Seymour-McClellan pro-slavery ticket a majority of over thirty-five thousand votes, freely accords her twenty thousand colored men and women the right to ride unquestioned in all her public conveyances; while Philadelphia, which gave ten thousand majority and upwards for the Republican ticket, meanly excludes her twenty-eight thousand blacks from most of her public conveyances. In Cincinnati, which is on the boundary between slavery and freedom, and which has a large colored population, all colored females ride unquestioned in the city cars. In a word, the general practice in all Northern cities is to allow colored persons full and unquestioned facilities in city travel, Philadelphia being the marked exception. We do not, however, forget to applaud the entire abolition of color distinction on the Darby and on the Fifth and sixth street lines, though some of the conductors on the latter cling to the meanness of their old ways, and are quite officious towards colored passengers, and have several times, we are credibly informed, ushered into crowded cars uncouth and uncleanly blacks, three or four at once, with the evident purpose of creating a feeling against the new arrangement.
The directors of the new Union (Seventh and Ninth-street) line have informed us that they have no regulations on the subject, yet their conductors daily reject, insult, and some times assault the most respectable of colored persons. We hope to see this utterly unwarranted ruffianism soon stopped.
Even in the darkest days of his sorrowful history, the colored man has felt assured that the discrimination against him must some day cease; and we believe that an innate faith in the ultimate triumph of justice tells the white man and the black man alike, that the foul spirit of caste must soon disappear, especially under the force of our democratic institutions. Why then delay by a step in the dark, (as the running of the proscribed or “Jim Crow” car certainly would be,) what we all know must soon come?
But while we ask a change that shall give to us simply what is accorded to others-nothing more, nothing less-we would at the same time welcome any regulation for the peremptory exclusion of all persons, without regard to color, on account of un-cleanliness of person or other repulsive habit.
EBENEZER D. BASSETT,
Principal of Colored High School.
WILLIAM J. ALSTON,
Rector of St. Thomas’s Church.
Philadelphia, Jan 12, 1865.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done, over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street,
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—ly

BOARDING.
MRS. GLAGER wishes to inform her friends and the public, that she has taken house 41 Washington st., Cambridgeport, where she can accommodate a few boarders or lodgers. References exchanged.
Dec. 2. If
