THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, via:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 34. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1600.

Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE POLICY OF THE PEOPLE.
A revival of the Crittenden Compromise, or the presentation of any basis of a similar nature for the settlement of our national difficulties, will soon be THE POLICY OF THE PEOPLE. There arc strong indications of the appearance of a sober second thought, which, when fairly placed before the enlightened classes, who arc at present so much in favor of a continuance of the war, must produce a more respectful entertainment of the Kentucky statesman's wise, as well as fraternal plan. History is now furnished with the” actual cause" of the existing conflict-the responsible party is known-and, instead of urging us as a nation to the verge, perhaps, of extermination, they should be held in the light of revolutionists, as selfish as they are fanatical.
Those who may have conscientiously opposed the creation of the war, have not been ignorant of the feat that Senator Seward's best friends have openly boasted that he, with other members of the Republican Cabinet. FORCED THE PEOPLE OF CHARLESTON TO FIRE UPON THE FLAG. In truth, many Republicans hove been elated with what they have called” the most splendid diplomatic act" of the Auburn Secretary,-in a word, the inauguration of the war.
Let these things be kept before the public, and in lien of the habit of condemning honest citizens for honest sentiments applied with firmness and ability against the party spirit which yet lurks among the conductors of the war, let the” policy of the people,"-the adoption of the Crittenden Compromise,-be an object of unceasing effort.
We are not destitute of a proper regard for the teachings of any man who may have been not only the companion but the follower of Henry Clay: and among the Republicans it is but reasonable, to ask why they, who in former years clung to the principle of that noble soul of the West, cannot now rally, and endorse the mediation of his best friend? CITIZEN.-Journal of Commerce.

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
[From the Journal of Commerce.]
MESSRS, EDITORS,-Mr. Wendell Phillips, in an address delivered August. 1st, represents the condition and circumstances of the negroes in the West Indies since Emancipation so entirely different from all the fads and statistics, that, in my opinion, they should not be allowed to be spread broadcast over the North at the present time without a refutation. I am aware that it is a hopeless task to combat the legion of falsehoods put forth by the fanatics of the Abolition school; but a few of the facts, which are indisputable, as to the consequences of emancipation in the West Indies, may at the present time do good. Mr. Phillips represents the negroes as so shrewd and thrifty, that they are not necessitated to labor for others. He says,” the real complaint has never been, that the black man would not work." And again, “ England exports to these islands. 1 may safely say, double-perhaps I might say four times the amount of manufactured articles that she did in the days of slavery. There has been no moment when two looms in England were not kept active to supply the demand of the West Indies, for one before."
Now what are the real facts, as shown by official figures, statistics, and the solemn testimony of their own historians? In Porter's Progress of the Nation, we find that the exports of British produce and manufactures to the West Indies, in the year 1838, the year of emancipation, amounted to the sum of 23,393,441. In 1841, only three years after the Emancipation Act. it had decreased to £2,504.004; and in 1849, only reached the sum of £1,821,146. In l838, Jamaica exported 69,613 hhds. sugar, 2,367,640 Lbs. ginger, and 1:5.551,793 Lbs. of coffee. In 1850. the exports had fallen to 36,030 hhds. of sugar, 720,276 Lbs. of ginger, 3,127,255 lbs. of coffee; and in 1857, she exported 30,459 hhds. of sugar, 381,157lbs. of ginger, and 7,095,623 Lbs. of coffee, which shows conclusively that the productions of the Island have diminished more than one half since the Emancipation Act; and the legitimate conclusion to be drawn is, that if the negroes only produce one-half what they did before emancipation, they only have one-half the means to purchase British manufactures.
It may not be amiss to close, this communication by a short extract from the History of Europe, by Sir Archibald Alison, the eminent English historian. No man is more jealous of the glory of England than he, and it is his boast, as well as of every other Englishman, that no slaves breathe the air upon the soil of England or her colonies. I quote from Vol. 3d of the 2d series, pages 142, 143:
"It is difficult to say whether the West India proprietors, the negro population in the islands, the sable inhabitants of Africa, or the manufacturers of the mother country, have suffered most from the change. It appears from parliamentary returns that the produce of Jamaica, within three years after emancipation took effect, had decreased a third, and within ten years, that of the whole West Indies lad fallen off a half. As might be expected, with so prodigious a decline in the produce of these once magnificent settlements, that the means these in-habitants enjoyed of purchasing comforts and luxuries, the exports of British manufactures and produce to the West Indies had diminished a half." Mr. Alison further says:” Disastrous as the results have been to the British interests, both at home and in the West Indies, they are nothing to those which have ensued to the negroes themselves. Generally speaking, the incipient civilization of the negro has been arrested by his emancipation; with the cessation of forced labor, the habits and tastes which spring from and compensate it have disappeared, and savage habits and pleasures have resumed their ascendancy over the sable race. The attempts to instruct and civilize them have, for the most part, proved a failure, the dolce far ninth, equally dear to the unlettered savage as the effeminate European, has resumed its sway, and the emancipated Africans dispersed in the woods, or in cabins erected amidst the ruined plantations, are fast relapsing into the state in which their ancestors were, when torn from their native seats by the rapacity of Christian avarice. Negro emancipation has not failed because it was prompted by benevolent motives or directed to Philanthropic ends, but because, in the prosecution of these ends, the lessons of experience and the observation of facts were utterly disregarded. The latter were brought before the people in the most forcible manner, but met with no sort of attention, the public mind being entirely carried away by the alluring Phantom of DESTROYED SLAVERY. They made the savage free, without his having gained the faculty-self-direction; thence the failure of the whole measures, and the unutterable miseries with which
<c02>
it has been attended. Such have been the consequences of seeking prematurely to emancipate men, of forgetting the words of God, 'In the sweat of thy face shall thou eat bread.'”
Such has been the experience of England, as plainly related by Her most eminent historian. Shall we profit by the lesson? If my feeble voice could be heard amid the warring elements, which arc fast hurrying our proud Republic into the abyss of war. I would say, Remember that the emancipation of four millions of Africans in our midst would be not only destructive of the commerce of the North, but also of our manufactures, and would be fraught with untold horrors to the Africans themselves. D. X.

Selections.
EMANCIPATION DAY AT DRUMMONDVILLE, CANADA WEST.
The first of August was duly celebrated in various portions of the Province. The chief celebration was at Drummondville. The day was bright and beautiful; it seemed that nature had donned her most lovely apparel. The inhabitants of the village and of the surrounding country turned out en masse. There are in that vicinity a large number of self emancipated slaves-those who were once marketable commodities, bought and sold as beasts of burden, but no longer driven by the lash to unrequited toil, they assembled, with an excellent band of music, and all the usual el ceteras of such an occasion. By their intelligent and joyful countenances, their personal appearance, and their orderly deportment, they won the admiration of every impartial and honest beholder. There were present also several of the” lords of the lash," those who do not know by experience what it is to earn an honest penny, having always filched their living from others. But the humblest” boy” before them was their peer, for he stood on British soil. They learned a lesson on that day, which, we trust, they will never forget.
But to the programme of the occasion. The meeting was called to order, and D. Macfarlane, Esq., was chosen President. He thanked the audience for the honor conferred upon him, and introduced, in a very happy manner, the orator of the day, Mr. Win. J. Watkins. The large audience evinced an ardent desire to see and hear this gentleman, on account of his reputation as a popular orator. His speeches, reported in the Globe, through our recent political struggle, have won for him a reputation which those might covet who prate about” negro inferiority." Mr. Watkins was in his happiest mood, and spoke for three hours, being enthusiastically applauded during the delivery of his masterly oration. He briefly reviewed the history of the British West India Emancipation movement, and dwelt upon the fact that it was through continued agitation on the part of British philanthropists, that the grand consummation was effected. In this connection, he eloquently adverted to the labors of the American abolitionists for the overthrow of slavery in that Republic. Men and women, said he, often cling to the illusory imaginings of error with as much tenacity as to the living realities of an axiomatic truth. It is not easy to tear away the mould-covered hatchways of old and venerated theories, so that heaven's sunlight may reveal their native ugliness; nor is it a light task to pluck up the deep-rooted foundations of systems and institutions which have received the baptism of centuries. But the law of progress is the law of God. And the history of the world assures us, that in the irrepressible development of this primal law, there has always arrived an era when all opposition has proved abortive, and the truth has beamed out upon the darkness, in all its incandescent glory; when justice, bursting the cerements of the grave, has sought out, and crowned with immortal laurels, those who were but yesterday hurled into the pit, amid the barbaric brutalities of a malignant mob. So is it, he said, to-day. What the abolitionists have hitherto uttered as prophecy, now looms up as history in the world's horizon. Wendell Phillips,” the silver-tongued orator," is no longer regarded as the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet. The mob no more thirst for his blood. The mobocratic elements have melted beneath the fervent heat of his oratory, and the steady brightness of his consistent life. William Lloyd Garrison is no longer driven through the streets of Boston with a halter around his neck. There he sits in his sanctum, flashing his lightnings where he pleases, hurling upon oppression everywhere his exterminating thunders, and none dare exclaim, “Garrison, what doest thou?” Seward. Sumner, and Hale, are now acknowledged to belong to powerful, if not to” healthy" organizations. What were once regarded as the incoherent ravings of dreamy abstractionists and crazy Bedlamites, are now felt to be concrete and cannon ball realities. The aggressions of the slave power have thrown up, said he, a highway through which the oppressed shall yet reach the star-spangled goal of their aspirations. Mr. Watkins then spoke" of the results of West India Emancipation. It had not been a failure, as had been declared by some. Numerous authorities were cited to prove that emancipation has been a boon to all classes, A letter of Gov. Hineks, ex-Premier of the Canadas, to a committee of gentlemen residing in Toronto, was quoted. Says that gentleman:” Emancipation has proved a blessing to all. Real estate has increased in price, and is a more certain and advantageous investment than in the time of slavery. The estates are much better, and more economically cultivated, and the proprietors are, I am inclined to think, perfectly contented. The improvement which has taken place in the religious condition of all classes, and the progress of education, is quite equal to what could reasonably have been expected." After treating this subject in a thorough manner, Mr. Watkins then spoke of the civil war in the United States. He believed it would be the death-blow of slavery, though it was not so intended. He sympathized with the United States Government, as against the Confederates, yet the former must tear away from its present unmanly position; it must itself cease to be particles criminals in the act of enslaving four millions of human beings. It must, in a word, put down slavery, before it can put down the rebellion of which slavery is the cause. He; spoke in scathing terms of Butler, Slimmer, Cowden, and others, who, amid the galling fire of the enemy, went down on their knees, and sent back the poor fugitives who offered their valuable services to crush the rebellion. Until the United States Government takes the right position, it does not deserve success, nor will it achieve it He concluded with some excellent advice to the fugitive slaves who were before him. He said-Be intelligent, industrious, economical. Aspire daily to something higher. Show your appreciation of the blessings of liberty. Be self-reliant God helps those who help themselves. Stand up where the sunlight can flash upon and fertilize your energies; where you can
<c03>
drink the invigorating dews of heaven. Never despair, for God sits upon the throne, and amid tip clash of contending armies, he cannot and will not forget you, for the very hairs of your head are numbered.
The address created a deep impression upon all, and a large number of persons gathered around the speaker at the close.
Rev. Mr. Darling and-Mr. Warren Clark then made some very pertinent and eloquent remarks.
A sumptuous entertainment was provided, to which ample justice was done. There was also a banquet in the evening-Thus ended the day. Everything connected with the celebration rejected great credit upon all concerned.-Toronto Globe.

THE ANNIVERSARY OF NEGRO EMANCIPATION.
Last evening, a public meeting in commemoration of the twenty-seventh anniversary of this event, was held in Spa fields chapel, under the auspices of the London Emancipation Committee. There was a large and enthusiastic audience.
The chair was occupied by Mr. WILCOKS, who was supported by Mr. Geo. Thompson, Rev. D. Hewlett. Mr. Washington Wilkes, Mr. W. Farmer, Mr. D. M'Donnell, Mr. J. A. Homer, Mr. Chessor, John Anderson, and other gentlemen.
The CHAIRMAN said that he felt much gratified with the honor put upon him on this occasion, for it gave him great pleasure to be identified with the cause of emancipation.
Mr. CHESSON (the Hon. Secretary) then read letters expressing sympathy with the meeting from T. S. Duncombe," Esq., M. P., Gen. Perronet Thompson, and Gen. Dupuy, the Haytian Minister. Gen. Thompson in his letter said:-If the British West India Islands, on the first appointment of a Ministry inimical to slavery, had done what has been done by the Seceding States-stormed the forts occupied by the troops of the Sovereign, private red against the commerce of the country, and raised regiments with Lord Grey's coffin for a standard-I suppose nobody doubts what would have been the course pursued as the means of removing the whole mischief with the least amount of blood and danger. An English commander-in-chief would have been considered as unfit for his situation to an extent it would be vain to describe, if, as soon as he found himself in command of a competent for, he did not move forward with a declaration of this kind-' Slavery is non-existent in all places occupied by the British forces. Slaves are invited to make no movement before the liberating force arrives in their own parish. Violence out of the field of combat, cither by whites or colored, will be put down by military force as soon as they can be reached. As fast as any district is occupied, volunteers from the colored population will be invited to join the three West India Regiments and the Lard Transport Corps, on terms which will be notified. Planters willing to continue their works by giving present support to their laborers, will receive immunity for the past, on entering the British camp, and military protection for the future. Vagrants found committing depredations will be sent to a punishment-gang.' It is submitted that a general officer who did not do something like this, would lose caste; and that those who should try to hinder him, would be defective cither in judgment or in principle."
The Rev. W. H. BONNER was then called upon to move the first resolution, which was to the following effect:-" That on this, the twenty-seventh anniversary of the abolition of slavery in the British colonies, this meeting would joyfully record the satisfaction which it feels in the retrospect of the results which have followed from the Emancipation Act of 1833, which have demonstrated that that Act was not one more of national justice than of sound policy; it would also rejoice in the fact that the liberated population have, by their conduct, triumphantly vindicated their capacity for freedom, as well as their right to it, and have demonstrated the safety and advantage as well as the duty and necessity of immediate and unconditional emancipation." The Rev. gentleman, in the course of his remarks, read a long and interesting communication from Mr. Roycroft, a missionary just returned from San Domingo, upon the condition and prospects of the colored race upon Turk's Island and in San Domingo.
The Rev. Dr. HEWLETT seconded the resolution, He said it had cost the country twenty millions sterling to liberate the slaves in the West Indies, but never were twenty millions better laid out than in this cause. This was the universal opinion of Englishmen of the present day, but his friend, Mr. George Thompson, would very well recollect the opposition at that time to emancipation. It proceeded, however, from those who had vested interests in the continuance of slavery, and seldom I from those who could judge with honesty and impartiality. Notwithstanding the sterling value of able-bodied slaves, they were not treated with the care which any Essex farmer would bestow upon his cattle, and thus the property in slaves was of a most precarious and unprofitable kind. In conclusion, the speaker expressed a hope that success would attend the efforts of those who were endeavoring to place British consuls at points all round the coast of Africa-a measure which he believed would prove to be an effectual barrier to the slave-trade.
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON proposed the second resolution as follows:-" That it is the conviction of this meeting that the civil war now waging in America has been caused by the existence and toleration of the institution of slavery, in violation of the primary principles of the Declaration of Independence, upon which the Union was professedly founded; and would express its earnest hope that the people of the Free States will embrace the opportunity which the war furnishes, to declare, through their elected organ, the abolition of slavery throughout all the States and Territories over which the authority of the Constitution extends, and thereby perform an act of justice and humanity to four millions of their population, ensure the more speedy termination of the present unnatural and sanguinary conflict, commend the hearty sympathy and admiration of England, and lay a foundation for the future and permanent peace, prosperity and unsullied reputation of their great Republic." It would be, he said, no exaggeration to say that no public speaker could rise to discuss a question of greater gravity or of deeper import than that which was submitted to them on this occasion. Nothing which was" happening in any part of the world could approach in political and moral importance that which was now happening in the United States of America. There was no spot on the globe that would not be affected for good or for evil by the results which would spring from the contest now waging on the other side of the Atlantic. The resolution referred to slavery as the cause of that monstrous internecine war-a system which was held in detestation by every community throughout the world; and there
<c04>
Was not a single intelligent being who knew the history of American politics who would not maintain that it was the sole gravies of the quarrel between North and South? (Cheers.) But for this, harmony would still prevail. The Union had indeed been preserved for a long series of years in spite of it; but that cohesion had been secured by continual compromises on the part of the Northern States in order to conciliate the South, who in their caprice and their aggrandizing spirit had called upon the North to violate their fundamental principles as the price of a continued union with their Southern brethren. Only six months ago, slavery seemed to be seated on a throne supreme and invincible, while it had swayed the political feelings and guided the political action of the country at large. If the South were no longer supreme, and slavery was shaken to its very centre, it was owing to her fatuity, her judicial blindness which would not see that slavery would be safe so long as they remained in the Union, because being within it, they secured the entire physical force of the States, as well as the whole moral force of the country, in perpetuation of their institution of slavery. (Hear, hear.) Under the influence or this madness, they determined to separate themselves from the North, and make themselves into a distinct and independent nation. And as our own West India Emancipation was brought about far less by the advocacy of men whose names were rendered immortal by their connection with that great event-such as Clarkson and Wilber-force-than by the outrages and cruelty of the planters and colonists themselves; so in America, the blow to slavery came not from the Abolitionists, but by the very act of the Slave States themselves. (Cheers.) Mr. Lincoln did not differ from any other President who had ever been elected, except that he had given a pledge not only that he would do nothing to extend the area of slavery, but that he would use all his influence to limit and contract it. This was the maximum of Mr. Lincoln's anti-slavery; He was believed to be an honest politician and also to hold that slavery was a sin against the laws of God and man. This was what recommended him to the Abolitionists, and this was the head and front, of his offending against the Southern States. Mr. Thompson proceeded at considerable length, and in an eloquent manner, to explain his views with regard to the state of affairs in America; and, in conclusion, he said that the resolution he had to submit asked them, in the presence of the war, and without regard to the question of its constitutional character, to combine in beseeching the Federal Government to adopt a policy of emancipation, so that the cause of this, and, it was to be feared, of future wars might be removed, and that great nation be made free, and one with us, in spreading the principles of liberty all over the globe. (Cheers.)
Mr. WASHINGTON WILKES, in supporting the resolution, said, whatever might be the degree of hopefulness with which they regarded the issue of the war, they could not but deplore the fact itself. When the scene of war is not the ocean, the common pathway between nation and nation, but the soil on which both combatants were born, how much greater were its horrors! Men from North and South intermarried, and intermingled so that no one could tell on seeing an American from what State he came, what side in the struggle he would take. (Hear, hear.) We could only regard the Americans as another branch of the same great family with ourselves, so closely were we identified in language, in history, in religion, and almost in laws. In pointing out, therefore, the causes and the issues of this war, let the language of sympathy towards their brethren be used. (Hear, hear.) With regard to the cause of the war, they could but feel that the language of the resolution was a truism, and that only by the destruction of slavery could the war be lastingly terminated. (Cheers.) That had been the evil and bitter root which had brought forth the harvest of disaster. They could not blame the founders of the Republic. No men could be more pure from human passion and infirmity than they who laid the foundation of that noble structure. It was not now a question of liberty, for the slave only, but of liberty for the white population of the North as well, for the South demanded nothing less than this-that no man should speak or print a word against slavery, or do a single act which should help a slave to escape: Suppose their elect were placed in the chair of the Father of the Republic; give to them a facile Congress; allow them to recast the American statute-book: they would so pervert the Constitution that America, instead of being the widest canopy of freedom under heaven, would become the darkest den of despotism. (Hear, hear.) Years ago, their own poet had warned them when he said,-
"There is a poor, blind Samson in the land."
(Cheers.) We repeat the warning to-day, and we say,” Be wise in time; be generous, and thereby prove yourselves sagacious." They had met that night to commemorate a great act of justice, and on this occasion he hoped they would address the American people through the press in the language of encouragement to the cause of justice. Mr. Wilkes then referred to the annexation of San Domingo by Spain, urging the duty of England to protest against such an outrage on international law, and concluded amidst loud cheers.
The CHAIRMAN announced that John Anderson was to be placed for his education under the care of Dr. Hewlett, and also that a benevolent lady had volunteered to buy his wife and children out of slavery forthwith. These statements were received with great applause.
Mr. THOMPSON moved and Mr. EBENEZER BURR seconded a supplementary resolution to the following effect:-" That this meeting desires to express, in emphatic terms, its indignant reprobation of the conduct of Spain in annexing the negro republic of San Domingo by the combined influences of treachery and armed force; that it deeply sympathizes with the Dominican people, who have been made to suffer this grievous wrong, and also with their Haitian fellow-countrymen, who are placed in a position of great difficulty and danger; and, lastly, it requests the chairman, on its behalf, to make known to her Majesty's Foreign Secretary the strong conviction it entertains that England has not fulfilled her duty in this matter, inasmuch as she has failed to protest against the crime of which Spain has been guilty, although such a protest was as much called for by a due regard to British interests, and to the future safety of our emancipated fellow-subjects in the West Indies, as by a feeling of just compassion for the victims of Spanish lawlessness and ambition."
JOHN ANDERSON, the fugitive slave, then came forward, and declared how grateful he was for the kindness of the English people, and how happy he felt to be among them. He then gave them a short resume of the circumstances of his chase and the fall of Diggers, which are already so familiar to the English public. He gave his account in such a modest but frank manner, that he won the applause of the meeting, and was listened to with great attention.-London Morning Star, Aug. 2.
<c05>

NO MOBS,
Everybody remembers the Hon. Caleb Cushing's famous Bangor letter, written in January, 1860, in which the writer predicted that if the Republicans should elect a Speaker of the National House of Representatives, and if Connecticut and New Hampshire should, at the then approaching elections, sustain the Republican policy, there would be a general smash,” social convulsions, hostile combats in the town streets, predatory guerrilla bands roving up and down the country, shootings and hangings," and, to wind up,” cruel war-war at home, and in the perspective distance a man on horseback with a drawn sword in his hand, some Atlantic Caesar, or Cromwell, or Napoleon," &c. We have always thought, particularly since the present rebellion broke out, that Mr. Gushing must have had a more intimate knowledge of the purposes of the Southern traitors than he saw fit to divulge; but let that pass; his prediction is much above the average of those made by the professed wizards, astrologers and spiritual mediums. We wish now to call attention to another remark made by Mr. Gushing a few weeks before the Bangor letter was written. In a very violent speech made by him in Annuli Hall, on the 8th of December, 1859, devoted principally to the” John Brown raid," which, with the recklessness and audacity characteristic of the pro-slavery politicians of that time, he attributed to a deliberate purpose on the part of the North to carry on an armed interference with slavery, Mr. Gushing said:
"Shall we in Massachusetts continue to nourish the sentiments of mutual rancor and hostility upon an abstract question wholly beyond our reach and authority? If we do so, we well know the consequences. We know that not only must the Federal compact break by its own weight, when we shall have to say farewell to the vaunted glories of the American Union, but when there will be the more terrible and dismal spectacle of civil war upon our own soil in Massachusetts. When we look forward to the consequences of a disruption of this Union, is the North to invade the South, for the purpose of carrying on an armed prosecution of these projects of interference with the institutions of the South? Will the North undertake that? If the North does undertake that, it will sacrifice every thing: of peace and honor for a delusion and a shade. Will the North do it? Are there not gallant and patriotic men enough in the State of Massachusetts, who, if any such traitorous purpose should be attempted against the South, a war of invasion for the destruction of the Union and the Government of the Union-are there not men enough here to seize the traitors by the throat, (loud cries of “Yes, yes," and great applause,) and say, “You must walk over our bodies; you shall not engage in this fratricidal, suicidal civil" war with your fellow-citizens of other States." I say, that whenever this state of things approaches, that war will not be upon Mason and Dixon's line, but it will be upon the soil of New England, and upon those who hate the Constitution of the country, between those who declare that the Constitution is a covenant with the devil and a league with hell. I say there will be war between them and those who are devotedly attached to the Constitution, and determined at all hazards to maintain the Union."
It is very well known that the Southern traitors were stimulated in their attempt to overthrow the government by the expectation of aid from the Northern States, and it is easy to sec that such declarations as those we have quoted from the Annuli Hall speech and the Bangor letter went far to encourage their treasonable purposes. But it is not our object to bring Mr. Gushing from his retirement for the sake of linking his name with the rebellion. Our purpose is to call attention to the necessity of union, harmony and order among the people of the loyal States. We believe there is an overwhelming majority of the people of the free States in favor of sustaining the general government in its efforts to maintain the integrity of the Union and the sway of the Constitution and the laws; in fact, that there is substantial unanimity on this question. There are plenty of men and newspapers which are trying to make some political capital out of questions connected with the war; and there are unquestionably some men who, like Ben Wood and Yallandigham, and the. Editors of the few notorious secession sheets in New York, Connecticut, and Ohio, are as openly as they dare to be in league with the rebels. These last clamor for peace, not only at the expense of the nation's dishonor, but because they desire the nation's dishonor. They would be glad to see Washington captured, the President of the United States a fugitive, and themselves recipients of fat salaries under Jefferson Davis. But the former class does not mean to sacrifice their loyalty and their political hopes to the cause of their quondam friends. We would preserve this substantial unanimity by our political action this fall, and by keeping to the extreme verge of toleration in our dealings with those who are of the class pledged by Mr. Gushing and others to get up a civil war on Northern soil, as a diversion for the benefit of the South. We know very well the temptation which besets every true man when he reads the Dally News, the Day Book, the Bridgeport Farmer, and some other newspapers, and which has proved too much for the loyal citizens of Concord, N. H., and Bangor. We know that there has been far too much lenity exercised by the Government toward spies and traitor? in Washington and in Northern cities; and that there is quite as much reason for making war upon them as upon the secession army in trenched at Manassas. We remember the story of the trumpeter who was held equally guilty with the soldier, though he did not bear arms, but only an instrument for rallying the host to battle. We appreciate the metaphysical distinction of the late Reverend President of Harvard College, who, upon the appearance of a disloyal article in the Boston Courier, remarked that he” did not approve of tarring and feathering, but it was impossible to forget that it had been sometimes well done." But we know also one of the strongest reasons a citizen of one of our Free States has in maintaining his principles against the spread of slaveholding doctrines, consists in the fact that freedom is orders, while slavery is chronic anarchy. We talk of war in the South, but there have always been war in that section, and always will be until the last slave has his shackles struck off; for every man who is held in bondage is in a condition of rebellion, open or secret, against the man who holds him. We must make no approach to that condition of things foretold by Mr. Gushing-social convulsions, street combats, and civil war at home, for these bring us nearer and nearer to the likeness of the men whose social condition, no less than their actual treason, we now so deeply deplore. Unless men are proved to be actually engaged in aiding and abetting the rebellion, we would have no violence done to them. There is no law against dirt-eating, and there is much in habit to excuse it; no law against preferring slavery to freedom, and despotism to republican institutions; some men are so constituted that they must be either tyrants or flunkies, and a state of shivery seems necessary, to them. Only when their preference of slavery to freedom, of despotism to democracy, of the Richmond to the Washington
<c06>
Government leads them, to the commission of overt acts of treason; we would have them, punished. But no mobs in the free cities and towns of the North.-N. Y. Tribune.
The destruction of a newspaper office in Concord, New Hampshire, has been speedily followed by a similar act of popular vengeance in Bangor. For aught we know, the Bangor paper may have been as unwise in its treasonable talk, and may have given as direct provocation to individuals, as its New Hampshire companion in misfortune; but we cannot help suspecting that the fate of the latter hastened the crisis in the affairs of the former, and that if there had been no mob in Concord, there would have been none in Bangor. Examples of this sort are contagious in the extreme, at a moment of great popular excitement like this. The man, who has shrewdly calculated the limits of public forbearance in his own locality, must be prepared to meet the additional peril occasioned by some outbreak elsewhere, and to find his reliance upon the good sense and prudence of the community, whom he daily outrages, suddenly impaired by the effect of some bad precedent set elsewhere. And he must also be prepared to find that, after the ice is once broken, a much smaller provocation will rouse the active animosity of the multitude, than was necessary to excite the original movement.
We trust that the patriotic and liberty-loving men of New England will take these things to heart, and will be warned by the first steps in a work of mischief which, once fairly on foot, will be a shame and a cause of repentance for them forever. Let them beware how any man's liberty of speech or publication is limited by popular violence. Let them beware of any tribunal or any standard for judging the counsel or conduct of any man, except such as are recognized and provided by the law. For generations has New England jealously guarded against every sign of infringement upon those great rights, which are justly regarded as the foundation of our liberties, in spite of the reckless or mischievous design with which those rights may have been exercised? Let us not forget at this moment, when the genuine old spirit of New England shines out more brightly than ever, the forbearance and impartial justice which have been counseled and practiced here for generation after generation. No one can predict the excesses to which such a spirit may finally lead, if it is once suffered to take its course unchecked; but this we know, that the first step in such a course is an abandonment of a principle which should ever be held sacred.
The mischief that these advocates of secession may have been able to accomplish appears to us inconsiderable in comparison with the discredit brought upon the national cause by such acts of violence as we now refer to. From the outset, the strong point with the loyal States has been, that whereas the seceded States have suppressed all liberty of speech and publication, the faithful States have preserved both intact, and have been able to show a public sentiment, which has become unanimous under no pressure, but by its own spontaneous action. We still maintain that this is the case, but where are we to turn for evidence to counteract the impression produced by such proceedings as we have lately recorded? Let the North beware how it suffers the moral effect of its noble and universal zeal to be destroyed, by acts which shall serve to confound the general harmony of opinion and action here, with the enforced agreement which is at once the shame and weakness of the South.-Boston Daily Adv.

SOUTHERN LYING.
The Richmond correspondent of the Charleston Mercury, who claims to have been on the field of the late battle, gives full details of the death of Senator Foster, of Conn., who was in his seat the day after the battle! He also asserts that documentary evidence was found on the field of battle, that McDowell's army was 130,000 strong!
The Charleston Courier's correspondent speaks of the capture of 500 wagons, and provisions enough to feed an army of 50,000 men for twelve months! The same correspondent tells the following pleasant little stories:
“Alluding to barbarity, reminds mo of something I heard last night. I wrote you that the enemy, when they came to Manassas to bury their dead slain in the battle of the 19th, commenced entrenching themselves. They formed their entrenchments of human bodies; took their dead comrades, and piling them one on the other dug a trench, and threw the dirt over the bodies to form a breastwork. I am not sure but it is wicked to relate anything so horrible, and admit that a civilized man was guilty of it, but it is true, notwithstanding.
I saw President Davis this morning, who gave me many interesting particulars. Yesterday I learned much from Col. Chestnut, and this evening Gen. McGowan entertained a large circle with many amusing incidents. The enemy crossed the Potomac with a grand army. Gen. Scott, in a splendid carriage, drawn by sic fine 7torses, passed part of the day at Centreville. Mrs. Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, and other ladies, was with him. One was a lady of Centreville, with whom Gen. McGowan afterwards spent the evening"
The correspondent of the New Orleans Picayune does his best to rival his competitors in the matter of invention. He asserts that “a great number of civilians and ladies attended the army on its march," and that in their flight they scattered” trunks, band boxes, hoop skirts, and everything belonging to ladies' attire. Here, too, is another fiction from the same mint:
"Among the curiosities brought in here is a carriage, which many believe to have been the carriage of Gen. Scott himself. It is a complete domestic establishment on wheels, with parlor, dining-room, bed, sofa, and everything that could conduce to the comfort or convenience of the occupant. The captors say there was also found in it a bath, which the General is supposed to have used to cool off his gouty feet." 

HOW THE REBELS USE THE SLAVES.
Twelve thousand slaves, we are told, are employed by the traitors at Manassas, in building their fortifications and strengthening their position. They avail themselves of every means within their power to enable them to resist us. How long will it be before the federal government will do the same? How long will it be before it proclaims that every slave in Virginia will be welcome to our lines, and will be set at work with proper pay for his labor, or that they will be organized into regiments, and thus enabled to aid in putting down the rebellion? How long will it be before we shall accept the services of the thousands of colored men in the Free States, who would gladly volunteer their services for the defense of the nation? How long will it be before we shall send an army of colored troops to the Southern ports, whose climate is fatal to the whites, and thus take the enemy in their most assailable?
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
What order of men under the moat absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and-unjust privilege as that of the separate, and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of ibis House,, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one) species of property concentrated in the-highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy la to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name is the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
points? How long will it be before we shall recognize the fact that men like the hero Tallman, who killed the pirates and secured the vessel, in order to escape being sent into slavery, are the very men to fight against slaveholders and tyrants? How long shall we delay to use every means within our reach, to weaken our enemy, and to bring a speedy end to this war?-New Bedford Republican Standard.
NO TERMS WITH TRAITORS.
THE SUBMISSION OF THE REBELS THE SOLE CONDUTION OF PEACE.
To the N. Y. Stale Democratic Committee:-
I make no apology for criticising Democrats, since I am myself a Democrat. Nay, almost can I say, "If any other man thinketh that he bath whereof he might trust in "Democracy, "I more."For I have spent much of my life in inculcating it. Moreover, my Democracy is not a half-way, out an extreme one-a Democracy as broad as mankind; and so jealous of Government as to allow its presence not only not in the Church, but not in the School no where, indeed, save in the one legitimate Governmental office of protecting persons and property. That mine is the genuine Democracy is manifested by the little patience, which the current and spurious Democracy has with it. Nor need I make an apology for praising Republicans, since I have never been one of them. And I need not fear that any thing that I shall say of Democrats or Republicans will expose me to the charge of office-seeking, since I am one of the few who, at the expense of being called very eccentric and very foolish, sternly refuse to go in the ways which lead to office.
The proposition made to you a few days ago by the N. Y. State Republican Committee was both wise and magnanimous. It was wise in view of the wants of the country. It was magnanimous because coming from the stronger to the weaker Party. I regret that it was declined. Its prompt and cordial acceptance would have strengthened the hands of the Government, and brightened the prospects of patriotism. But there is a reason given for declining it, which I much more than regret. It merits abhorrence and denunciation intense and universal. Republicans, ay, all right-minded men, whether Republicans or Democrats, demand of the rebels immediate and unconditional submission. But you would have "the Federal Government hold out terms of peace and accommodation to the dissevered States."Is this the policy of most of the Democratic leaders in the different States?-and is their Party to be rallied to espouse it? If so, then is there, more reason than ever to fear the result of the war-of the war which is waged so earnestly by our foes, and with so little and so divided heart by ourselves. Gloomy indeed is the prospect, if even this little heart is to be made less, and the breach in this divided heart to be made wider by this threatened unpatriotic attitude of the Democratic Party! Gloomy indeed the prospect, if the great Party, which comprises nearly half the men of the North, is to exhibit such a spectacle of meanness as in its espousal of this policy it will!-such a spectacle for our foe to feed his pride, and strengthen his courage, and build his hopes upon!
The North would be left without spirit to continue the war, after a proposed "accommodation "or compromise in her name. For what would the proposition imply but her admission that the rebels are at least partly right in their rebellion, and she at least partly wrong in resisting it?-what but her admission that our Government and Nation are either so reduced in power as not to be able to suppress a rebellion, or so reduced in dignity and self-respect as to be willing to bribe even rebels into forbearance? What, in a word, would the proposition imply, but her admission that the Government and Nation are not worth preserving? For to treat with armed rebels is manifestly to throw both away. There is not a respectable Monarchy on earth that would consent to do so. But far rather might it treat with armed traitors than we-we who have an open ballot-box through which wrongs can be righted. Do you say that crimes may be committed by Government so enormous as to justify the wronged in passing by the tardy and uncertain remedy of the ballot-box to seize their arms? But if it is by such crimes that this Rebellion has been provoked, then it should not be put down; and you ought to be ashamed of your boast that "hundreds of thousands of your (our) brethren (Democratic brethren) have taken up arms "against it. This boast is your virtual admission that the rebels had suffered no wrongs, which justified them in seeking any other than a peaceful redress. Never, that I am aware, had they suffered any wrong whatever at the hands of Government, always excepting the very great wrong of being allowed to have things their own way. Emphatically true is it, that the South is our partial Government's spoiled child. And no less true is it, that the North is now suffering the severe penalty of having permitted and encouraged the Government to spoil it.
A sword in one hand, and a bribe in the other! We can never conquer in this wise. Possibly we might, were our foe like ourselves. But neither of his hands bears messages of peace. Both are busy in dealing out death. And not only does he scorn to propose compromises, but as utterly and openly does he scorn to accept them. How exceedingly disingenuous, in this light, is your attempt, and is every other attempt, to make an issue with the uncompromising enemies of the Rebellion, by proposing compromises! You know perfectly well that there can be no compromises. Nevertheless, you continue to urge them. I will not say with the purpose-though it certainly is with no other effect than to divide and destroy us.
What boots it that we are two or three times as numerous as the enemy, and have ten times his wealth, if we are divided, and he united?-if, whilst with him, all speak one language, there are with us numberless lips, pens and presses that speak for him? Secession Regiments allowed to march daily through Baltimore would not be as dangerous to our Cause as arc her Secession Presses. And similar is the danger of such Presses in New York. The Regiments could be watched and controlled; but the demoralizing influence of the Presses cannot be hindered from going over the whole land. These Presses plead their Constitutional rights! But, just as sure as that the Southern Conspirators, who have flung away the Constitution and armed themselves against it and the nation, have no Constitutional rights, so sure is it that they who remain among us, and yet identity themselves with the Conspirators, have no Constitutional rights. There is not another nation on the earth which would accord rights to persons in the circumstances of the conductors of these Presses: and this nation must either cease from such spurious and suicidal liberality, or cease to live. The Constitution was not intended to afford protection to those who help on bloody war against itself and its loyal subjects. But what if there are Constitutional or other laws which seem to give shelter to such traitors? The necessities of war, among which there is scarcely one more urgent than the suppression of newspapers that are in the interest of the enemy, rise high above all laws. May the mob suppress them? No-but the War Power may. That Power, which has the right to break up a bridge when, in its judgment, the measure is called for has right under the same condition to break up a Press. But this, you will say, is to recognize in the War Power the boundlessness of despotic power. Admitted. And the nation which, in a war for its very existence, hesitates at such recognition, exhibits more of the harmlessness of child's play than of the terrible earnestness of war. What makes our comparatively small foe so effective? It is that the South is so earnest and so wise as to leave her War Power untrammeled, and entirely free to use all the means of the South, and to use them as it will. This wicked war would soon have been ended had our Government, or, in other words, our War Power, felt the like liberty. Very different would have been the present condition of things, if the Northern Government had felt the same liberty as the Southern to use black men. Whilst the South is wholly and hotly determined to maintain Southern Slavery and kill Northern Liberty, the North is half-heartedly in the work of maintaining both. The newspapers say that our Government has invited Garibaldi to take part in this impracticable and ridiculous work. It cannot be true. For, though our Government may feel bound to pursue this wretched policy of going for Liberty and Slavery, it could never be guilty of insulting that grand Soldier of Freedom by inviting him to identify himself, his magnificent fortunes and his worldwide fame, with this wretched policy. Our Government will never invite Garibaldi to take part with it, until it shall have risen to the purpose of conquering the enemy by whatever means. Not till then will he consent to take part with it.
By the way, is there not some danger that, if the
<c02>
North shall continue her present unfriendly and contemptuous attitude towards the four and a half millions of Northern and Southern blacks, this attitude will, especially when combined with Southern professions and promises, have the effect to bring this mighty element into a sincere, and as appalling as sincere, identification with our foe?
Is it a wonder that every step of Jefferson Davis is confident and defiant, and that so many of Abraham Lincoln's are timid and hesitating? It is not. For, whilst Jefferson Davis represents a people of one heart and one purpose, Abraham Lincoln is obliged to pause, and calculate how far and how fast such men as you, and the masses you influence, will let him go. Unhappy man!-for, whilst the other President is cheered and strengthened by the entire devotion to his cause of all around him, our President is under the constant and withering remembrance that it will depend upon his success in conciliating the enemy at home, whether the country will be able to conquer its other and less dangerous enemy. Simpleton that I was for believing that the shots at Fort Sumpter would turn all the Republicans, yes, and all the Democrats into Americans, and thus make the war a very short one! Having never worn the chains, nor experienced the debauchment of party, I was ignorant how hard it is to break the one, or get cured of the other.
You profess to be in favor of "the vigorous prosecution of the war."Of course you do-for the people are; and to get influence with them, you must make them believe that you are. But there is only one way for you to be what you profess to be at this point It is to help the Government carry on the war. But you point to "the hundreds of thousands"of Democrats in the Army to prove that you are helping the Government to carry it on. In vain!-for this only proves that they are helping-not that you are. All honor to those "hundreds of thousands"! and all dishonor to you! Deeply do you wrong them, insultingly do you degrade them, by identifying yourselves with them. In this dark hour of our country are they, like you, against its Government? No, they are fighting for it. Or do they, like you, refuse to co-operate with Republicans for the-salvation of the country? No- God bless them! they rise far above such meanness and wickedness, and stand shoulder to shoulder with Republicans. I cannot affirm that you will not succeed in bringing over the Democratic masses to your guilty ground; but I can affirm that you do not represent them now.
You do not fail to extol the Constitution. Of course not. Messrs. Breckinridge, May, Burnett, Vallandigham do not. For the politician not to extol it. when his purpose is to gain something from Americans, would betray as great a lack of cunning as would the omission of the hypocrite to commend the Bible, when he would gain something from Christians. But, gentlemen, I trust an indignant public will teach you that the present is not the proper time for turning men's minds from the Country to the Constitution-from their urgent duties, amidst the appalling necessities of the one, to their composed study of the requirements and their prolonged admiration of the merits of the other. It is but a poor sort of philanthropy which distresses itself over the great value of the clothes that the drowning man is carrying with him to the bottom. Very unseasonable is the reading of the "Rules of the Hotel"to its inmates, when the Hotel is on fire. But not more so than to remind Americans of the Rules of the Federal Constitution, when rebels are at their throats.
I do not expose myself to the charge of making light of the Constitution by setting the country above it. For much more have I written, and much more have I spoken for it, than has any other Democrat, living or dead. And it is not for parts of the Constitution that I have written and spoken: but for every line and letter of it. And I have not dishonored the Constitution and its Authors by admitting it to be necessary to go outside of it for proofs of its meaning; but I have honored both by insisting that it is its own sufficient interpreter.
The cry of "The Constitution! The Constitution!!"is at once the most hypocritical and mischievous of all the cries with which treason is filling the land. Our Government is earnestly and honestly intent on. saving the nation; and it is for the life of the nation that our Government be confided in and sustained. Whoever then seeks to weaken its bonds is a traitor. But of the most wicked and effective form of treason are they guilty, who, taking advantage of the popular idolatry of the Constitution, unsettle the popular confidence in the Government, by charging it with disregard of the Constitution.
I hope, gentlemen, that you are not traitors. But, if you are not, then are you greatly to be pitied for so strongly seeming to be what you are not. If you are not more concerned to conquer the Republican Party than to conquer the Rebels, then never did any men's attitude more belie their spirit. That your purpose is to inspire your Party with the deepest distrust of the Government is too obvious for even you to deny. That your success in this would complete the ruin of your country, you may not see. Nevertheless, you would see it, were you not blinded by party zeal. I think you will not succeed. I think you will not be able to carry with you the County and Town leaders of your Party, much less the party itself. Strong as is the partisan spirit in your Party, I think the spirit of patriotism in it is stronger. I believe you will not be able to rally an opposition Party at the North. As there is but one Party at the South, so there, will be but one at the North. All the South is for the Rebellion, and all the North will be against it. I believe that the Government will stand, and that you will fall. I believe that the Democratic as well as the Republican Party will consent to postpone the prosecution of party purposes, and the gratification of party predilections, until the Rebellion shall be conquered, and the country shall be safe. That done, and I shall be as willing to see each Party go its own way, as I shall be glad to see all the wrongs of the South (if there are any) abundantly redressed, when she shall have ceased from her Conspiracy, and laid down her arms. But a curse on the Party that raises its head before the war is ended! And not one word of peace, not one leaf of the olive-branch, nor one concession, however small, to the rebels, so long as they arc rebels. Much as they are worth, and they are worth much, because they are our fellow-men, the Government and the Nation are worth, vastly more: and both Government and Nation will perish, if there shall be the slightest stooping to those who are in arms against both.
You would have it understood that the Republican Party would consent to "the separation of the States."I confess that I preferred such separation, if peaceful, to war. But the Republican Party has never proposed it. There is not one Republican in one hundred who would consent to it. Moreover, there are ten Democrats who would, where there is one Republican who would.
I have not failed to notice that, in your Call of the Convention, you too put party below patriotism. But in vain is it that you do so. "Actions speak louder than words."Never, after you declined the generous No-Party Proposition of the Republicans, has it been in your power to profess yourselves to be above party, and yet enjoy the reputation of being sincere. Your mistake was a great one. Cunning cannot correct it. The only remedy is your repentance.
GERRIT SMITH.
Peterboro', August 13, 1861.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Times communicates the intelligence that Government has been informed, from the North, of the formation of an organization which threatens very much to complicate existing difficulties. The correspondent says:-
"No reliable information has yet been obtained of the extent of the society, but its purposes have been pretty clearly defined. It seems to be based upon a religious philanthropy, and imbued with the belief that a great Christian duty is to performed by embracing the present opportunity to free the negroes of the South. There is little doubt but that large numbers of men, impressed with this sentiment, and with the additional incentive of fulfilling a patriotic purpose, have urgently pressed upon the Government the propriety of furnishing the arms and material necessary for putting this scheme afoot, and that had the Government, three months ago, given the least aid, the rebels of the South would now have to confront a terrible enemy at their own thresholds. The prompt discountenance of the Government, it was supposed, had put a stop to this enterprise; but it appears only to have delayed it. Private contributions have been invoked, and with extraordinary success, and the project appears now to be assuming definite shape and excessive proportions. It will be pushed, if possible, beyond the interference of the Government"
The way to put an end to the war, and all machinations growing out of it, is for the government officially to "squelch out"slavery, under the war power.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 1861.
SECESSION AND THE WAR.
A replication from our unknown correspondent, "J. W."to some criticisms upon his first communication, may be found in another column. It is not our habit to prolong a personal discussion with any one. Endeavoring at all times to state our sentiments in plain Language, tersely and without circumlocution, we are content to submit them to the good sense and honest judgment of our readers, without needless repetition.
We hardly know where to find "J. "W."on the question of Southern secession. He now says that he disapproves of that secession; nevertheless, he adds- "You deny that the Secessionists have any cause, while the colonies had the greatest, to change their mode of government. A disinterested arbitrator could alone come to a fair decision on this point."Is the question, then, of so difficult solution, that, because of our geographical position, we are disqualified from rendering an impartial verdict? If so, why does he venture to condemn "the present secession of the South "? For wherein he disables our judgment, he cripples his own. "As a general thing, extremists are both wrong."That may be; but who, in this case, are the extremists? Are the President and his Cabinet, because they are endeavoring to preserve the government which they are under oath to uphold, to be put in this category? Are Generals Scott, McClellan, Wool, Fremont and 
Banks-are the brave soldiers under their command-extremists? Is every one an extremist, who sees no justification whatever for the traitorous course of the Secessionists? There were but two parties in the Revolutionary struggle-to wit, the Colonies and Great Britain: were the former extremists, and so unable to "come to a fair decision "respecting their alleged grievances? Or did they not make a just issue-so just that the whole civilized world, Great Britain included, has since recognized the rectitude of their course, and applauded the spirit by which they were actuated? But the present issue is equally just on the side of the government, and such will be the verdict of mankind. It was truthfully said by Hon. Owen Lovejoy, at its commencement, that there had never been go causeless and inexcusable a rebellion since the revolt of the apostate angels, as described by Milton. No language of impeachment or condemnation is too severe to apply to the rebels. Theirs is perjured villany, colossal criminality, unmatched diabolism. In the most malignant sense, they are humani hostes generis. In their present attitude, they deserve the execration of heaven and earth.
"If partisans were right,"says "J. W.", "no intermediator in the shape of law would be necessary."But the position we hold toward the administration is not that of a partisan: we neither voted for it, nor act under it. For more than a quarter of a century, we have stood aloof from all participation in the government, for reasons satisfactory to our own conscience- neither casting a ballot in any instance, nor endorsing any political party as such. Our mission has been to criticise and condemn, more or less, all parties, and every succeeding administration. In consequence of its pro-slavery guaranties, as recognized and acted upon by the nation ever since its adoption,-and nothing more positive or conclusive than this assent can or need be adduced,-we have steadily proclaimed the U. S. Constitution to be, (in the language of the prophet,) "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell,"and pronounced the certainty of its overthrow. Under these circumstances, we have no "partisan "feelings to gratify, but occupy a thoroughly independent stand-point, so that we can render true judgment between the contending parties at the present time; and we say, on the merits of the issue, that the conduct of the Secessionists combines all conceivable perfidy and crime, and that they are brigands and pirates on a scale unparalleled in the annuls of human depravity; and we further say, that they have received neither wrong nor menace from the government, and that all their charges against it are lies of the first magnitude, coined in the mint of an infernal malignity, and circulated to subserve the purposes of a satanic ambition and a soul-imbruting system.
"But you do not seem to see,"says "J. W.", "that the merit of the case is not made a part of the Declaration: there is no exception: it says, 'All just government is only by consent of the governed'-the degree of oppression, or indeed any at all, is not a part of the theory."What version of the Declaration of Independence our anonymous friend may have in his possession, we do not know; but ours reads as follows:-
"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these, are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That, to secure these rights, governments, are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that, whenever am/ form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that government long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and, accordingly, all experience hath shown, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But, when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object, evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future security. Such has been the, patient sufferance of these colonies, and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former systems of government. The history of the present king of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having, in direct object, the establishment of an absolute tyranny over these States. To PROVE THIS, LET FACTS BE SUBMITTED TO A CANDID WORLD."
What, now, becomes of the assertion of our correspondent? Is "the merit of the case not made a part of the Declaration "? Is not "the degree of oppression, or indeed any at all, a part of the theory "? Why, from the time when an instrument first became inscribed upon parchment to the present, none more guarded, none more lucid, none more condemnatory of every thing savoring of lawless usurpation, or factious discontent, or frivolous complaint, was ever recorded, than the Declaration of Independence; and it is as gross an absurdity, and as great an outrage, to attempt to find in it even the slightest justification of the rebellious South, as it would be for the "father of lies "to quote the Sermon on the Mount in favor of all deadly sins! See what the revolutionary fathers asserted as fundamental and self-evident truths-for it will bear recapitulation:-
1. The endowment of the whole human race, by their Creator, with an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness:
2. Governments are instituted to secure these rights:
3. Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it:
4. Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes:
5. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same end, evinces a design to reduce the people under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future security.
Such was the theory of the revolutionary fathers in regard to rebellion, or the substitution of one form of government for another in self-defence. In what did they find their justification for withdrawing their allegiance from the mother country? In the fact that "such has been the patient sufferance of these colonies: the history of the present king of Great Britain is a history of REPEATED INJURIES AND USURPATIONS, all having, in direct object, the establishment of
<c04>
on absolute tyranny over these states. To prove this, let FACTS "be submitted to a candid world."
How iron-linked the logic-how grand the theory- how forcible and accurate the statement-how discriminating and just the exceptions in favor of revolution-how ample their justification, by their own standard, through a long and bitter experience-and how manly and sublime their closing appeal, "To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid world "! But had those facts been wanting-instead of them, had lies been substituted-and had only a factious and lawless temper of mind, in the furtherance of a thoroughly despotic and inhuman object, been displayed-would they not have covered themselves with infamy, and made their revolution abhorrent to mankind? They were not thus inconsistent in the issue they presented, but cheerfully put themselves on trial before a candid world, according to the FACTS, and received an applauding acquittal.
To which of these specifications do the Southern confederites subscribe? Do they maintain that all men are created equal, and possess an inalienable right to liberty? Or have they not expressly made slavery the corner-stone of their political edifice? Are they not in revolt with sole reference to the safety, extension and perpetuity of that horrible system? They believe governments are (or, rather, should be) instituted to secure the rights of men-stealers and traffickers in human flesh, and not the rights of the people. And as for any "injuries and usurpations"they have to complain of under the government, nothing of the kind has occurred in a single instance. So far from it, they have always exercised controlling power in the government, from the administration of Jeferson to that of Buchanan inclusive.
Of course, we do not need reminding that the revolutionary fathers were subsequently untrue to their own Heaven-attested Declaration, inasmuch as they either held slaves personally, or by general complicity; but their infidelity did not affect the doctrines promulgated by them in that immortal instrument. Had they been faithful and uncompromising, no "slaveholders' rebellion"would now be desolating the country.
"J. W."claims, by long and close study, "to be a tolerable judge of the laws of political economy."If he thinks that driving millions of laborers to unrequited toil, under the sole stimulus of the lash, and making them as marketable as cattle and swine, can accumulate general wealth, or even "make both ends meet"by the severest calculation, we are quite sure he is laboring under a delusion. No prosperity, by the flat of Almighty God, can be the natural product of "the sum of all villanies"The tendency of the South is steadily and irresistibly to bankruptcy. This is not altered by the fact that the free labor, and manufacturing skill, and commercial enterprise of the North derive from the raw material of cotton remunerative compensation and increasing wealth. No thanks to the Southern oppressors! No-but thanks to a just God who has so ordered it. Every branch of Northern industry would be greatly benefitted by the abolition of slavery; so that neither Northern capital nor labor has any pecuniary motive for the prolongation of that wasteful and destructive system. "Cottonocracy"and "shipocracy"alike, though now blind to the fact, would reap much larger rewards if free labor were substituted for slave labor at the South. We "speak the words of truth and soberness."
In order that our correspondent may advance in his politico-economical studies, we advise him to "read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest"Helper's Impending Crisis, the 28th chapter of Deuteronomy, and the 58th chapter of Isaiah-in the last of which he will find a very simple and thoroughly effective plan, divinely prescribed, for the abolition of slavery, with all its results duly set forth. Read-believe-rejoice!
A BRIEF PEOTEST.
Though cherishing a profound respect and loving regard for our noble friend and champion, Wendell Phillips, I must enter my protest against assimilating the cause of the man-stealing tyrants and traitors of the South-who, having misgoverned, corrupted and disgraced the Republic for sixty years, are striving to kill, because they can no longer misgovern it-to the cause of the enslaved Poles, Hungarians and Italians!
The parties to this war are the free whites, so called, of the North, and the slaves of the South, of the one part, and the robbers, oppressors, despisers, aye, and murderers of both, of the other part.
John Randolph, in a call upon some ladies in Virginia, found them busy in making up clothes to be sent to the Greeks at the time of their war with the Turks. "Ladies,"said that hater of shams, "the Greeks are at the door!"Can we be mistaken as to who are the Greeks, and who the Turks, of this contest, or on which side the laws of God fight and the blessing of God will rest? It is the battle of Armageddon, between good and evil spirits. I have nothing to say as to the sides which the spirits must respectively take, but I will say that the sides are not by their accession made equal, and the two causes confounded.
"Thrice is he armed, who hath his quarrel just,
And he but naked, though locked up in steel,
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted."
C.
THE CAUSE OF THE WAR.
"The cause of the war"begins to be an important topic for discussion at the present time, notwithstanding the attempt of the newspapers throughout the land to settle the question.
All the leading journals in the loyal States deny that the slavery question has any thing to do with regard to our waging war against the South. They say we are fighting the South because they rebel against the Government-because they have robbed us of the Federal property, and refused to obey our laws.
Now, is the American press so weak and blind as to suppose that the masses of the people are to be satisfied with this explanation? Are thirty millions of the most intelligent people on earth to accept this version of the matter, without consulting their own true knowledge in regard to it? Hand a child two tin rattles, one with and the other without the rattler, and see how quick the silent one is discarded. So it is to-day with us, in regard to the complicated and unsatisfactory definition of the "Cause"of the war handed out to us by the press. We do not accept it- the "rattle"is not there.
But, back of all this, we hear the rattle of the chains of four million slaves. This is the rattle which reverberates in the heart of the American people, and it will continue until the last link is severed that holds men in bondage. It would cost but a very few lives, and little money, to conquer the South, if we would apply the weapon to the heart of the enemy-touch her in the tenderest spot, (slavery,) and the victory is ours. But we are told "that time has not yet come."Why not come now, and save thousands of dollars, and millions of lives, which we must pay? I told a negro, the other day, that I thought our Government, ere long, would furnish arms to "contraband"fugitives. "Never,"exclaimed the negro, "as long as Massachusetts refuses to receive us into the ranks at home."I fear this is too true. But the time must soon come when the negro will be allowed to fight for his liberty. A. W.
The Atlantic Monthly for September is received. Contents:-1. The Shakespeare Mystery. 2. The Bath. 3. Saccharissa Mcllasys. 4. My Odd Adventure with Junius Brutus Booth. 5. My Out-Door Study. G. A Sermon in a Stone. 7. Agnes of Sorrento. 8. The Aquarium. 9. The Young Repealer. 10. Bread and the Newspaper. 11. "Under the Cloud and through the Sea."12. Journal of a Privateersman. 13. The Advantages of Defeat. 14. Ode to Happiness. 15. Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 16. Reviews and Literary Notices. Recent American Publications.
A very interesting number, as usual. Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington Street, Boston, Publishers.
<c05>
GEN. BUTLER'S CONTRABAND OF WAR.
PART III.-[CONTINUED.]
In the last war with Great Britain, 1812-15, no protracted incursions were made into Southern territory, and few descents on the slave coast, yet a large number of slaves escaped to the British camps and ships of war. They were so stupid as to run away from "happiness"to "misery,"from "kind masters"to "Cochrane the pirate."Those persons were all treated and disposed of conformably to the precedent established by Carleton; but the British government, contrary to its course in that case, consented to make compensation for them.
In 1836 Gen. Jessup, commanding in the Florida war, made, with the approval of Cass, Secretary of War, an alliance with the Creek nation, by which on certain conditions they were to furnish from six hundred to a thousand men to serve during the war. One of the conditions was that they should have "all the plunder they might make from the Seminoles."By that it was understood, that they were to have and to hold.as slaves all the negroes they might capture. This was a revival of the most ancient barbarism, but quite in keeping with the general character of the contest. The Creeks captured about one hundred men, women and children. These persons having been brought, after a long imprisonment and various vicissitudes, within the military department of Gen. Gaines, were protected by him as prisoners of war, and sent off, in the style of Sir Guy Carleton, in company with their friends and allies, the Seminoles, to the West Mr. Giddings, in his "Exiles of Florida,"has given an exciting and humiliating narrative of infinite chicaneries practiced by the Executive, the War Department and Indian Bureau to effect the enslavement of those unoffending people. In contemplating the dreadful moral and physical desolation, which marked that wretched marauding of a slave democracy and government for innocent blood and merchantable bones, it is inexpressibly grateful to listen to the wholesome voice of one honest and energetic man; and to witness the triumph of an earnest and timely utterance in behalf of justice, liberty and humanity.
Mr. Giddings, in one of his late letters, sums up the arguments of Gen. Gaines as follows:-
"He asserted that in time of war all slaves are belligerents as much as their masters. The slave men cultivate the earth, and supply provisions. The women cook the food, nurse the wounded and sick, and contribute to the maintenance of the war, often more than the same number of males. The slave children equally contribute whatever they are able to support the war.
He could enter into no judicial examination of the claim of one man to the bones and muscles of another as property. As a military officer, maintaining the Federal Government by force of arms, he could not know what the laws of Florida were. He could be guided only by the laws of war, and the laws of any State must yield to the safety of the Federal Government."-Doc. House of Representatives, 2d Session 25th Congress, No. 225.
Under color of a sale by the Creek captors to an American dealer in human flesh, an attempt was made by civil process to wrest his prisoners from the possession and jurisdiction of the General. He appeared at the bar, and vindicated the rights of the prisoners and his own authority, citing in support of both the well settled laws and usages of war. In conclusion he said:-
"I have not yet learned while acting in my official capacity on oath, to take the responsibility of doing that which is repugnant to law, unjust and iniquitous, as I verily believe any favor shown to this claim would be."
In 1838 Gen. Taylor, having succeeded Jessup in the chief command, but not in unscrupulousness and subserviency to slaveholders and hunters, refused to deliver to them his negro prisoners, demanded by a crowd of Florida claimants as fugitive slaves. He told them he had no prisoners but "prisoners of war."They insisted upon seeing them. He replied that "no man should examine his prisoners for such a purpose,"and he ordered them to quit his camp.
The world has adjudged it a crime and a blunder in Bonaparte, that he did not at the commencement of the Russian campaign emancipate, re-nationalize and arm the Poles. But he was seduced and entangled by his fatal Austrian alliance, just as Great Britain was in the war of the Revolution, by her tenderness of the supposed interests and deference to the wishes of the great slave-holding Tories of the Carolinas.
A delusion from which even the truest and most thoughtful are scarcely exempt, prevails in respect to local limitations of the war power. That power, like the Constitution, acts upon persons without necessary reference to State lines. As the civil jurisdiction of the United States extends to all citizens and residents in peace, so in this civil war the military is capable of reaching all rebels wherever they may be. Congress has declared and the President has proclaimed no war against State nor section. A gang of conspirators have defied the laws, seized the muniments and sought the life of the nation. War thus evoked aims its weapons at the conspirators and parricides, their aiders and abettors, wherever they may be found, the same in Missouri as in South Carolina or Eastern Virginia, and the same in Western Virginia and Maryland as in either.
True, there may he no need of marching or mustering an army at every point where traitors may confederate and make war upon their country, either directly or by giving aid and comfort to the slave confederacy. But whether such need exist, is a question for the superior civil and military authorities of the nation. It is for them, in the exercise of a sound discretion, to determine where there are traitors and enemies sufficiently formidable by their numbers, or by the secret complicity of local authorities, for the hand of war to smite. Wherever that may he, within the boundaries of the Union, or on the wide ocean, there may they, and must they, if faithful to the duties with which they are charged by this people, so prodigal of their blood and treasure, strike. And the seat or seats of war thus determined, do by necessary implication, so long as they remain such, fall under the dominion of martial law; and all persons and property, within the sphere of the operations of armies, must be subject to the rules and exigencies of war. As far as circumstances admit, it is best perhaps in practice, to blend by common consent the action of the civil and military powers, leaving to the former the exercise of all ordinary magisterial and administrative functions, which do not impinge upon the sterner, and, for the time being, more necessary and vital activities of the armed.
By the Constitution, property of every description, belonging to any citizen or resident of the United States, may be taken for public use, "just compensation"being made therefore. This is also a war power, and was exercised by both parties in the Revolutionary war, each giving compensation to their friends, and stripping those whom they respectively regarded as enemies.
Thus I have shown:-
1. That we have at present an unquestionable legal right to receive or capture slaves to any extent within and from the territory of the enemy; and to receive those fleeing from traitors and enemies everywhere, whether they be considered as persons or property.
2. That we may employ, enlist or discharge them, paying them fairly in the two first cases, and rendering them in the last such protection and aid as we would any loyal white deserter or refugee citizen, escaping to us from our enemy's hands.
3. That there is no power conferred by law, municipal or international, upon our armies to deliver them up, nor to arrest, detain nor use them, except with their consent and at an equitable remuneration.
4. That it has been in violation of law, as well as of their duty to God and their country, that our military and naval officers, seamen and soldiers, have surrendered and sent them back; that in every such case a grave offence has been committed, for which obedience to orders affords no justification, inasmuch as all orders to that effect from whatever source are unlawful.
5. That no power exists to arrest by the military
<c06>
arm, or return a fugitive slave to any claimant, however loyal he may profess or prove himself to be.
6. That the Government has a clear right, either directly or by the leaders of its armies, to call the slaves from service on the side of those attempting the life of the Republic, to the side of those defending it. As property, they may be taken-1, to weaken our enemies, strengthen ourselves, and hasten the achievement of a beneficial and permanent peace; 2, as a removal of the cause of the war, and the only possible preventive of future wars-whether we form one or more powers of perpetual discords in a delusive peace; and 3, as a-necessary punishment of crimes, habitual to Southern slaveholders as a body. Among these may be reckoned.
1. Thousands of cowardly and cruel personal outrages and murders of Northern citizens, "who have committed no offence."
2. Scores of felonious assaults in both Houses of Congress, culminating in an attempt to assassinate a Senator in his seat, a deed applauded, defended and memorized with a unanimity unusual even for the South; and all for the suppression of freedom of the debate in the highest legislative and executive council of the nation.
3. And with the same intent fatal duels, frequent challenges to the duel, continual menace of the duel, and deadly insults designed to provoke it or degrade him who refuses it, whereby the Senators and Representatives of the North have been placed, during the whole existence of the common government, in the insidious dilemma of violating law and moral principles, and incurring the general condemnation and aversion of their friends and neighbors at home; or personal humiliation and fashionable ostracism at the seat of Government; or of compounding with all three by knuckling to insolence, abandoning rights, duty and self-respect, and Straying constituent, and country.
4. Desecration of the ballot-box, the sceptre of the sovereign people, and committing some hundreds of brutal murders, together with rapes, and sacking and burning of towns and dwellings in Kansas, for the extension of slavery.
5. Texas acquired by filibustering, and in sequence a cowardly and rapacious war, unconstitutionally begun, and unmercifully prosecuted against weak, unoffending, suffering and distracted Mexico.-both transactions involving the guilt of myriads of murders, and both for the extension of slavery.
6. Other fillibusterings in Lower California. Northern Mexico, Cuba and Central America, and there with some ten thousand other murders, for the extension of slavery.
7. Punic faith in violating a compact of peace of their own proposing, and enviously destroying great interests of their own creating.
8. The systematic violation of letters and printed correspondence for nearly thirty years, at the pleasure of every postmaster or of his familiars, throughout the entire South.
9. Proscription of honest and capable men, and the bestowment of official honors and emoluments upon the incompetent and dishonest, until the honors had become null and the emoluments the rewards of prizefighters at elections-the pay of mercenaries, enlisted to extend slavery and maintain the baleful predominance of the Slave Power, whereby the exorcise of the most vital function of the government, the dispensations of that earthly providence, called federal patronage, had long degenerated into a mean and base barter between sectional jealousy, ambition and rapacity on the one part, and individual greed on the other-an unexampled and frightful system of bribery and corruption-in effect, a new slave trade, wherein "white slaves"have been bought and sold in the District, and in the interior of the White House, as regularly as black ones outside of it.
10. Burning wretched bondmen at the stake, sometimes by sentence of the law, often by mobs, without a single effort, public or private, to efface this horror of the age.
11. Sacrificing by over-driving and under-keeping by cruel and unusual punishments, and by sudden and mortal violence, more thousands of human victims to the god of gain than were offered up by the Carthagenians, from a fur higher motive, in their Moloch.
12. Reviving slave trading piracy, and inaugurating Jeff. Davis piracy.
13. Conspiring and making war for the destruction of their country, because they are no longer permitted to pervert its power, corrupt its morals, and disgrace its name.
As persons, all the slaves are "within our reach"by means of that undying love of personal liberty, which glows in every human bosom. To their quickened sense, the dead silence of despotism only makes of the South a whispering gallery. The smallest mutter from the Cabinet or the camp of liberty to them reaches with electric speed around the vast dome, and can summon at a moment myriads to our side, making them rapturous defenders of the nation, instead of forced assistants of its bloody assailants. D. L. c.
ANOTHER LETTER FROM "J. W."
NEW YORK, August 12,1861. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
It had not been my intention to offer any further remarks, in relation to the matter of my communication to your journal, as published on the 2d August; merely wishing to bring to the notice of sincere Abolitionists, rather a new, but yet it is believed a correct view, of the motives and purposes of the war, viz., that it is an attempt by the Northern aristocracy to keep slavery in the Union, under the Constitution that guaranties it. Hence, that the statement of many journals, that the abolition of slavery is the intention, I look upon as altogether fallacious. The opinion of the legal officer of the government, published in our papers of to-day, can only confirm the view I have stated. Even captive or runaway slaves are to be restored or paid for in due season. Your series or remarks upon my article were, as an old friend (perhaps next to Dr. Channing, the very oldest sincere Abolitionist) states, "no reasons, only illustrates and declamations"; hence, perhaps, it did not need to offer any further observations. I would ask, however, as respects your 7th, and last point, (that "J. W. has nothing but sneers and censures, for the North and apologies and excuses for the South,") to have pointed out where the latter exist. On the contrary, J. W. disapproved of the present secession of the South, whether it had a doubtful right or not, as explained in my article, and echoed in one m the Dublin Mail of July 20, * (which ought to be a neutral print, if any one can be.) If, however, the Liberator believes in no such thing as neutrality; that they who do not take a side must be wrong; than its 7th remark is perfectly natural. As to the 6th remark, J. W. admits that it is the right of all others, eqaully with the secedcrs, to judge to the "causa <illegible> or necessity of secession. Great Britain took exactly that view of the case in 1776. So did France-. Neverthless, such judgment on the part of others they are bound clearly to prove, from the agreement. all. If that makes it a matter of doubt, it is expediency forms the judgment, not facts. In construing a law-document, we take facts, not expediency, and ask what clearly denned rights either party has under the agreement. If one has been omitted to be considered or noticed at all, the opinion is but an inference either way.
The 5th remark of yours is answered by the same argument. You deny that the secession have any 
"A number of then States declare that faith has not been kept with them in the compact, of confederation. Whether they possess the right to so terminate the connection, is neither assumed nor denied by the deed of Union. This silence is claimed by each side in the quarrel as favorable to its own cause. What we have to say is this, that it is something more than mournful, it is monstrous, it is an outrage and disgrace to humanly that, on a point that may be ruled either way, the shocking spectacle of an attempted subjugation of those independent States, who merely ask for self-government and freedom to decide their own destinies. We say deplorable, even if the Southern States wet merely colonies."
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
cause while the Colonies had the greatest, to change Their mode of government. A disinterested arbitrator could alone come to a fair decision on this point If partisans were right, no intermediator in the shape of law would be necessary. As a general thing, extremists are both wrong. But you do not seem to see, that the merit of the case is not made a part of the Declaration; there is no exception; it says, ”All just government is only by consent of the governed"-the degree of oppression, or indeed any at all, is not a part of the theory; and Mr. Lincoln, in Congress, January 12,1848, says,” Any people anywhere, having the power, have a right to rise up, shake off the existing government, and form a new one that suits them better; or any portion of a people may do so.” I repeat, then, that the right of secession was a doubtful one; not that clear case to warrant secession and civil war, nor coercion; and so thinks the Dublin Nation, as aforesaid. 
As to remark number three, it is readily conceded that the Southern leaders believed that ”slavery had little or no security under the new order of things"; but that is no sort of argument against my position as respecting a Northern” cottonocracy” and ”shipocracy," who had grown rich out of slave labor, which leads me to remark number two.” J. W. attributes the great prosperity of the North to this very institution of slavery," and, ”we answer that it evinces not only interior demoralization of spirit, but gross ignorance of the laws of political economy.” Now, a, J. W. was an associate of Daniel Webster of the Free-trade party in 1820, and has ever since paid steady attention to the subject, he ought to be a tolerable judge of the laws and merits of political economy. The argument in the Liberator is, that slavery is the sum of all villanies; ergo, its labor has not only bankrupted itself, but been a positive loss to the North;” it has cost the North a vast deal more than it has ever produced.” Aha! that's it, is it? Why, then, did not the North cut loose from it thirty years ago, as a simply prudential measure? Again, ”if free labor had from the beginning been substituted for slave labor, the whole country would be thousands of millions richer than it is”; but we are speaking now of the North, not the whole country. Besides, what is meant by free labor? Black labor or white? Free black Labor has existed in Hayti for more than half a century, but there is less trade there now, than there was when we were colonies even. Is free white labor meant? If so, it is not unlikely that, did the Southern climate suit a free white population, the whole country might have been millions richer; but it does not follow that the North, under such a competition, would have been. There must certainly be a profit from the labor of four millions of slaves; and if, as the Liberator says,” slavery is not a self-sustaining institution-never makes both ends meet, &c-," where does the profit go to? Is not J. W. right in saying the North gets it? The Liberator says, ”The simple fact is, that the South grows a valuable raw material, which the free North, by her mechanical ingenuity, and manufacturing and commercial enterprise, is enabled to convert into valuable articles of merchandise, &c.” Exactly so; the Liberator has hit the mark; but does the North do all this without profit? Agriculture at the South cannot make” both cads meet," but how about the working up its products''. Is not this species of industry in all countries the most lucrative? How, then,” has the South cost the North a vast deal more than it ever produced”? This raw material is certainly the foundation, on which Northern” mechanical ingenuity," &c., converts it into such valuable results. In short, by the Liberator's own showing, my saying is proved, that” the North gets the kernel, and the South the mere shell.” Would it be so, if it were all free labor at the South,-black or white? Would not the profits be more equally divided, even if more raw material were produced I So long as all, or nearly all, the industry and enterprise are at the North, must she not of necessity have the” best of the bargain”? The Liberator itself proves it; and, therefore, can the conclusion be escaped, that the interest of the North is deeply in slave labor, and a war well worth while to retain it? On the other hand, the interest of the real friend of the slave is peaceable separation; for while we have him in the Union, it is even more the interest of the Northern manufacturer, than the Southern planter, to make him work to the utmost. These may he all new views to Northern anti-slavery men, but let them be examined. 
Lastly, as to remark number one, as to seeing no feasible project for the abolition of slavery-" This indicates that with him, liberty is not a principle, is not the natural condition of man," (and then a long list of sentiments and general truisms. )Now, J. W. assumes that the North sees no feasible project for the abolition of prostitution or gambling; perhaps the Liberator sees none.” This indicates that, with him, virture is not a principle. ”This is exactly the same argument. Many a nation has desired to abolish these vices, none have over succeeded beyond regulating; and why? Because a greater evil is apparent. That is the difficulty with slavery. You copy a sermon of Rev. W. J. Potter.” It is not possible, nor desirable, to fix any details of any scheme of emancipation, because we want that the scheme should be fixed by the South itself"; he says, and” the same humanity that bids us give freedom to the slave, bids us do so without anarchy and violence, but with its proper blessings of order, prosperity and peace.” Here we have the whole story. We cannot act without the cordial concurrence of the South, yet we have been trying to make a government matter of it; a forced step without the concurrence of the South. Have we thereby led the South any nearer to any plan of abolition, or the reverse? The South alone, as Mr. Potter says, can form any feasible plan; they alone have the experience. They have (many eminent men) desired emancipation themselves; have they ever shown a feasible plan? Consider what it combines-the education of the slave, the laws of enforcing work, the interest of the master, the interest of the North, and of all the countries depending upon the product of slave labor; the future of four, perhaps ten millions of blacks; the compensation to be made to the masters, as was but thought just by Great Britain in liberating her slaves; the desirability of the present social condition of free blacks, at the North, despised everywhere. Was there ever a question fraught with such stupendous considerations? Can even the Liberator answer it? Such generalization, as exists in remark number one, may be truisms and correct sentiment, such as we all maintain towards prostitution, gambling and intoxication; but, in action, we must be practical. We must see clearly, almost beyond a doubt, every step of our way. It is not enough that we have a correct principle, and apply it hap-hazard, because it is so. We do not go round, and tell every one that such a man is a cheat, be cause he deceives us; yet that is a correct principle almost a duty. Principle and discretion should always So together. Is it a wonder, then, that the write should say that he never saw a completely feasible Plan of abolition, nor heard of one by any eminent statesman or philanthropist? If the Liberator has, it must have transcendent ability, and ought to lay it before the public. J. W. is satisfied, for the present with the immense step forward, of cutting loose slavery from the Northern shoulders; if, as Mr. Potter says, the South only can justly emancipate, they have then the chance, and may be forced to do so in arranging their European business connections. Is not this a better opening than Northern coercion, civil war and bloodshed-even if these were intended for emancipation, instead of the reverse? J. W. 
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, have published the following pieces:-
1. Let me kiss him for his Mother. With brilliant Variations for the piano, by Charles Grobe. 
2. Child of my Heart ”Words by Blanche D'Artois. Music by C. E. Kimball. 
3. Rosalie. O, thou wert bright as opening day. By E. C. Sebastiani. 
4. River Side. Baracolle, by Wm. Horatio Clarke. 
5. La Bella Rose Mazurka. By R. R. French. 
<c02>
THE DESIRABLE RESULT. 
"whate'er thou purposest to do,
With an unwearied zeal pursue.”
The guiding and controlling power in the present struggle, the ultimate occasion whereof is acknowledged to be slavery, is far from exhibiting, in its present stage, a professed radical tendency. In what it may eventuate, in the progress of its career, is quite uncertain. This somewhat depends on the length of the war, the persistence of the contending sections, the favorable or unfavorable results of the successive battles to be fought, the chances of reaction among the people on either side, and the probabilities of the interference of other nations, for various reasons best known to themselves. As the matter now stands, the Northern army is composed of various elements, politically considered. Democrats and old-line Whigs march, shoulder to shoulder, with Republicans of every grade,-their war-shibboleth being ”Defence and vindication of the flag, and preservation of the Union.” Under this sign, they propose to wage the war, to crush the rebellion, to conquer the enemy, and to re-establish the integrity of the Union. Rigid observance of the provisions of the Fugitive Slave Law, determination to discountenance and suppress slave revolts, and Congressional admission that slaves are not only property, but national property, subject to taxation as such by a national law, to defray national expenses, are prominent features thus far developed and maintained both by the Administration and its friends, as well as by the Democrats. All these items tend, to a certain degree, to justify the Southern views on these subjects. They are advocated as proofs of fealty to the Constitution; and yet, on other matters relating to the employment of the navy, at least, and to the Habeas Corpus Act, this instrument is strenuously claimed by many to have been ignored or set aside.
Why this fatherly tenderness on those points, and actual disregard on these, when it is well known and universally admitted what is the real occasion of the war; and when it is evident that a settlement of the irritating question alone can afford a sure guaranty of permanent peace; especially, too, when it is so obvious that a state of peace is the only condition under which the republic can thrive? Foreign nations have their eyes upon us; and their inference of our wishes will be deduced from our practical admissions, which we cannot consistently gainsay, as officially announced by our national policy. They are interested spectators of our acts and their tendency, as affecting their interests. Many of them regard us as freemen, practicing self-government in a land of freedom, which spreads wide open its arms for them to come and participate in our blessings. They consider this country the safety-valve of the world; and our example should convince them that our invitation to them is cordial, and worthy of their acceptance. Can we do this by keeping ourselves in the uncertain quick sands of revolution and civil convulsions? And we avoid these fatal evils without removing their cause? Why then extenuate the matter, till the country is frittered down to impotence? When all are agreed as to the fundamental cause of the difficulty, why not seize the bull by the horns and the hydra by the throat? 
Otherwise, let the Constitution be observed in all its parts, until it may be altered. Let no more governors be appointed by the Executive over the territories; no more organic acts be framed and imposed by Congress to organize territorial inhabitants who have the constitutional right, on the principles of self-government, to choose their own rulers and legislators, as servants, and not as colonial masters; let no more restrictions be harnessed upon Southern chattels than upon Northern, nor the habeas corpus writ be suspended so questionably by the President's sanction; let no menacing ships-of-war be arrayed, without constitutional sanction, against a revolting State, nor the guns of a fort, bought by the whole nation for its defence, be pointed at any part of the nation, till Congress virtually or directly order it to be done; let none of these be done, and there will be no need of their subsequent approval by Congress, and scarcely need of reference to the policy of Washington in the famous Pennsylvania insurrection of 1794. For a violation of these provisions will furnish quite as valid precedents for further violations on future emergencies, as the act of secession, if now countenanced, will be likely hereafter to warrant other acts of a similar nature. And though it may be deemed by some Republicans sufficient excuse for such violations, to plead ”salus populi suprema lex est," we cannot but agree with John Selden, that” there is not anything in the world more abused than this sentence; for we apply it as if we ought to forsake the known law, when it may be (in our opinion) most for the advantage of the people, when it means no such thing. It is not salus populi suprema lex est, but esto: that is, in all the laws you make, have a special eye the good of the people.” Besides being a very learned man, his memory is still more endeared to us by his choice of the motto, LIBERTY ABOVE ALL THINGS. 
The mere physical conflict of war will only demonstrate such facts as the comparative strength, skill, resources, of the respective armies; which is the stronger, more skilful, or more fortunate, and not which is right. It does not even determine whether the clergy and chaplains of the North, differing as they do sectionally, and diverging in rare harmony from their eighteen centuried gospel standard of Peace, are more correct in their imprecations and orisons than Southern preachers. But its effect may add four or five States from the border-line to the free States, and thus weaken the hold of slavery on those farther South, for a future harvest to freedom, and a jubilee release from servitude. No credit therefore, however, will be due to the professed intentions of either army, or of the administration, as now directing. Such result will be incidental. It will rather escape through the interstices of the sack than out of its opened mouth. It does not appear in the programme. We are sure, too, that it energetically agitates the forbidden question; and who can silence the voice?
A separate confederacy might be deemed by some a thorn in the side; but would not an impending fear of another rebellion continually disturb the national repose, and depreciate its value as a member of the world and as a home for its family of freemen, if a mere conquest by physical force be achieved, a forcible re-instatement of the Flag in the South be effected, and the Union be soldered together by an amalgam of powder and bayonet? Would not these add a thistle to the thorn? If compulsion is to be used as the cement, why cannot intermediate conditions be imposed to harden that cement? It is not necessary to exterminate the negro, nor to discard his labor. If he be exactly adapted to raise cotton, sugar and tobacco, and no other class of laborers can supply his place, let him remain at reasonable wages, and the profits will accumulate rapidly to his employer. This would break down both slavery and aristocracy, and give the North a free pass all over the South, thus constitutionally allowing” the citizens of each State all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States," freedom of speech and action, as at home by their own firesides.
In such suggestions, we cannot see any more flagrant violations of the Constitution, which in certain practical respects has become a dead letter, and will doubtless so continue under the present and recent state of things, than have been tolerated for years by all sides. To have a popular instrument observed, it should represent the people's wishes; and if ours needs amendment, our compromise should embrace provisions for the purpose. Nor can we see that war is more profitable than free labor, whether it be black or white. Our aim then should be, in vindicating the flag and the Union, to do something, in the expensive and destructive process, for the enhancement of these emblems in value to this nation and to the world, to us and the world's posterity.
"O. S. M.” next week. We have many more communications on file than we can find room for.
<c03>
EMANOIPATION THE ONLY OURE.
DEAR LIBERATOR:
We all see the evils of slavery at last. We know that the only cure for them is emancipation. Would to God that we had earlier understood that there can be no abiding union or prosperity, save on the basis of liberty to all! We hope we are approaching emancipation. Still, it is at best a blind and tardy progress. Emancipation by force has its objections. It would not leave the slaves in such relations with their masters as would make improvement and progress at all easy. It would remove slavery politically, but not intellectually or morally. The hostility of race would be only increased. The roots of slavery in the pride, the avarice, and the cruelty of the human heart would remain as rank and rife as ever, and would soon send up a yet more poisonous growth of sin. It would irritate the masters so much that they would continue the enemies both of the slaves and of the government. The firmest Union men at the South would suffer the most by a forcible emancipation. To compromise, or to recognize secession, is to give up all possibility of emancipation. Either would be wrong and ruinous. Yet a continued war may temp of us to do one or the other. War itself I can look at only as too wicked a means to be justified by any end. War is to me only a compound of anger, strife, contention, envy, malevolence and revenge, with idleness, debauchery, and general demoralization. There can be no war without the war spirit, without hatred of our brethren. This we do not yet see. While the nation approved of slavery, it saw no evils in slavery. We hare made up our minds that war is right, and closed our eyes to its evils. The evils of war will come upon us only the faster. War must weaken and demoralize us, and thus lessen our power to help the slave. Still, one course remains. The first of August tells us what we ought to do. We can emancipate the slaves, and at the same time pacify their masters. We can make the destruction of slavery the restoration of the Union. We can bring about the only abiding peace, a peace founded on justice, freedom, and universal content. We can make master and slave equals, friends and co-workers. Let government assist every loyal slave State in emancipating, educating, and employing the slaves. Let the portion of the government compensation to the whole expense correspond to the alacrity with which the State accepts the terms. The Northern border States, Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri, have been kept back from emancipation, 1st, by dread of the expense of compensation, and, 2d, by the temptation of the profits of slave breeding for the South. The latter hindrance has perished; let us remove the other also. If we begin with them, there will be so much gaining principle. Other States will soon follow. The government which offers to free them from all the evils of slavery and war, poverty and anarchy, would present the strongest possible claims on their obedience, nay, rather, their gratitude. We can afford to be magnanimous enough to spare their lives and property, and to remove the great obstacle to their prosperity and progress, with little immediate loss, and great ultimate gain to the whole Southern, people, and large immediate profit to the most rich and powerful of the citizens. Is this possible? Yes, for it is right. Is there not at least possibility enough to make the measure worth considering? It would be expensive, but not so expensive as war, for war settles nothing; but emancipation with compensation will settle every thing. It is what must be done first or last, or slavery must continue, and all real union perish. Sooner or later, we must buy and free the slaves, and the sooner, the better. Every day of war makes us less able to offer, and the South less willing to accept.
CAMBRIDGE.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY MISSION.
DANVERSPORT, August 8, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON,-The question, whether, in view of the times, Anti-Slavery men should hold ewer meetings than usual, is being discussed. My interest in the cause is the only excuse that I have for saying a word upon it.
Opinions here are various; but to me the matter appears thus:-To hold them as a mere form is useless; to hold them in mere bravado, or because of opposition, is no better. We injure ourselves, and consequently our cause, when we get off the right track, on either hand. If we make our meetings what we ought to make them, we cannot possibly hold too many, though we tax to the fullest extent all our abilities, moral, intellectual, physical, and pecuniary. But, if in our meetings we forget the grandeur of the cause we advocate, or teach by word or example other principles than those of truth, generosity and justice, or lose aught of faith, honor, magnanimity and high moral sense, we cannot hold too few. It grieves me that our meetings are not all of that high character which the cause demands. Partial failures oftenest arise from the forgetfulness of some of our ablest speakers. At least, they seem to forget when they spend precious time talking upon comparatively small side issues. Excitement and anger almost always come at such times, and they bring with them a more bitter loss than that of wasted hours. Little bickering and personal attacks and disputes have no rightful place in anti-slavery meetings. Nor does it seem to me that taunts and gibes are fittest weapons for anti-slavery uses. Denunciation, bitter and long continued, and carried to the extremes! verge of truthful exaggeration, injures the heart of him who indulges in it, and all who hear it, whether friend or foe.
The work is great before us. The people, at last, are partially awake. Balked by the slaveholders in their usual pursuit of mammon, they look up and stand aghast at the new developments of a tyranny that they never before cared for, or attempted to understand. Many are more willing than ever before to hear and learn something of the vile system that seriously threatens to ruin the nation. Never before was there a better time to speak. But it is not well to anger and disgust all who come to hear us, by words just fitted to arouse the baser passions of a mob. Some of our speakers are unexceptionable in these matters; but a few, I think, would do well, for conscience sake and the good of the cause, to strike a key-note higher in the hearts of men. Extravagant denunciation is the weakest of anti-slavery weapons, but it is so easily wielded by some, that they, perhaps, do not know how excessively they use it. Reformers must always present truths very unpalatable to the unreformed, but that gives no warrant for causeless or unjust attacks. Criticism is needful, often, and wholesome; but, if carried so far as to grievously wound the sense of justice in the minds of reasonable men who are not personally concerned, it must be injurious. Very lately, in one of our meetings, the prejudices of the people were needlessly played upon, until angry retorts were made; and these being paid back in much the same kind, the whole meeting was belittled. It was no lack of earnestness, or ability to aid the cause, that led to such results; but, whatever was the cause, the evil was very apparent, and reached much further than the better influences could follow. The work that anti-slavery men have before them is so great, that no labor should be wasted, and no strength misapplied. The people are to be convinced that the total abolition of slavery is the absolutely necessary work of to-day. They must be taught to comprehend some of the higher principles of Justice, Liberty, and Right. They must be made to feel that, if they could save the remnant of their fortunes, and their own liberties, by helping to hold others in slavery, they would not be worth the cost-that such ineffable meanness would be unworthy any civilized beings-that such wickedness is sure to bring, sooner or later, a deadly curse upon them. They must be made to understand that no wealth of earthly advantages, no strength of numbers, no intellectual greatness, no art of diplomacy, no political jugglery or statesmanship, no wisdom or power of man, can possibly save a people from suffering the utmost penalty of every persistence in crime. And
<c04>
more than this, let Anti-Slavery laborers still try to bring the people to a stronger love of the absolute Right, and to induce them to stand by it at whatever cost, and; with their best efforts, encourage them to grasp the great ideas of the age, and become equal to the demands of the times.
Respectfully. N. P. JR.
THE TRIAL HOUR.
DEAR GARRISON:
Am I too desponding in expressing my forebodings that our trial-hour is at band? To my mind, the clouds are shutting down with thick darkness. There may be a ”Silver lining" the other side, but sober facts and daily observation impel me to deep and rather gloomy reflections. The truth is, among the mass of the people there is nothing but inhumanity towards the negro. His race is hated, and” whom we hate, we injure.” The bare acknowledgment of the manhood of the slave would change the whole tide of affairs.
Politicians are on the alert. Already are they beginning to divide with the choice rather to” reign in hell than serve in heaven.” They seize upon the appalling depression in business-persuade the poor that something must be done to avoid destitution-that the dollar and bread are more than the” nigger," (to use their common and degrading dialect. ) They look toward the suppression of free speech, lusting for power to work mischief on the heads of Abolitionists.
A citizens' or mass meeting was called in Milford last Thursday evening, to induce men to volunteer for the war. At an early stage of the proceedings, the following, among other resolutions, was read and passed unanimously.-
" Resolved, That Abolitionism is not, nor do we wish to have it the issue involved in the present conflict between the North and South; and that we believe the man or party of men, who tramples under foot, or gives to the flames the Constitution of the United States as being” a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," is as deserving of the scaffold as Jeff. Davis and his coadjutors”
True, a large majority of those who composed the meeting were foreigners-recreant countrymen of the land that gave birth to the noble O'Connell. However, the Chairman was a most esteemed gentleman of the Republican party, and several of his associates were present, dissatisfied, no doubt, with the gross character of the meeting, but quite too tame and silent in such an hour. Surely, this is not the time for Abolitionists to ”lie upon their oars"-not the time to suspend our meetings. Now, if ever, we should
-" be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate.”
I have been incited to these reflections by the stirring words of our devoted and ever-vigilant friend, Parker Pillsbury, from whom-on the eve of his departure for the far West-I have just received a timely note:-
" CONCORD, (N. H. ) Aug. 12, 1861.
DEAR FRIEND:-I should haste to Milford, as you desired, but my destiny seems to be ever towards the setting sun. In a fortnight, should my plans succeed, you will bear of mo beyond the Alleghanies. I came near getting mobbed last Sunday, for saying even less of Southern men and means of defence than Gov. Sprague said last week to his Legislature. Phillips was right at Abington on the First. Our Government is a' murderer,' so long as the war goes on as at present. We dare not hang a spy, when we know that all our plans are revealed by him, and the army defeated in consequence. Postpone our meetings! By the woes of the enslaved, NO! It is high treason against Humanity, that should never hope for forgiveness. Let our cry be, as at Marengo, rather-'Push on your column!'
Phillips did well on the First. Why cannot we now cry, All hands to the work! Henry T. Cheever says well, in the last Standard, what is the work of the' Pronounced Abolitionists,' at this time. For one, I will try to do just that, while my voice is as loud as the sparrow's on the louse-top.’'
May Heaven smile upon the faithful labors of our brother, and grant him strength” sufficient unto his day"! G. W. S.
Milford, (Mass. ) Aug. 19, 1861.

THE WAR AND SLAVERY.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-Some weeks ago, in noticing General Butler's twaddle in answer to a rebuke from Governor Andrew, you devoted a few words to the” Horrors of St. Domingo.” In one of Mr. Phillips's speeches, he alluded to an insurrection of slaves in a Danish West India island. The popular ideas on the dangers of freeing slaves are utterly disproved by these two instances: the popular mind will soon open to a demand for such information. In freeing the slaves of the Southern States, the North will seek relief from the intolerable burdens of the present war, and will readily listen to what, from party spirit and religious prejudice, it has heretofore denied, very willing of an excuse to do what its own interest requires. In a thirty years' war on slavery, our friends have accumulated every fact bearing on this subject. Possibly Mr. Phillips has combined them in one of his noble speeches. If so, is it in a pamphlet form? Mrs. Child's ”Right Way, the Safe Way," is invaluable as bearing on British West India emancipation. But the leading facts of all the instances of negro emancipation, condensed in a modest sized pamphlet, will sell well in a few months.
The war looks somewhat discouraging at present. Lyon in the South-West corner of Missouri, and Butler in the South-East corner of Virginia, eight or nine hundred miles apart, with Rosencranz in Western Virginia, and Prentiss at Cairo between, hold the advanced positions of the Northern forces, about forty or fifty miles North of that 36 30 line which your compatriot, the revered Webster, and many other compatriots of yours in Boston, gave us so positively to understand was God's ordained boundary of slavery. I remember at the time I read those eloquent sentences, of feeling glad to be assured of so gratifying a fact by such a great man. I am sorry it don't turn out as Mr. Webster said, and am afraid it will tike a good deal of Boston money to make Mr. Webster's words the things that are, instead of” the things that are not.” The determined spirit of the North in action and words still lacks the high enthusiasm of a contest for principle. The national anthem died ”a-burning.” What was there to sing about? Liberty could not be the burden of the song, for all the warriors, from Gen. Scott down, down to Gen. Butler, have kicked her out of camp: all the lawyers, from Sumner to Breckinridge, have thrust her from legislative halls; have hounded the police after her, as if she had been a drab of low degree. Nobody would acknowledge her with a black face. So they all hoot at her, and call her” nigger.” If here and there a man remonstrates that liberty, whether red, white, or blue, or even black, is still liberty, they howl and gnash their teeth, and ask him with inconsequent logic,” Do you want your daughter to marry a nigger? Is a nigger equal to a white man?” So the goddess is suppressed, and the people scoff at her because just now she is black. But why should she monopolize all the glories of national song? Why don't some enthusiastic Douglas Democrat string his harp to the glories of” Popular Sovereignty”? some tuneful Breckinridge man pipe on ”State Rights"? or some gallant Republican immortalize the theme ”of” Free Soil"? Why, in short, don't Everett compose a hexameter on” The Union, the Constitution, and enforcement of the Laws," and have it sung in the Ledger? The arguments and appeals applied by the Abolitionists to the American conscience are now being seconded by four hundred millions of arguments addressed by Congress to a far more sensitive part of the American organism, viz., its pocket, and the Abolitionists will be called on to furnish the excuse for putting down the slavery at whose bidding they have so long been mobbed, and the National Hymn may yet be sung in the name of Liberty. Respectfully yours,
J. B. LYON,
<c05>
DISLOYAL PAPERS IN NEW YORK.
The following is the presentment made by the Grand Jury in the case of certain papers in New York city. The proceedings occurred in the United States Circuit Court:-
"The Grand Inquest of the United States of America, for the Southern District of New York, beg leave to present the following facts to the Court, and ask its advice thereon:
There are certain newspapers within this district which are in the frequent practice of encouraging the rebels no, in arms against the Federal Government, by expressing sympathy and agreement with them, the duty of acceding to their demands, and dissatisfaction with the employment of force to overcome them. These papers are the New York daily and weekly Journal of Commerce, the daily and weekly Day Book, the Freeman's Journal, all published in the city of New York, and the daily and weekly Eagle, published in the city of Brooklyn. The first named of these has just published a list of newspapers in the free States opposed to what it calls’ the present unholy war'-a war in defence of our country and its institutions, and our most sacred rights, and carried on solely for the restoration of the Government.
The Grand Jury are aware that free governments allow liberty of speech and of the press to their utmost limit, but there is nevertheless a limit. If a person in a fortress or an army were to preach to the soldiers submission to the enemy, he would be treated as an offender. Would he be more culpable than the citizen who, in the midst of the most formidable conspiracy and rebellion, tells the conspirators and rebels that they are right, encourages them to persevere in resistance, and condemns the effort of loyal citizens to overcome and punish them, as an' unholy war'? If the utterance of such language in the streets or through the press is not a crime, then there is a great defect in our laws, or they were not made for such an emergency.
The conduct of these disloyal presses is of course condemned and abhorred by all loyal men; but the Grand Jury will be glad to learn from the Court that it is also subject to indictment and condign punishment.”
THE BURNING OF HAMPTON-THE REBEL INCEN DIARIES CONFESS THEIR GUILT. It will be seen by the following letter, copied from the Petersburg (Va. ) Express, that the rebels confess their guilt in burning the town of Hampton, an act which the Richmond papers have attributed to the Federal troops, and have stigmatized as most cruel and diabolical:-
CAMP AT BARTLETT'S, August 9,1861.
On Wednesday evening, it was decided by General Magruder to be expedient and proper to burn Hampton. In furtherance of this object, just after dark, the troops were moved from in sight of Hampton to another road which approaches nearer to Newport News, and not far from the town. The Old Dominion Cavalry, under command of Capt. Phillips, and the Meeklenburgh Cavalry, under command of Capt. T. F. Goode, and a command of infantry, under Col. Hodges, were detailed for the hazardous purpose of firing the town. The cavalry companies marched in front, and the infantry behind.
Just here I will state that an efficient fortification had been thrown across the main street by the Yankees, but the guns had all been removed. We marched to the fortifications, carried our horses off from the street, and then dismounted. Infantry were detailed to hold our horses while we were to execute the work. We marched down the street, and while a consultation was being held, a brisk fire opened from the sentinels at the bridge upon us. They were supposed to be Tom forty to one hundred strong. An order was then issued for the reinforcement of the infantry, which was no sooner given than Col. Hodges' joined with them in double quick time, and rushed to the spot. The rascals only fired once after the infantry made an attack upon them. They ran off as fast as their cowardly legs could carry them. No one on our side was injured.
We were now ordered to proceed with the burning, and harder work a set of fellows never did. We continued to set fire to house after house, until all were in flames within and below the fortification. A portion of the cavalry companies were then detailed to complete the burning above the fortifications, which they did, and then covered the retreat of the infantry to camp, about three miles distant. The town was most effectually burned, and I feel sure that no person was burnt, though it was about midnight.
That it was a most perilous undertaking will at once be seen from the fact that we were in reach of the shell from Fortress Monroe and the steamers which had been seen lying about, and also the fact that the Yankees had a regiment of infantry not far from the bridge, and could have easily made an attack on us. Having the advantage of the light from the burning houses, they could have opened a most disastrous fire upon us. There was danger, also, of a reinforcement from Newport News, although Gen. Magruder had guarded all points with pickets.
ST. LOUIS, August 14, 1861.
The rebels in this State are conducting their warfare upon principles worthy of Thugs and Comanches. Assassination is their strong point, and they seem to delight in the indiscriminate slaughter of friends and foes. A few days since, an aged" and infirm citizen was shot dead upon his own porch. Two old and peaceable residents of Potosi, Washington county, with their wives and children, are here, stopping at Barnum's Hotel. They were driven from their homes, and spent one night concealed in the woods, to avoid the tender mercies of the rebels. Last Saturday, a friend of mine from Kansas was coming East on the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad, when a volley of a hundred shots was fired into the train from a clump of trees which it had just passed. As he was on the rear platform of the last car, his position was peculiarly exposed; but he dropped flat upon the floor, (as did the passengers inside the cars,) and thus escaped injury. Night before last, a train on the Pacific road, west of Jefferson City, was also fired into from an ambuscade. A rifle ball struck the conductor, Fred. Whipple, entering his right side, penetrating the lungs, and passing completely through his body. Its force was spent as it came out on his left side; his clothing stopped it, and it was afterward found in his boot. Mr. Whipple died in a few hours. He was a native of Springfield, Massachusetts, and a man universally beloved. He leaves a family in California, Missouri. This atrocious practice of firing into railway trains and endangering the lives of women and children, as well as men, will never be suppressed until a terrible example is made of some of the murderers. They should be treated as outlaws from the human race, and shot down wherever they are found. The trains frequently carry, among other passengers, Federal soldiers, and for the remote chance of injuring some of them, they seem willing to shed any amount of innocent blood.
A negro was brought into Washington on Friday, who represents that he was one of a regiment of negroes that took part in the battle at Bull Run, at which time he made his escape, and has since wandered about until he finally got within our lines. He asserts that there are in the rebel army in Virginia from two to three thousand negroes armed with Hall's rifles. Most of them are from further South than Virginia. The negroes from down South, he says, have been taught that they would be butchered if they fell into the hands of the Unionists; but those who have been picked up in Virginia have a different idea, and would all run away if they could. This statement is corroborated by that of another negro, brought in since the battle of Bull Run by the 2d Maine Regiment, who added l hat these negroes had been instructed to pilfer from all the dead and wounded of our men they could find on the field.
ANOTHER PROCLAMATION. The President has issued a Proclamation, dated the 16th, declaring all commercial intercourse between the seceded States and other parts of the United States to be unlawful, and all goods and merchandize passing to or from the said seceded States, with the vessels conveying the same, to be forfeited to the United States. Also, that from and after fifteen days from the date of the Proclamation, all vessels belonging to any inhabitant of the States in rebellion, found at sea or in any port of the United States, will be forfeited.
PHILADELPHIA, August 19th. Pierce Butler was arrested this afternoon by the U. S. Marshal, by order of Mr. Cameron. He was taken to New York this evening, en route to Fort Hamilton.
It is stated that Pierce Butler's arrest was caused by intercepted letters giving information to the enemy.
Among the important events of last week is the arrest at Washington of C. J. Faulkner, of Virginia, the late American Minister to France. He is suspected of laboring in behalf of the Confederation abroad, and is supposed to have been appointed a Brigadier General in the rebel army.
EASTON, Pa., August 19th. The office of the Sentinel newspaper, which has been advocating peace and compromise, was gutted to-night by a mob. Colonel Johnson, Congressman elect, was burned in effigy, and made to show his colors. Intense excitement prevails.
Among the cheering events of the week is the complete success of the great movement of the Government for securing means to carry on the war. The Banks of Boston, New York and Philadelphia have agreed to loan the Government one hundred and fifty millions of dollars, probably the largest loan ever negotiated. Here is substantial loyalty. The London Times need give itself no farther anxiety about the interests of English capitalists in this matter.
Ex-Governor Adams of South Carolina is dead. He was an old secessionist and slave-trade revivalist.
<c06>
HUBBARDSTON. Mr. E. H. Heywood of Boston gave an address in Hubbardston Sunday, 11th inst., on:" The War.” The Unitarian church had been engaged for him the week previous, and notices of his meeting were read from the pulpits. But during the week some turbulent individuals threatened disorder, and the parish committee deemed it proper to revise their decision. Boisterous efforts were made to prevent his obtaining any place to fulfil his appointment; but, on the guarantee of three responsible citizens for any damage which might occur, the Mechanics' Hall was finally secured. The meeting, thus liberally advertised, was of course very large, and Mr. Heywood was favored with an attentive and respectful audience, not a whisper of disturbance being heard during his interesting address.-Worcester Spy.
PRIZE OF $100.-The Church Anti-Slavery Society has reissued its offer of a prize of $100 for an acceptable tract which is not to exceed twenty-four pages, on the question: ”How shall Christians and Christian Churches best absolve themselves from all responsible connection with slavery?” This prize was offered last year, but the number of competitors was few, and the efforts were not deemed worthy of popular circulation. The time is now extended to January 1, 1862. Manuscripts are to be sent to either of the following Committee on adjudication: The Rev. J. C. Webster, Hopkinton, Mass.; Deacon J. Washburn, Worcester, Mass.; the Rev. Samuel Souther, Worcester, Mass.
DEATH OF PROMINENT CITIZENS. Deacon Samuel Greeley, a well-known Boston citizen, died at Swampscot, on the 16th inst., aged 78 years. He was a graduate of Harvard College, of the, class of 1802, and has been a member of the Legislature, and also of the Board of Aldermen.
Nathaniel Faxon, Esq., for so many years a leading member of the shoe and leather trade, at the wellknown sign of the big shoe, Dock Square, died in this city, 16th inst., at the advanced age of years. Mr. F. came to this city a poor boy, worked industriously, and rose gradually until he accumulated a very large fortune.
A despatch received in this city Monday morning from Plymouth, Mass., announces the death of Rev. J. S. Clark, D. D., for many years Secretary of the Massachusetts Home Missionary Society, and at the time of his decease Corresponding Secretary of the Congregational Library Association.
Gen. Fremont has wisely established martial law in St. Louis, appointed Major McKinstry, of the U. S. Army, Provost Marshal, and arrested the President of the Board of Police Commissioners, John A. Brownlee. The Provost Marshal has issued stringent orders against wearing concealed weapons, the sale of fire-arms, &c., and a fleet of steamers has been concentrated at St. Louis for safe keeping.
NEW YORK, August 17th. The Herald reports the discovery of an attempt to blow up Fort Columbus, on Governor's Island. Four men are represented to have gone there Monday night, with the intention of laying a train to blow up the magazine and destroy several hundred tons of powder, and a large number of soldiers quartered there. The authors of the infamous scheme escaped. The sentry who passed them to the Island is missing.
THE INCOME TAX. The National Intelligencer says that the President of the United States will pay seven hundred and twenty-six dollars, and each member of the Cabinet two hundred and sixteen dollars under the tax on incomes laid by Congress.
The ”Shark Guards," a company of New Hampshire volunteers, embraces in its ranks several men who measure over six feet, and one who towers up to the height of six feet and seven and one half inches.
THE PRINCE NAPOLEON COMING TO BOSTON. It is stated on good authority that Prince Napoleon will visit this city in about two weeks. It is his desire to avoid all public display.
Horace Greeley, Who has been confined to his house for the last three weeks from serious illness, is recovering, though still unable to attend to business. He had a severe attack of brain fever, which at one time threatened to prove fatal. 
The” Fraternity” propose to observe the forthcoming anniversary of the birthday of the late Theodore Parker by suitable exercises at Allsto n Hall, on Friday evening, the 23d inst. Brief addresses will be made by several of Mr. Parker's friends, interspersed with music, and the occasion will doubtless be one of much interest.
Free tickets of admission may be had at the Anti-Slavery Office. Addresses by Wendell Philips, W. L. Garrison, E. H. Heywood, and others.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M.D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4,P. M.
DIED-In Springfield, August 11, of cholera infantum, RAYMOND DASFORTH, son of E. W. and Frank O. D. Clark, aged 10 months and 9 days.
WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin ”Wednesday, Sept. 1,1861. Both sexes are received as family or day pupils. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. West Newton, Aug. 15.
HOPEDALE HOMESCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and continue Fifteen weeks. For full particulars, please address WM. S. HAY WOOD, Principal. Milford, Mass., Aug. 6, 1861.
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle st., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with, or without board. Terms moderate.
Boston, Jan. 7. S. NEWELL.
NOW READY,
SERMONS AND SPEECHES BY GERRIT SMITH: containing his Six Sermons on the Religion of Reason, and three of his recent Speeches-one of them delivered lately, on the War. Price 50 cents.
For sale by ROSS & T0USEY,
July 19.-4t No. 121 Nassau street, N. Y.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded & Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 183 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties, pay. tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch, is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another features which strikes your committee favorably, via: there is n. wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and. therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the doable lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a. great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account.”
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
NOT YET.
BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
Oh country, marvel of the earth!
O realm, to sudden greatness grown!
The age that gloried in thy birth,
Shall it behold thee overthrown?
Shall traitors lay that greatness low?
No, land of Hope and Blessing, No!
And we who wear thy glorious name,
Shall we, like cravens, stand apart,
When those whom thou hast trusted aim
The death-blow at thy generous heart?
Forth goes the battle-cry, and, lo!
Hosts rise in harness, shooting, No!
And they who founded, in our land,
The power that rules from sea to sea,
Bled they in vain, or vainly planned
To leave their country great and free?
Their sleeping ashes from below
Send up the thrilling murmur, No!
Knit they the gentle ties which long
These sister States were proud to wear,
And forged the kindly links so strong
For idle bands in sport to tear-
For scornful bands aside to throw?
No, by our fathers' memory, No!
Our humming marts, our iron ways,
Our wind-tossed woods on mountain crest,
The hoarse Atlantic, with his bays,
The calm, broad Ocean of the West,
And Mississippi's torrent flow,
And loud Niagara, answer, No!
Not yet the hour is nigh, when they
Who deep in Eld's dim twilight sit,
Earth's ancient kings shall rise and say,
"Proud country, welcome to the pit!
So soon art thou, like us, brought low!"
No, sullen group of shadows, No!
For now, behold, the arm that gave
The victory in our fathers' days,
Strong, as of old, to guard and save-
That mighty arm which none can stay-
On clouds above and fields below,
Writes, in men's eight, the answer, No!

From "Temple Bar" Magazine.
THREE TIMES.
First time I saw my Love, my eyes
Were gladdened with a sweet surprise;
There woke a thought that never dies,
That bright June morning.
A vision, fairly clad in white,
Dawned softly, freshly on my sight,
And in her hand were roses bright-
June roses, pure from speck or blight,
My Love's adorning!
Last time I saw my Love, she lay
All pale, all silent, cold as clay;
The light of life had died away;
O, sad and sweet last time!
And still she wore a robe of white,
And on her pillow, lightly prest,
And in the band that lay at rest,
Solemnly on her peaceful breast,
Were roses-buds not opened quite-
Gathered before their prime.
A tender care had laid them there;
But my dead Love was far more fair.
Next time I see my Love, I know
A glorious garment, white as snow,
On which no stains of earth can show-
A garment meet for heaven-
Will robe the form I love to see;
My angel-love, who waits for me,
And holds a palm of victory
For earth's white roses given.

OVER THE WAY.
Gone in her childish purity,
Out from the golden day;
Fading away in the light so sweet,
Where the silver stars and the sunbeams meet,
Paving the path for her silent feet,
Over the silent way.
Over her bosom tenderly
The pearl-white hands are prest;
The lashes lie on her cheeks so thin,
Where the softest blush of the rose has been,
Shutting the blue of her eyes within
The pure lids closed in rest.
Over the sweet brow lovingly
Twineth her sunny hair;
She was so fragile that Love sent down
From his heavenly gems, that soft bright crown,
To shade her brow with its waves so brown,
Light as the dimpling air.
Gone to sleep with a tender smile
Froze on her tender lips,
By the farewell kiss of her dewy breath,
Cold in the clasp of the angel Death-
Like the last fair bud of the fading wreath.
Whose bloom the white frost nips.
Robin-hushed in your downy bed,
Over the swinging bough-
Do you miss her voice from your glad duct,
When the dew in the heart of the rose is set,
Till its velvet lips with the essence wet
In orient crimson glow?
Rosebud-under your shady leaf,
Hid from the sunny day-
Do you miss the glance of the eyes so bright,
Whose blue was heaven in your timid sight?
It is beaming now in the world of light
Over the starry way.
Hearts-where the darling's head hath lain,
Held by love's shining ray-
Do you know that the touch of her gentle hand
Doth brighten the harp in the unknown land!
Oh, she waits for us with the angel band
Over the starry way.

From the Monthly Religious Magazine.
SAFETY OF THE RIGHTEOUS.
"Fear not; for they that are with us are more than they that are with them."-2 KINGS, 6:16.
The wicked and the base do compass round
The pure and humble in their righteous way,
And with fierce onset, and the trumpet's sound,
They seek the servants of the Lord to slay;
They trust in wealth, or in the cruel sword,__
Vain idols, that cannot defend or save!
They fear no threatenings of God's holy Word,
But, trusting in themselves alone, are brave.
But though no human help the righteous know,
They fear not in the last, the trying hour:
God, through his gracious love to them, doth show
The unseen hosts and ensigns of his power,
Which compass them about on every side,
In whose protection they may safe confide. J. V.

UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.
Thy hill-tops, New England, shall leap at the cry,
And the prairie and far-distant West shall reply;
It shall roll o'er the land, till the fartherest glen
Gives back the glad summons again and again.
Oppression shall hear in He temple of blood,
And read on its wall the hand-writing of God;
Niagara's torrent shall thunder it forth,
It shall bam in the sentinel star of the North.
It shall blaze in the lightning, and speak in the thunder,
Till Slavery's fetters arc riven asunder,
And Freedom her rights has triumphantly won,
And our country her garments of beauty put on.
The forests shall hear it, and lift up their voice,
And bid the green prairies and valleys rejoice;
And the Father of Waters join Mexico's sea
In the anthem of Nature for millions set free.
J. G. W.
<c02>
The Liberator.
HENRY C. WRIGHT TO JAMES HAUGHTON.
On which rests the Responsibility of the present War of Bullets and Bayonets between Liberty and Slavery, the North or the South?
MONROE CENTRE, (Maine,) July 20, 1861.
To JAMES HAUGHTON, Dublin, Ireland:
DEAR JAMES-In a recent letter to Wm. Lloyd Garrison, you ask-" What is H. C. Wright doing in this crisis? "Doing his duty to his God and his kind, in resisting tyrants, by such means as to him seem just, and adapted to the end.
I have carefully read your letter. Two prominent points are presented in it-(1) that this war of bullets was begun by the North; (2) that Abolitionists have swerved from their principles, as Abolitionists and as Peace-men. In both I think you unintentionally misjudge us. Allow me to narrate the simple facts respecting the origin and object of the overwhelming scourge that is now upon us.
Two antagonistic Ideas have been embodied in our national government, as it has been administered ever since it went into operation, March 4, 1789-LIBERTY and SLAVERY. The former is the thought of the North; the latter, of the South. From that day to this, these two Ideas have been contending for the mastery. The issue has been-Shall Liberty or Slavery-Free Labor or Slave Labor-Free Institutions or Slave Institutions-hold dominion over the nation and over the continent?
As early as 1820, a plan was formed by the slaveholders to subject to Slavery the entire national domain, together with Mexico and all Central America, and the islands adjacent. The Missouri Compromise was then formed, giving overall south of 36 deg. 30 min. to slavery, and nominally excluding it from all north of that line. In the discussions in Congress at that time, this plan was clearly unfolded. It seemed so wild and improbable that the North laughed at it; but from that hour the Slave Oligarchy have kept that object steadily in view. It was then determined that slavery should be made to triumph, in the Union, or out of it; by the aid of the Federal Government, or on its ruins. They expected to do it by its aid. It had wholly subserved the slave interest thus far. In every instance where the two Ideas had grappled for mastery in the Legislative, Judicial, or Executive department of the Government, slavery had triumphed. Slaveholders, having forced the North into subjection in the Missouri conflict, were emboldened to think that, in due time, they could compel it to allow slaves to be held and protected in every Northern State, and in all the territories.
From 1820, slaveholders bent their energies to have it recognized as a fact, by every department of the government, and by the whole people, that the security, perpetuity and unlimited extension of slavery were guaranteed by the Constitution. Slavery interpreted that instrument to suit itself, and compelled Congress, the Supreme Court, and the Executive, and, through them, the whole people, to accept its interpretations. The will of the slaveholder became the supreme law of the land. By threats of dissolution and civil war, the North was driven to admit the Constitution to be just what he said it was. In fact, the will of the slaveholder became the Constitution of the National Government, and nearly every State government, North as well as South. To speak, to print, or in any way to act, or even to think or feel for liberty and against slavery, was deemed unconstitutional-that is, against the will, the interests and designs of slaveholders. Slavery, as an Idea, or an abstract right, must be acknowledged, and slave-labor, slave-society, and slave-institutions, as actualities, must be protected and perpetuated under the Constitution. The entire nation seemed to be prostrated under the feet of the slaveholder, and to have lost the power of domestic, social, commercial, literary, political, religious, or military resistance to his insolent and bloody rule. Governors of Northern States, and the Presidents of the United States, in their annual messages, recommended that resistance to the encroachments of slavery should be made treason against the Constitution and Union, and punished as felony.
In 1830, William Lloyd Garrison inaugurated a WAR OF IDEAS against slavery, and in defence of freedom and free institutions. He arraigned slavery before the tribunal of Humanity, as a wrong which no power in the universe could make right-as "the sum of all villanies." He called for its immediate and unconditional abolition. Earnest, determined, and philanthropic souls gathered around him, to prosecute that holy war unto death or victory. To understand this war of Ideas inaugurated by Garrison, and the work which he and his coadjutors found before them to be done, I would revert to the fact, that two Ideas had been embodied in the government-LIBERTY and SLAVERY. These two Ideas had taken possession-the latter of the South, the former of the North. In their nature they were antagonistic and irreconcilable; and a truce or a compromise between them was as impossible as between gunpowder and fire, or truth and falsehood. The family, the church, the school, the college, finance, commerce, and local government; the entire individual, domestic, social, ecclesiastical, literary, financial and political life of the South, were based on slavery; the entire circle of life in the North was based on liberty. The habits of thought, feeling and action, and the entire character of the South, were the natural fruits of an Idea that turned human beings into brutes and chattels; that ignored, absolutely, all rights of property, person and family, and made men, women and children mere articles of merchandise, to be bought and sold in the shambles. The habits of thought and feeling in the North were, in part, the natural fruits of an Idea, that asserted and respected these rights, and revolted at the practice of holding and using men as property.
Consequently, the entire life of the South must, of necessity, be as hostile to the life of the North as is slavery to liberty. There could be no more harmony between the life and character of the North and South, than between the two moral and eternal conditions on which they are founded. Northern life must yield to slavery, or Southern life must yield to liberty. Events favored slavery; and free life, free society, and free institutions fell prostrate before the piratical tyrant. The North became the mere bodyguard of the slave-breeding, slave-driving, slave-trading South-the mere watch-dogs of its slave-barracoons. The first thing to be done, in their war of Ideas, by the Abolitionists, was to rescue Northern life, in all its modes of manifestation, from the dominion of slavery; especially to rescue the literature, the press, the politics and religion of the North from that debasing and insolent rule. We said to the people-"Wherever you feel it your duty to live and act, whether in the Church or in the State-whether in a political or religious party-whether in the pulpit or on the platform-whether at the ballot-box or the communion-table-there live and act for liberty, and against slavery."
It was supposed, that if the war of Ideas could be made to culminate in the North, in a majority in the Church and State, at the communion-table and ballot-box, against slavery, and in favor of freedom and free institutions, the South would submit to that decision, and allow the majority to rule in regard to the existence, extension and perpetuity of slavery, as in all other questions of social, religious and governmental polity. Thus it was hoped by Garrison and his associates that the great and irrepressible conflict between Liberty and Slavery might be settled in a bloodless battle of Ideas. How faithfully, how earnestly, how heroically the Abolitionists have; labored to work out this bloodless result in favor of freedom, the history of the past thirty years will attest
But, even Abolitionists had not fully fathomed the murderous character of slavery, and the bloody designs of slaveholders. These had determined, as events
<c03>
have proved, that, in case the war of Ideas should culminate in their defeat at the communion-table and ballot-box, they would inaugurate a war of bullets, and compel the North to meet them on the field of blood. They have appealed from the field of THOUGHT to the field of DEATH.
Of course, in arraigning slavery, and calling for its overthrow, the Abolitionists arraigned and condemned every thing in the social, religious, political and commercial institutions and customs of the country that sanctioned and sustained it. Near the beginning of this war of Ideas, John C. Calhoun declared that such a war against slavery, and against the character of slaveholders, was far more to be dreaded by the South than a war of bullets and bayonets against their lives.
In the prosecution of this war, the Methodist, Baptist and Presbyterian Churches, as national bodies, were divided into Northern and Southern, enslaving and non-enslaving divisions. Slaveholders could find no security for slavery in a union with Northern churches. They seceded, and formed Southern churches, based on slavery and the slave-trade as their chief corner-stone. The discussion respecting the Bible and Church support of slavery prepared the minds of millions in the North for a discussion of the question of a Constitutional and Governmental support of slavery. A political party arose in the North, that denied the constitutional right of slavery to extend itself into territory beyond that which it now occupied. A majority of the voters seized the idea, and carried it to the polls in several successive presidential and congressional elections. The party grew rapidly. It claimed to be in its principles and action strictly constitutional. Its object was not the non-existence of slavery where it now is but its non-existence where it is not. "No further extension of slavery" was its motto. On this issue, its final triumph seemed secure.
The slaveholders took the alarm. More loudly and menacingly than ever, they threatened civil war and the overthrow of the Government, should the Republican party get possession of it. True to their purpose to secure the lasting empire of slavery in the Union, or out of it, by the aid of the government, or on its ruins, they began more openly and earnestly to prepare for the final struggle. They foresaw that if the Republicans got control of the Government, they could no longer use it as a means to further their plans. Hence, they matured their scheme of Secession in all its details. They saw that the Government, in the hands of the new party, must have freedom and free labor for its basis; and, consequently, must come to mean the non-existence as well as the non-extension of slavery. In short, as they viewed it, it must become an Abolition Government; the active, deadly, eternal foe to the existence, prosperity, perpetuity and propagation of slavery.
Under these circumstances, "the peaceful, quiet secession," of which you speak, was out of the question. Secession with them meant the total and absolute destruction of the United States Constitution and Government; an exterminating war upon a free Constitution, a free Government, free labor, free institutions, free schools, and, as one of their leading organs expresses it, (the Richmond Examiner,) "every thing that has the prefix free to it."
Secession-the formation of a Southern Confederacy, based upon slavery and slave-labor as its "corner-stone "-the destruction of the United States Constitution and Government, and the substitution of their slave Constitution and Confederacy in its stead, with Washington for its capital-this was their programme. Leading Abolitionists penetrated their plan of gigantic wrong and outrage, and promptly and earnestly exposed it But the Northern mind, generally, could not or would not take the alarm. The villany seemed too vast, the crime too dark and horrible.
Meantime, the slaveholders proceeded steadily and stealthily to carry out their plan to destroy the old government-as follows:-To run it in debt-to deprive it of its means to pay-to ruin its credit-to seize and retain its forts, arsenals, custom-houses and mints-to send its navy to distant seas, beyond its reach for immediate use-to rob its Northern armories and navy-yards, and place their contents in slave States, and within ready reach of slaveholders-to distribute its troops into slave States-to corrupt the officers in its army and navy, and get them to resign when the time for action came-to have all foreign embassies filled by slaveholders-to call conventions in the slave States, and formally declare them out of the Union-to form a new government, professedly recognizing slavery as its basis, and its support as their only object-to repudiate all debts due the North in the South-to confiscate all stocks and bonds held by the North against the South-to inaugurate a system of privateering (piracy) against commerce, “the peculiar institution" of the North-to drive all Northern men and women out of the South, or compel them to swear allegiance to or fight for the slaveocratic confederacy-to get that confederacy recognized by foreign powers-to prostrate commerce and manufactures in the North by withholding cotton, and thus drive it to bankruptcy and ruin-to excite mobs in all Northern towns and cities to put down all exposure and opposition to slavery and the plans of slaveholders-and, finally, to expel the Administration from Washington, seize the capital and the archives of the United States government, and inaugurate there the slave confederacy as the only actual government of the country, and compel the entire North into subjection to the rule of slavery and slave institutions.
Such is the plan which is known to have been maturely formed in all its details, previous to the advent of the present Administration on the 4th of last March. In most of its details, it has been literally carried out. That Administration, on its assuming the reins of the government, found the treasury in debt $25,000,000; its resources dried up; its troops scattered where they were controlled by the slaveholders, and but one ship of war, of any account, at its command; its Northern arsenals plundered, and its Southern arsenals, mints, custom-houses, and forts mostly in the hands of the traitors, and the principal officers in the army and navy resigned and resigning, and gone over to the interests of the slave-breeding conspirators. Never was a governmental Administration apparently so helpless. The prospect was that the entire North, with all her free institutions, free labor, and free homes, must fall beneath the iron and bloody rule of slavery.
Do you ask, "What saved the North from that doom?" The slaveholders themselves. How? Two forts in the South-Sumter and Pickens-were prevented by the government from falling into the hands of the rebels. In their hot haste and madness, they gathered ten thousand armed men around Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor, to annihilate a little party of seventy under Anderson, and opened their batteries upon them, simply because the government sought to supply them with food. The ten thousand chivalrous(?) and valorous(?) Southrons triumphed over the seventy. Repudiation of two hundred millions of dollars due from the South to the North; confiscation of stocks and bonds held by the North against the South; the blockade of the Mississippi against the produce and commerce of the North-West; whipping, tarring and feathering, and hanging all suspected Northerners found in the South; calling on the pirates of the world to make war upon Northern commerce; marching an army of fifty thousand upon the capital, and the murder of Northern soldiers in Baltimore, who were hastening to the defence of their capital and its archives;-these enormities aroused and united the North, and convinced them that resistance, or unconditional submission to the Slave Power, was the only alternative left them. Shall liberty or slavery rule the North, the nation, and the continent? The South forced this great issue upon the North; and this is now the sole and single issue in this conflict. Politicians, office-seekers and compromisers may call it a war for the Constitution and Union. Be it so; but the entire slaveholding South, and nine-tenths of the people of the North, enter into the war to settle the question, now and forever, whether free institutions
<c04>
or slave institutions shall Lave abiding and exclusive empire over this nation and the western continent.
You ask, "Is this statement effects true?" Yes, if the slaveholders are to be trusted in their statements of their own plans and purposes; for it is derived from the public speeches and documents of Davis, Stephens, Yancey, Wigfall, Cobb, Rhett, Wise, and many other living actors in this great movement to secure, propagate and perpetuate slavery and slave institutions; from the organs of this slave confederacy, and from the speeches and action of the Southern plotters and perpetrators of treason against justice and humanity for the last forty years. To this end, the South sought the abolition of a government, designed to "secure the blessings of liberty," and to place in its stead and in its capital a government de-signed to secure and perpetuate the theft, robbery, concubinage, murder, piracy, and barbarism of slavery. Slavery could not be secure while liberty was allowed to exist by its side. Slave labor and slave institutions could never be safe while free labor and free institutions were tolerated by them. A government based on slavery could never be sustained, while a government based on liberty was allowed to exist in its presence. This, Calhoun and all the prominent men in this movement to sustain "the sum of all villanies" well knew.
The North, so far as this war is concerned, stands precisely in the same relation to the South as the traveller holds to the highway robber, the victim to the midnight assassin, or the peaceful merchantman to the pirate on the high seas. The highwayman says, "Your money or your life"; the traveller must fight, yield or die. The midnight assassin says to his victim, "I shall kill you, or you must kill me"; the victim must kill or be killed. The pirate says to the merchantman, "I shall slaughter and plunder you, or you must kill and plunder me." Shall he resist, or die? Not one in a hundred of the Abolitionists, not one in ten thousand of the Northern people are prepared to die, when such an alternative is presented, rather than kill. They believe in an armed defence of freedom and free institutions, and in armed resistance to slaveholders in their plans and efforts to enslave them. The South says to the North, "The decisive hour is come. I appeal from the battle of ideas to the battle of bullets; from the field of thought to the field of death. Slavery and liberty can no longer exist, each in the presence of the other; the grave is dug, and one or the other must be buried in it so deep and safe that no resurrection trump can awake it."
Such is the issue thrust upon the North by the South. Do you wonder at this great uprising?-that the North has sent four hundred thousand armed men o meet their enslavers on the field of death? and that four hundred millions of dollars are appropriated to their support? Tested by their own acknowledged aw of life, they would prove themselves to be what Davis, Stephens, Yancey, Wigfall, and the slaveholders generally, have declared them to be-"the most cowardly, most contemptible, and most detestable of God's creation," were they to do otherwise.
"Quiet, peaceful secession"! You and I are partners in business. We differ in our modes of conducting our business. I insist on my way. You will not yield. I secede-i. e., I proceed to destroy your business; to burn your shop, your stores, your goods, and take your life. You rise to defend yourself; to resist my assaults, and place me in a position where I can no longer endanger your existence. I cry out against you as a coercionist, and say, "Why not allow me quietly and peacefully to secede?" Exactly thus it is between the North and South. Slavery says to liberty, "Why not let me quietly and peacefully secede?" i.e., Why not lie still, and let me cut your throat? When liberty starts into life to defend itself, and place slavery where it can no more harm any one, shall her friends say, "Let the pirate alone-you cannot subdue him"?
Be assured, my dear friend, all the calamities resulting from this war of bullets, between the North and South, whether they be felt in this or in other lands, will, by the historian, be laid solely to the slaveholders' account. The North would gladly have decided the question of slavery and slavery extension, in a battle of ideas culminating in ballots rather than in bullets. As decided by the ballot of last fall, the South would not accept it. They resolved to appeal to a battle of bullets, and to compel the North to accept to the challenge, or be SLAVES! Time will decide whether a bullet can do more to sustain and perpetuate slavery and slave institutions than an idea had done.
In view of my narrative of facts, I ask you, and all our friends across the sea, to judge whether the North is deserving your sympathy and support, or your condemnation. I cannot but look to this conflict as one that must surely end in the ultimate abolition of slavery. No power, as it looks to me, can stay the hand now put forth to strike the monster dead.
You think we ignore our peace principles, in our manner of treating the war. I would like to make answer to that at another time. Meanwhile, GOD
SPEED THE RIGHT!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

REBEL ATROCITIES ON THE BATTLE-FIELD.
SHOCKING TREATMENT OF THE WOUNDED.
Almost too horrible for credence is the statement of the bayoneting of men who were disarmed and wounded, and incapable of further hostilities; it is humiliatingly sad to have to believe that our surgeons were charged on and cut down by the rebel cavalry, while engaged in their professional duties, and while under the shadow of their surgeon's green scarf and flag-to believe that our hurt and dying men were deliberately stabbed with bayonets, and cut to pieces with sabres, and trampled with savage glee and malice under the horses' hoofs of the Black Horse Cavalry-to believe that ambulances, filled with wounded men, were blown up by skillfully projected shells-to believe that every group of four men, seen bearing from the field a wounded soldier, was made the target, not of the musket of a common soldier, not of a single piece of artillery which might be thus aimed by a single excited and irresponsible gunner, but of whole batteries of rifled cannon, aimed, elevated and fired by command of the officers in charge, whose field glasses were brought into constant requisition to determine the exact distance, and insure the utmost precision of aim; but when to these atrocities is superadded the statement that a hospital, filled with wounded men and attending surgeons, surrounded by ambulances, and flying the hospital flag, was shelled, and was afterward deliberately set on fire and burned to the ground, broiling alive our suffering and helpless wounded men, the assertion is too monstrous to merit belief, until established by evidence of a nature that cannot be controverted.
To give the statements of surgeons and other officers, who were eye-witnesses of these things, is the object of this letter.
Be it understood at first that I shall give no irresponsible testimony. I shall not give any of the thousand rumors flying about of outrages said to have been seen, but which cannot be traced and positively established. I shall give no statement of common soldiers, many of whom are willing to testify to numberless butcheries, but who were, perhaps, excited, and certainly not in a position to see as much as they perhaps supposed. I give only a few accounts, taken from the lips of officers," of things which they themselves saw, and part of which they were.
To advance backward, and give the conclusion before stating the premises, I will say that the proofs are overwhelming and incontrovertible, that our wounded men were systematically murdered; that our surgeons were systematically shot down; that our ambulances were systematically blown up by shells; and that at the last, our hospital, a church building, was charged on by cavalry, who rode up and fired their revolvers through the windows at the wounded men as they lay on the floors, and at the surgeons who were attending to their wants, and that the enemy eventually set fire to the building and burned it, and in it scores of wounded and dying men.
Of course, in the excitement of a battle, there will occur cases of individual cruelty to prisoners, and perhaps we should be slow to believe many of
<c05>
the stories that are told of even this sort of work-but that our wounded men, were systematically murdered is unquestionably true, for the same hideous work was going on in all parts of the field at once; and the murderous business was performed, not by isolated soldiers, but by bodies or men under the special command of officers of high rank, and evidently in pursuance of a pre-arranged plan.
There can, I think, be no reasonable doubt that, if not all, at least certain divisions of the rebel army had instructions not to take any prisoners, and not to let our wounded men be carried off the field. I proceed to adduce my proofs.
For the information of the uninitiated, let me premise certain things that are so simple that it may seem folly on my part, but I think it will have its use. An ambulance is a spring carriage for carrying off wounded men. It is of a peculiar build and appearance-its character easily recognizable at the longest distance at which it can be seen at all; and let me say that it can no more be mistaken for any other carriage than a trotting sulky can be mistaken for a locomotive engine.
A surgeon always wears a green sash, not only in our own service, but in every army of every civilized nation. The trimmings of his uniform are green, and therein they differ from every other officer. It is no more possible to mistake a surgeon for an officer of hostilities, than to mistake a drummer-boy for a major-general.
When, on or near the battle-field, a surgeon finds it necessary to make temporary arrangements for the care of the wounded, he selects a place as much sheltered as may be-generally in a ravine or behind a hill, and, if possible, under a tree. When the surgeon goes to work, he generally takes off his green sash, and hangs it on a prominent branch of the tree, or displays it on a musket stuck in the ground-the idea being to fly the green scarf in the manner of a flag, to show that the place is under the immediate care of a surgeon, and is to be respected accordingly. Whether the surgeon thus displays his flag or not, his position cannot be mistaken for anything else. The wounded men lying about, the cruel instruments in view, the busy doctors in their shirt-sleeves, and all the surroundings, attest the nature of the business there going on, and appeal, in the name of our common human nature, to the best feelings, and the safest protection of the contending armies, both sides indiscriminately.
Now to authenticated facts.
Lieut. S. R, Elliott, of the 79th Regiment N. Y. V. M., (Highlanders,) was standing near Col. Cameron of his regiment, when the latter was struck by a shot, and fell mortally wounded. The lieutenant and others instantly rushed to the fallen officer. Lieut. Elliott, with twelve men of the fiftlr and tenth companies of his regiment, raised the Colonel, and started to bear him off the field. No sooner was this group of men discerned by the field telescopes of the enemy, than they were made a target for an entire battery of rifled cannon and a number of infantry. The shots struck on every side of them, being aimed with great precision, and they were soon covered with dust thrown over them by the flying balls. Finally, a shell thrown by the rifled cannon battery struck in the centre of the group, exploded, and killed five men of those who were bearing the dying Colonel. The battery continued to play on them until they were out of range, but they escaped without further serious casualties.
Lieut. Elliott says that the shots which struck near them were not the chance shots of a general engagement, but were aimed at them specially- they were discovered by the field glasses of the rebels, and then the guns were aimed directly at them, and played on them till they were out of range-and with what murderous effect has been stated.
There was no possibility of mistaking the nature of this group, or their humane errand. The rebels saw a number of men bearing from the field a wounded officer, and instead of withholding their fire, invariably the practice of a civilized foe, they scientifically took the exact range of the retreating group, and brought a whole battery to bear on them, killing nearly half of them before they had succeeded in placing their dying Colonel in a place of safety.
Col. "Wood, of the 14th New York Regiment, (Brooklyn,) being wounded, was placed in an ambulance, and was being carried off the field. The ambulance was fired at persistently by a battery of rifled cannon. A projectile from one of these guns at last, took off the top of the ambulance, passed on and killed three men of the Rhode Island Battery, and dismounted their gun. The fire was kept up so unremittingly, that the men in charge of the ambulance were forced to leave it. In this ease, also, the ambulance was made a special target, and was fired at until it was probably destroyed.
Lieut. Colonel Joseph J. Chambers, now commanding the New York 28th Volunteers, the Colonel being wounded and in the infirmary, tells the following story:-
Lieut. Colonel Chambers was in the thickest of the fight, and while he himself was hastening for reinforcements, saw near the brook (Bull Run) a rebel deliberately bayonet one of our wounded men, who was lying near the bank of the stream. Even in the exigency of the moment, Col. Chambers wheeled his horse, rode up to the rebel, and shot him dead.
Surgeon Barnes, of the New York 28th Volunteers, was in the fight all through, and came out of it in his shirt-sleeves, having lost coat, sash, watch, and all his surgical instruments, having been charged on by the Black Horse Cavalry, and compelled to leave the field, being driven from under a tree where he had established his temporary quarters, and where he was attending to the wounds of about twenty-five injured men, part of whom were secessionists.
Surgeon Barnes went up to the battle-field in the rear of the attacking column, and as soon as our men began to fall, he took a position with his assistants under a tree, in a little ravine. The wounded men were brought to him, and he took off his green sash and hung it on the tree, to signify that the place was under the charge of a surgeon. The injured men were brought in rapidly, and in fifteen minutes he had under his charge nearly thirty. As fast as possible, he attended to their hurts, and in a short time had been compelled to perform a number of capital operations. He amputated four legs, three arms, a hand and a foot, and attended to a number of minor injuries. By this time the enemy had discovered the place, and the nature of the business of the men in charge, and began to pour in musket balls and projectiles from rifled cannon. The place became unsafe for the wounded men, and it was seen to be necessary to remove them. The Surgeon's assistants and servant had become separated from him, and he had no one to send for ambulances, and was obliged to leave the wounded men and go himself.
It was no easy matter to procure ambulances enough, and it was probably thirty minutes before the Surgeon returned with the necessary assistance. When he returned, he found that every one of these wounded men had been bayoneted or sabered, and was dead. They were literally cut to pieces.
Sum up these facts. There were thirty men, all dangerously hurt-they had all been cared for by the Surgeon-they were lying on the grass in agonies of pain and thirst, with bandaged stumps of limbs, resting on the little hammocks-with their severed legs and arms scattered about-and, if more could be needed to show the nature of the place, the Surgeon's green sash was flying as a flag in the tree, and the Surgeon's instruments were lying in sight, and yet these thirty helpless men were there and then deliberately butchered.
The Surgeon gathered up his instruments, and started to retire to the rear, again to resume his duties. He was discovered by the enemy, and, although the boxes of instruments under his arms designated beyond dispute his rank and office, the infantry and a full battery of rifled cannon played on him till he was out of their reach-he was compelled to drop his instruments, and retreat as best he could.
Col. Slocum, of the New York 2d Regiment, was wounded by a grapeshot through the thigh. The Surgeon went to his assistance, found him, and attempted to dress his wound; but the rifle cannon commenced playing on them, and drove them from the field. They retreated, four men bearing the Colonel. In a short time, a halt was made, and again the rifle cannon of the enemy played on them and drove them away. All this time the Colonel was bleeding his life away. From six several positions was Col. Slocum removed before his wound could be properly dressed, although a tourniquet had at first been applied. At last, they took shelter in the Stone Church, (Sudley Church,) which had been occupied as a hospital. This church was soon shelled by the enemy. Col. Slocum was, by order of the surgeon, removed to the outside of the church
<c06>
behind, for supposed greater safety. It was soon found that the continual bursting of the shells made it more dangerous outside the walls. His wounds were dressed, and he was, as soon as possible, removed from the church to Fairfax, and thence to Washington, where he is now rapidly recovering.
The shelling and ultimate burning of this church is asserted by a cloud of witnesses.
Lieut Colonel Elliott, of the 79th (Highlanders) N. Y., saw the rebels shelling the building while the hospital flags were living? He states that the hospital was made a special target and that the attempt by them to destroy it, and slaughter our wounded men, was deliberate, and was followed up with the most persistent perseverance.
The surgeon of the 71st New York Regiment Militia was in the hospital, and saw the shelling, and the attempts of the rebels for its utter destruction.
Lieut. James Wilson of company G, New York 2d Militia, had charge of the wounded men of his regiment, whom he escorted to the hospital (Sudley Church) and placed them in care of the surgeon, he himself remaining to render assistance. In a short time the Black Horse Cavalry charged down to the church, firing in through the windows with their revolvers at the wounded men as they lay on the floors, and at the surgeons in attendance, A number of men attempted to escape through the doors, and were sabred as they came out.
With Lieut Wilson was a young man named M'Cook, who was a son of Judge M'Cook, of New York. Wilson and M'Cook ran out of the building to escape, when, they were met by the Black Horse Cavalry M'Cook was shot through the spine, dead, and Wilson was taken prisoner. Wilson afterwards escaped; one of the two men who had him in charge being shot by our men, and he himself then shot the other, who was a captain of the Black Horse Cavalry.
Some members of the New York 71st discovered a lieutenant-colonel of an Alabama regiment wounded, and lying on the ground. He threw up his hands and begged for his life, to which response was made, "We did not come here to fight wounded men." They took him to the hospital, (Sudley Church) where he was cared for by our surgeons. He said, his wounds having been dressed, "Boys, I give you my word of honor that not a man in this hospital shall be injured while I have a breath of life."
It is said by some that the rebels removed their own wounded from this hospital; if they did not do so, then this Alabama colonel was roasted alive with our men when the secession army afterward burned the building.
Some members of the 71st also found a wounded Georgian, whom they cared for, and took to one of our surgeons. After his wounds were dressed, he said, "This is more than we would have done for you." He added, "For God's sake, get out of this; you are fighting 100,000 men." This man was so impressed with the kindness of our men that he gave to one of the 71st his pistol as a keepsake.
Color Sergeant Charles Kent, of the New York Fire Zouaves, says he saw the death of Captain Downey, of company D, Fire Zouaves, a member of thirty-four engine company. He states that Downey was overpowered by a superior force; that he threw down his sword, and tossed his anus over his head to show that he was unarmed, and as if begging for mercy, but that he was instantly transfixed by a score of bayonets. Downey had led his company in a gallant charge up to a battery, and the last words he is known to have said to his men were these: "Boys, remember, New York is looking at you."
Sergeant S. G. Goodwin, of company H, Fire Zouaves, member of engine 30, saw one of our men lying on his back near his horse; the man was severely wounded, if not already dead. One of the enemy rushed up to him. and thrice pierced him through with his bayonet.
The same man saw a rebel strike at one of our wounded men with a sabre-the blow missing the man's head, but cut off his hand. One of the Fire Zouaves, who saw the cowardly act, instantly shot the rebel dead.
A member of the New York 2d says he saw one of our men struck by the fragments of a bursting shell, and knocked down. Two secessionists role up to him. and finding that, though momentarily stunned, the man was but slightly hurt, one of them rolled the man over, and the other deliberately cut his throat with his sabre.
Other instances of the rebel manner of dealing with our wounded men 1 could cite, but the stories I have told. I think, will establish beyond question. the truth of the following conclusion:-
1st. That as this slaughter of our wounded was not the work of a single company, or regiment of the enemy, but was going on in all [parts of the field at the same time, it was done in obedience to an order from rebel head-quarters.
2d. That, if this is the policy of the enemy, it is to be feared that our own men will retaliate in kind, for their officers will never be able to restrain them in another action.
Every statement in this communication about the treatment of our wounded men by the enemy was taken by me from the lips of the officers, whose names are herein mentioned, and who themselves saw the occurrences. Not a line is hearsay evidence.

STARTLIEN BUTCHERY,
Since the battle at Bull Run. I have conversed with many officers and soldiers that participated in the contest, and of these, scores have testified to the most shocking acts of torture and barbarity practised upon our wounded by the rebel soldiers. Two fine appearing young men of the Massachusetts Fifth told me of the inhuman butchery of one of their own comrades-a lieutenant in the company in which they belong. He was wounded in the knee, and fell into the hands of the enemy, after crawling some rods in his attempt to escape. He was surrounded by a small squad of rebels, one of whom demanded of the wounded loyalist his name and place of residence.
"My name, sir. is Frank Smith," replied the prostrate and bleeding soldier, "and I belong to the Fifth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers."
"Why don't you say at once that you're a G-d I d-d Yankee?" retorted one of the rebel assassins, at the same time displaying a long, murderous-looking knife, and with it making such demonstrations to show his bloody intentions.
The young lieutenant made no cowardly appeals for mercy, yet expressed his surprise at the treatment thus extended to a wounded prisoner of war. "You understand," said he, "that I have surrendered, and you certainly cannot mean to kill me!"
The immediate response to this was not heard by our informants, but they heard several of the rebels cry out, "Kill him! He's a d-d blue-bellied Yankee! Knife him!"
"And where were you that you did not shoot the villains?" I inquired.
"We were cut of from our regiment," replied one of my informants, "and were hiding in a thick clump of bushes, within a few yards of straggling bands of the enemy, and were watching a chance to make our escape. The least noise would have cost us our lives. Indeed, we expected every moment to be discovered, and share the fate of our comrade. Besides, one of our muskets was broken, so that we could have fired but a single shot. We staid till it was all over with poor Frank. He did his best to defend himself; but his arms were held by the cowardly devils, while the infernal butcher with the bowie knife cut his throat, as near as we can judge, almost severing his head from his body!"
This is a difficult story to credit, and I should have listened to it with more of doubt than confidence, had not the tears and choked utterance of the narrators afforded strong evidence of their sincerity, and the truthfulness of their tale of butchery and blood.-Cor. Chicago Tribune.

The Herald of Progress,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, EDITOR.
COSMOPOLITAN in every department of knowledge; its crystallized thoughts are intended to furnish a beacon light for the future. Its columns are open to communications upon every subject. Its columns are open to vote the mind, and to add to man's material comforts. Particular attention is given to the department of Health, with now and progressed methods of treating disease, by the Editor. Devoted to no sect, belonging to no party, not given to ONE IDEA, it presents itself to a Federal minded community, and asks their co-operation.
The Herald of Progress is published every Saturday, on a double folio of eight pages, for two dollars per annum, or one dollar for six months, in advance. Specimen copies forwarded gratis. Address, A. J. DAVIS & CO., 27, Canal street, New York. April 10.

