THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS -Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 18.  BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1584.
Refuge of Oppression
<c01>
THE FEELING IN BALTIMORE.
The following letter received in this city, in response to an invitation to come North during the troubles, shows the excited state of feeling in Baltimore:-
“BALTIMORE, April 20, 1861.
My Dear Brother,-I have just received your dispatch, and while I thank you for your kindness in the offer, we both are not disposed to run, much less to run into the arms of infernal abolitionism. We know there is danger; we have expected for thirty-six hours war to the knife-possibly all may be slaughtered; but by the God of heaven, we are determined to die in the work, and not a man or woman have I seen or heard of but is so determined. Let more Northern troops attempt a passage through this city, and not one will live to tell the story. It is a yawning gulf as long as a man is left to do the work.
Thirty-six hours ago, a majority of our people were for peaceable separation, and I may say for peace at all hazards; but now, the man does not exist in these parts who is not for the defence of our city against the inroads or passage of troops from the North. We are not to be subjugated by Lincoln and his hordes.
I have just got arms, and Joseph and myself intend to do what we can, be it ever so little. If he would not fight now, I would disown him.
But enough. YOUR BROTHER."

PROCLAMATION BY J. W. ELLIS, GOVERNOR OF NORTH CAROLINA.
RALEIGH, N. C., April 17, 1861.
Whereas, By Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, followed by a requisition of Simon Cameron, Secretary of War, I am informed that the said Abraham Lincoln has made a call for seventy-five thousand men, to be employed for the invasion of the peaceful homes of the South, and for the violent subversion of the liberties of a free people, constituting a large part of the whole population of the late United States; and, whereas, this high-handed act of tyrannical outrage is not only in violation of all constitutional law utter disregard of every sentiment of humanity and Christian civilization, and conceived in a spirit of aggression unparalleled by any act of recorded history but is a direct step towards the subjugation of the whole South, and the conversion of a free Republic, inherited from our fathers, into a military despotism, to be established by worse than foreign enemies on the ruins of our once glorious Constitution of Equal Rights.
Now, therefore, I. John W. Ellis, Governor of the State of North Carolina, for these extraordinary causes, do hereby issue this, my proclamation, notifying and requesting the Senators and members of the House of Commons of the General Assembly of North Carolina, to meet in special session at the capital in the city of Raleigh on Wednesday, the first day of May next. And I furthermore exhort all good citizens throughout the State to be mindful that their first allegiance is due to the sovereignty which protects their homes and dearest interests, as their first service is due for the sacred defence of their hearths, and of the soil which holds the graves of our glorious dead.
United action in defence of the sovereignty of North Carolina, and of the rights of the South, becomes now the duty of all.
Given under my hand, and attested by the great sea1 of the State. Done at the city of Raleigh the 17th day of April. A. D. 1861, and in the eighty-fifth year of our independence.
JOHN W. ELLIS.
THE ADJUTANT GENERAL'S ORDER.
ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE, Raleigh, April 20. 
General Order, No. 3.-The volunteer forces of the State not already ordered into active service, are hereby commanded to hold themselves in readiness to march at an hour’s notice. The officers are required to send to the Adjutant General's office a roll of the members of the companies. I am directed by the Governor to call for the enrollment of thirty thousand volunteers Organize-send in the rolls. Commissions and arms will be furnished. Be in readiness to march at a day's notice; drill by day and by night; let the citizens equip their men; some of your brothers are now in the field. The State has reason to be proud of the promptness with which they rallied at the call of your Governor. The decree for our subjugation has gone forth; the time of our trial has come; the blow will soon fall; we must meet it with the whole energies of the State; we must show to the world that North Carolina will maintain her rights at all hazards.
By order of the Commander-in-Chief,
J. F. HOKE, Adjutant General.

THE TRAITOR STEPHENS.
The following is the concluding portion of Hon. A. H. Stephens's speech at Richmond:-
“If there is sin in our institutions, we bear the. blame, and will stand acquitted by natural law, and the higher law of the Creator. We stand upon the law of God and Nature. The Southern States did not wish a resort to arms after secession. Mr. Stephens alluded to the negotiations between Major Anderson and the authorities of the Confederate States, to demonstrate the proposition. History, he said, if rightly written, would acquit us of a desire to shed our brothers' blood.
The law of necessity and of right compelled us to act us we did. He had reason to believe that the Creator smiled on it. The Federal flag was taken down without the loss of a single life. He believed that Providence would be with us and bless us to the end. We had appealed to the God of Battles for the justness of our cause. Madness and folly ruled at Washington. Had it not been so, several of the States would have been in the old Union for a year to come. The gods first made mad those they would destroy. Maryland would join us, and maybe, ere long the principles that Washington fought for might be again administered in the city that, bore his name. Every son of the South, from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, should rally to the support of Maryland. If Lincoln quits Washington as ignominiously as he entered it, God's will have been accomplished. The argument was now exhausted. Be prepared; stand to your arms; defend your wives and firesides. He alluded to the momentous consequences of the issue involved. Rather than be conquered, let every second man rally to drive back the invader. he conflict may be terrible, but the victory will be ours. Virginians, said he you, fight for the preservation of your sacred rights-the land of Patrick Henry-to keep from desecration the tomb of Washington, the graves of Madison, Jefferson, and all you hold most dear.”
<c02>
Selections.
A NORTHERN SEA CAPTAIN AND HIS SON WHIPPED AND IMPRISONED.
The bark Julia E. Aery, from the West Indies, arrived at this port (New York) on Saturday afternoon. The captain and mate of this vessel were recently subjected to those exquisite tortures indulged in by Southerners toward persons who are so unfortunate as to have been born North of Mason and Dixon's line. The story of their sufferings is substantially as follows:-
In the fall of last year, the bark cleared from Thomaston. Maine, with an assorted cargo for the Encero Mills, Camden Co., Georgia. The vessel was in command of Capt. E. W. Ryder, of Maine, aged 54 years, whose son, Joseph B. Ryder, sailed with him as second mate. They arrived at their destination on the 5th of November, and commenced discharging their freight. During the day, a negro belonging to a Dr. Nichols visited the vessel twice, once offering for sale some oars, and on the second occasion taking away with him some clothes to wash. He was on the bark but a few moments in all, and only indulged in such conversation as related to the errands he was upon. In the evening, five white men came on board of the Aery, and alleging that the negro was secreted in the hold, demanded the privilege of searching the vessel. Capt. Ryder permitted them to do so, and they went away, after completing the search, without having found the negro, who was ashore all the time. The men threatened to come back the next day, and make it all right with the captain and his son, at the same time charging them with being Abolitionists. On the following night, sure enough, they did come again, there being fifteen in all, and all of them being more, or less intoxicated. They asserted that all hands on board, but especially Capt. Ryder and his son, were “d-d Abolitionists," and said they would either hang them or tar and feather them before leaving the vessel. Fortunately, both the captain and mate were on shore at the time, or they would, doubtless, have fallen victims to this ruffianly gang of Southern gentlemen-for the most prominent citizens of the place were among them. As it was, their vessel was ransacked from top to bottom for abolition documents, and some of their valuable instruments destroyed. From the vessel the gang proceeded to the Encero Mills, which were owned by a Mr. Bayley. This man hired a number of negroes from a man named Scott, and these slaves had been engaged in unloading the Aery. The Vigilance Committee, as the drunken rabble termed themselves, began to question the negroes as to what conversation they had had with the captain and his son. The negroes denied having talked with them at all. as was the fact, but the Committee asserted that they had been listening to abolition doctrines. As the negroes persisted in their denial, six of them were stripped and whipped most unmercifully in order to make them confess. What they stated after being flayed is not known, but they doubtless told any story that was required to get them free from further whipping.
Next day, when Capt. Ryder heard of the previous night's proceedings, he and his son voluntarily went to the Vigilance Committee to assure them that they had in no way tampered with the slaves, nor was it their intention to do so. The Committee treated their statements with contempt, and, seizing the two men as prisoners, conveyed them to the town of Jefferson, fifteen miles distant. Here they were taken before the Vigilance Committee of that town, and charged with being Abolitionists. They denied the charge, and as no evidence could be produced, they were allowed to go to a hotel for the night, being closely guarded all the time. On the following day, they were again taken before the Committee for trial. The cook belonging to another vessel, then lying in that vicinity, testified that he had heard both the prisoners say that they were Republicans, and that if they had an opportunity would vote for Mr. Lincoln. The negro who had visited their vessel, and who had been imprisoned and intimidated in consequence, corroborated this testimony. This evidence was deemed sufficient, and the Committee decided that the prisoners were guilty of the charge made against them. They resolved, however, to deal leniently with the culprits, and decided not to hang them, as they deemed they deserved, but simply ordered them to be “publicly flogged," and afterward to be imprisoned such length of time as the Committee should deem proper. This old man, upward of 54 years of age, and his son, were then led from the Committee room to the front of the Court House, where a large number of persons had assembled to witness the scene, and there publicly whipped. They were stripped to the waist, and, after having been securely tied to a tree, twenty-five lashes were administered to each with heavy leather thongs. The young man bore the infliction patiently, but suffered terribly to witness the tortures to which his poor old father was subjected. The assembled multitude looked on and cheered, laughing at and taunting them without stint. After this, the two men were conducted to prison and confined in the cells. Old Mr. Ryder was terribly injured by the punishment he had received, and for several days expectorated blood freely.
After lying in jail for fourteen days, they were finally visited by five men, who informed them that their vessel had been brought to that point, and they must instantly go on board of her and take their departure. This they were glad to do; and, having been conducted to their bark, they joyfully set sail from that inhospitable shore, being convoyed out to sea by the five men who were charged with the duty of seeing them safely off. The Aery proceeded thence to a Spanish port, from there to the West Indies, where she was chartered for this port. Both the captain and his son claim that they are Republicans, and that they did say that they should like the privilege of voting for Mr. Lincoln. Beyond this, they committed no offence of which they are aware. They held no conversation with any negroes, except those working about their vessel, and to these they only spoke in regard to business matters. Captain Ryder visited the same place a few years since, when he was far more intimate with the slaves than on this occasion, their owners feeling grateful for the employment he gave them. He does not contemplate another visit there, at least, not till the secession troubles are settled.-NEW York Tribune, 8th inst.
WHIPPING A WOMAN TO DEATH. Jacob Patten, who lives in the south-western part of Missouri, whipped one of his slaves, a negro woman, to death, on Saturday, the 7th ult. After the negro was buried, suspicion of foul play caused her to be taken up. A coroner's inquest was held, and it was evident from the condition of the body, that she had met her death as above stated. Patten was are rested, and gave bail in the amount of $2,500.
<c03>
SENATOR DOUGLAS ON THE WAR. 
Senator Douglas arrived at Bellair, which is in Ohio, just across the river from Wheeling, Va., on the 20th ult., and being compelled to lay over the next day, a large crowd gathered from the surrounding country to pay him their respects. The Wheeling Intelligencer says of the gathering:-
“About half-past three o'clock a crowd of all the citizens, and a large delegation from this city, and hundreds from the surrounding country, gathered in front of the La Belle House, where Mr. Douglas was stopping. We never saw a crowd of the same number of people so full of enthusiasm. They cheered the Union and Major Anderson, the stars and stripes, and everything and everybody else that happened to suggest itself."
From Mr. Douglas's speech we make the following selections:-
GENTLEMEN: It is gratifying to me and my sense of patriotism to find the people on both sides of this beautiful river giving their cheers and their hearts in behalf of the flag of our country. (Great applause.) I trust the time never is coming when that flag will not wave as the emblem of peace and union, and of constitutional liberty forever, both in the south and in the north of this Ohio river. We in the northwest of this great valley can never recognize either the propriety, or the right of States bordering along upon the Gulf of Mexico and upon the Atlantic ocean, or upon the Pacific, to separate from the Union of our fathers, and establish and erect tax gatherers and custom houses upon our commerce in its passage to the gulf or the ocean. If we recognize the right in one case, we give our assent to it in all cases; and if the few States upon the Gulf now are to separate themselves from us, and erect a barrier across the mouth of that great river, of which the Ohio is a tributary, how long will it be before New York may come to the conclusion that she may set up for herself, and levy taxes upon every dollar's worth of goods imported and consumed in the Northwest, and taxes upon every bushel of wheat and every pound of pork and beef, or other productions, that may be sent from the Northwest to the Atlantic in search of a market? The very existence of the people in this great valley depends upon maintaining inviolate and forever that great right secured by the Constitution, of freedom of trade, of transit and of commerce, from the centre of the continent to the ocean that surrounds it. This right can never be surrendered (voices in the crowd, “never!"); our very existence depends upon maintaining it. The proposition now is, to separate these United States into little, petty confederacies. First, divide them into two; and then, when either party gets beaten at the next election, subdivide again (laughter and “never”)then, whenever one gets beaten again, another subdivision; and then, when you beat on Governor's election, the discomfited will rebel again, and so it will go on. And if this new system of resistance by the sword and bayonet to the result of the ballot box shall prevail here in this country of ours, the history of the United States is already written in the history of Mexico. 
It is not a question of Union or disunion. It is a question of order; of the stability of the government; of the peace of communities. The whole social system is threatened with destruction and with disruption. I cannot now go into a discussion of these questions. I have almost exhausted my strength, and voice, and life, in the last two years, in my efforts to point our the dangers upon which we were rushing. And we have no time now to stop to inquire as to the causes of these mischiefs, nor as to the merits or foibles of sects or parties. Unite as a band of brothers, and rescue your government and its capital and your country from the enemy who have been the authors of your calamity. (Tremendous cheers and cries of” “We will" “That's what we are going to do")
Mr. Douglas subsequently referred to the large number of Virginians present, and thanking them was greeted with great cheering. He made another speech, in which he vindicated General Scott:-
GENTLEMEN: I have been requested by so many different ones to make a statement in response to the inquiries that are propounded to me, that I do so as a matter of justice to an eminent patriot. I have been asked whether there is any truth in the rumor that General Scott was about to retire from the American arms. It is almost profanity to ask that question. ("Good,” “Good," and cheers for General Scott.) I saw him only last Saturday. He was at his desk, pen in hand, writing his orders for the defence and safety of the American capital. (Cheers.) Walking down the street, I met a distinguished gentleman, a member of the Virginia Convention, whom I knew personally, and had a few minutes' conversation with him. He told me he had just had an interview with Lieutenant General Scott; that he was chairman of the committee appointed by the Virginia Convention to wait upon General Scott, and tender him the command of the forces of Virginia in this struggle. General Scott received him kindly, listened to him patiently, and then said to him:” I have served my country under the flag of the Union for more than fifty years, and as long as God permits me to live, I will defend that flag with my sword, even if my own native State assails it." (Tremendous applause, and three more cheers for General Scott.) I do not pretend that I am precisely accurate in the language used, but I know I am in the idea, and I have given the language as nearly as I could repeat it. I have felt it due to him, and to the country, to make this statement in view of the reports that have been circulated, and the repeated inquiries made of me since my arrival here to-day.

SPEECH BY MR. SUMNER TO THE MASSACHUSETTS SOLDIERS.
The Third Battalion of Rifles, of Worcester, quartered at the armory of the Seventh Regiment during their stay in New York, where they drilled to the great delight of all beholders. Hon. Charles Sumner was one of the visitors, and the Battalion being called into line, he addressed the soldiers as follows:-
“Major Devins, Soldiers and Fellow-Citizens of, Massachusetts,-Here in New York I am now by accident, on my way from Washington to our own honored Commonwealth, and hearing that you were here, I came that I might have the pleasure of seeing your faces and looking once more on the light of your countenances. (Cheers.) Your commanding officer has done me the honor of inviting me to say a few words to you. I do not wish to speak now, for I know that this is no time for speaking, as the time for action has come. (Cheers.) It has belonged to me, in other places, to speak; but it belongs to you now to act. (Applause.) I do not doubt but that you will all act, fellow-citizens, as becomes the Commonwealth which has sent you out to fight. (Cheers.) I cannot here see so large a number of my fellow-citizens going forth on the duty you have undertaken, without alluding to the loss
<c04>
we have all felt I allude to the death at Baltimore of some of our honored soldiers and fellow-citizens. As I heard that they had fallen, my soul was touched. And yet, when I thought of the cause in defence of which they had met their death, I said to myself that for the sake of Massachusetts I would not have it otherwise. (Applause.) They have died well, for they died at the post of duty, and, dying as they did, they have placed themselves on the page of history precisely as their forefathers have been placed who died upon the battle-field on the 19th day of April, 1775. (Loud cheers.) It was Massachusetts blood that was first poured out in the days of the Revolution on the fields of Lexington and Concord. (Cheers.) And again it is Massachusetts blood that is now first spilled in this conflict, which is but the carrying forward of the principles of that Revolution for which your fathers bled at the battle of Lexington. I say, then, looking at this matter as we do, I would not have it otherwise. (Cheers.) They have now placed Massachusetts foremost in the field of duty, as she was foremost in that other field which heralded the triumph of independence. (Cheers.) And I have no doubt that the catastrophe which has taken place during the last few days will be followed-as that one was in 1775-by a certain triumph. (Cheers.) When your attention is drawn to the days of the Revolution, they are characterized as’ days that tried men's souls'; but when I see such willingness and alacrity on the part of my fellow-citizens now to go out and do battle for their country, I do not see that ‘men's souls are tried.' (Cheers.) And yet, I should not disguise from you, soldiers, that you have before you perils and hardships. But what is the honor of victory unless gained through peril and hardship? (Cheers.) 1 say, then, go forth and do your duty, and if you need any watchword, let it be, ‘Massachusetts, the Constitution and Freedom.' (Loud applause from the soldiers.)”

A CORRESPONDENT OF THE N. Y. TIMES IN A CHARLESTON PRISON.
"Jasper," the correspondent of the New York Times, who was arrested at Charleston for being a federal spy, gives the following account of his treatment after being arrested:-
"I left the Adger Pier at half past ten, and proceeded to my rooms in King street to obtain a little refreshment, before returning to my labors. While thus employed, I heard the hurried tread of armed men on the stairs, and then a hasty knock; when I opened the door, I saw a crowd of ten rough customers armed with revolvers, which protruded from their coats. On asking what this meant, and by what authority they acted, they pointed to the six shooters as a sufficient warrant for their proceedings. They had evidently fortified their courage with copious glasses of whiskey, and expected a terrific combat with that peaceable gentleman, the Times' correspondent. To gain time for thought, I invited them all in, and requested them to partake of the hospitalities of my private locker. Abashed at my quiet manner, they seemed inclined to back out, and all but one went down stairs. He informed me that I was arrested by order of the Government of South Carolina, being suspected of furnishing information to the Federal Government at Washington, and that I must go to the Guard-House. He would not permit me to call on friends who could have effectually disposed of this charge, but hurried me off. Arriving at the office, I was ordered to take off every article of value, watch, purse, pocket-book, etc. Even private letters from dear friends were consigned to his black list, and then I was thoroughly thumped and percussed, to see if I had any secret pockets, with cyphers, etc. I was thrust into a foul dungeon reeking with bad rum and worse tobacco, and my only couch a couple of blankets black with filth and alive with vermin. By standing on extreme tiptoe on the end of the lounge, I could just look out on the yard, where I could hear the policemen talking about the spy they had just got hold of. One of them said that I would probably be hung the next morning at sunrise in the prison yard, and the frequent sound of the hammer during the night gave extreme plausibility to this supposition. This was probably deliberately intended to torture me. Another said that the Cadets of the Citadel would have a drum-head court-martial on me as soon as Sumter was surrendered, and that I would be shot by a platoon at their encampment, adding that I was particularly obnoxious to them because I spoke in one of my letters of their impertinence in firing into the Star of the West. Another, a brutal wretch whom I afterwards recognized as that of an Ex-Municipal Policeman under Mayor Wood, said that he had heard that the Government meant to make an example of me, and shoot me a la Sepoy from the mouth of a sixty-four pounder. With these remarks close under my window, with the infernal cannonading of Fort Sumter brought close to my ears by the fresh inland breeze, and surrounded by rats, mice, bedbugs, and other vermin, I passed the night.
"Pacing my cell, unable to sleep, worn out with constant duty for the last fifty-two hours, at last the morning dawned. At 9 o'clock I was waited upon by a somewhat cheery-faced official, who facetiously asked me if I felt hungry. I told him that he must be aware that I had not tasted food for twenty-four hours, and that I had come to the conclusion that the chivalrous people of Charleston meant to reduce me by a slow process of starvation. He seemed ashamed of the acts of his superiors, and said I should not suffer for food. He cooked a nice breakfast, and brought it himself, leading me to infer that he was not a brute, if his masters were. At 10 the under-keeper came, and I told him that it was an infamous disgrace to the people of Charleston to thrust a gentleman into a reeking cell, intended only for drunken Irish and negroes, and promised him that if he would work for me, he would not lose anything by it. At 12 he brought a man who said he had orders from Gov. Pickens to send me away from the city at once. I urged him to let me call on my banker's, and get some funds, but he peremptorily declined, and said that if the soldiers saw me in the streets, they would certainly tear me in pieces. At the office they returned ray property, forcing me to thrust my things in my trunks in the most hurried manner. I was conveyed to the Northeastern Railroad Station, with only $15 to take me to New York. I expected that I would be spotted on the road by the self-appointed bloodhounds, and took measures accordingly." He was interrogated at nearly every railroad station on the road, by the secessionists, but by resorting to various expedients, he managed to pass unmolested to Wilmington, North Carolina, where he received aid, and then proceeded on to Washington.
The first official act of the representative of a foreign government indicating a recognition of the independence of the Old Dominion, was performed Friday by Hon. Mr. Moore, Her British Majesty's Consul at Richmond. In preparing the usual clearance papers for a British brig from Halifax, N. S. he erased the printed words. “United States of America," and wrote “Commonwealth of Virginia.”
<c05>
INCIDENTS OF THE WAR.
THE FIGHT AT BALTIMORE. The following is the statement of Mr. Wm. R. Patch, of the Lowell City Guards, who was one of the soldiers wounded at Baltimore:-
"When we got to Baltimore, we were detained in the cars about half an hour, then we were taken by horses to be drawn to Washington depot. Suppose we got nearly there when the mob commenced pulling up the track-then they drew us back neatly to the spot where we left the train. Then some Union men came into the cars and told us to get out, for they had gone to get a keg of powder to blow us up. Our Captain ordered us to cap our pieces and fix bayonets, and get out of the cars. We got out, and marched backward and forward about twenty minutes, when I saw one of our men, Daniel Stevens, fall. He was hit by a brick, and had three ribs broken. Then we marched up the street, and the mob crowded around us, and I being the rear man was cut off from the company, there being great confusion. After I was cut off, I defended myself as I could with my musket after which my musket was taken away, and I ran, but was struck down. When I came to myself, I found myself with half a dozen men on me. The police then came up and took them off, and took me to a station-house. There was a physician in the station-house, and he stripped me to see where I was hurt; he reported that I was so injured that I would not be able to march for some time. They took us away that night about 4 o'clock, escorted by about 400 police. There were 63 of us all, including Philadelphia soldiers. They started us away, and a squad of police went with us about ten miles to protect us from the mob. We were on the road all night, and arrived in Philadelphia about nine next morning. At Philadelphia General Butler met our band master, and passed us to New York. Col. John C. Boyd took charge of us at New York, and passed us home, taking excellent care of us. They stole my uniform and overcoat, blanket and cartridge-box at Baltimore; these were taken away from me at the station-house. I asked for them, and they said they would be sent to me."
We have a letter (says the Boston Journal) from Lieut. Rowe, of the Stoneham Company, who was in the thickest of the fight at Baltimore. It is dated Washington, April 20. He says:-
"We marched in close ranks so as not to let them get into our company. They said we could never go through alive, and called us everything but honest men. We paid no attention to them until they began to press upon us. We then moved on in double quick time, and they let the stones and bricks fly; still we did not return the fire, and they rushed for the bridge to tear it up, but we were too quick for them and rushed across, driving them at the point of the bayonet. Then the pistols of the rowdies began to play upon our men. We could not stand that, although the order was not to fire upon them. They did not know we were loaded, but every gun was, and we began to let the cold lead fly, and to lay them right and left. They were astonished, I can assure you. They seemed determined to have our colors, but were disappointed in that, and the colors went through the city in spite of the ruffians. We had the hottest time as we crossed the bridge. They piled everything in our way to stop us. I was near the colors at this time. The missiles flew like hail, and I ordered the company to fire, and they picked off six or eight of the rebels, who scattered in all directions.
“Tell Old Massachusetts to arouse, and give us more men.”
Another letter from Lieut. Lynde, of the same company, says: “We must have killed forty persons. The whole company sighted as I told them to, in order that each bullet might tell."
THE WOUNDED MASSACHUSETTS SOLDIERS IN NEW YORK. Yesterday the new Irving House, corner Twelfth street and Broadway, was the arena of some excitement for a time, which was owing to the circumstance that sixteen members of the band, two of whom were wounded in Baltimore, with two wounded soldiers of the Sixth regiment of the Massachusetts Volunteers, had arrived there, where they located until five o'clock in the evening. On their arrival, the spirited and philanthropic proprietor of the hotel, Mr. John L. Tucker, had everything requisite prepared for their comfort, which was duly appreciated by the gallant men. They are under the command of Major Wynne, and will be escorted to Boston by Col. Boyd. An officer, on being requested by our reporter to have a sight of the wounded men, complied, and the privilege was at once granted. Their wounds are of a serious, though not fatal nature; and their heads and bodies present a frightful picture of the diabolical attack that was made upon them. Broken ribs, smashed skulls, maimed limbs, are the leading traits which mark the baseness of an on slight that has stamped the city of Baltimore with eternal infamy; and the more particularly so as the act was perpetrated on unarmed and unoffending men; for the fact ought not to be glossed over, that through the bungling or mismanagement of the railway officials, the band was placed in the rear of the regiment in the cars, with only their instruments to protect them. The main body of the regiment had passed on, and the whole fighting lay between two and a half companies remaining, namely, the Stoneham company, the National Grays company, and part of the Lowell City Guard. These brave men, amounting in number to about 150, were most unmercifully assaulted by thousands of the rabble, who pelted them with paying stones and other murderous missiles, and for no provocation whatever, only that they were proceeding to the scene of action to crush rebellion and support the constitution and laws of the country.
Some conception may be formed of the deadly animus of these Baltimore secessionists when it is stated that the implements of the band were smashed and otherwise left worthless, and the large dram of the regiment is riddled to pieces in both ends, together with the destruction of the belts. One cut in the head of the drum extends a full foot in length, and the other between seven and eight inches. The members of the band also lost the greater portion of their clothing, which was either abused or stolen,-New York Herald, April 22d.
THE MASSACHUSETTS DEAD. We think few men read Gov. Andrew's despatch to the Mayor of Baltimore, requesting him to care for the Massachusetts dead” tenderly," and to send on their remains for honored burial by the Commonwealth, without tears. Yes, those bodies battered and bruised by the brutal mob, are sacred. “Tenderly” is not too gentle a word to be used for the care of them. From the plow and the fishing-boat, those hardy men, bearing the names and the memories of Concord, and Lexington, and Bunker Hill, came forth, as their fathers did of old, to offer their lives for Liberty's dear sake. Foremost in the Second War of Independence, as their forefathers were in the First, the
<c06>
very day on which the men of Lexington stained the green sward with the first blood of this Revolution, saw the men of this generation stain the streets of Baltimore with the first blood of this greater struggle.
All honor, then, to those humble men of Massachusetts, the first victims in the new war of Liberty. Unlike their ancestors, they died far from home and native soil, but like them, they died for their country. The whole nation owns them. Their names shall be preserved in the country's roll of honor.
Yes, bear the battered bodies “tenderly;" they are more sacred than the relics of the saints. Wherever they pass, let the nation's flag, which they died to defend, wave over them; let cannon thunder the martial honor, and let women and children come to drop a tear over the Massachusetts dead, who died for Country and Liberty.-New York Times.
CHALLENGE TO THE SOLDIERS OF MASSACHUSETTS. The following document (says the Boston Traveller) was received at this office by mail, this morning. The envelop bore the post mark of Charleston, S. C., and we therefore have no doubt that it is genuine:-
“CHARLESTON, S. C., April 19, 1861.
To the Editors of the Boston Traveller:
GENTLEMEN,-On behalf of the South Carolina Volunteers, I am deputed to request Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, through you, that the military contingent of your State be sent to South Carolina. In making this request, I assure you I but express the wish of every man, woman and child in our State. We number about 10,000 men, well armed and accoutred, and anxious for a fight, and cordially invite any number from your section to give us a meeting. Do not, however, send them in the fleet that appeared off Charleston harbor during the bombardment of Fort Sumter, for fear their timidity will interfere with their landing. Send all Massachusetts men-none from Pennsylvania, for the Regiment of that State flunked at Cerro Gordo; nor from New York, for at Cherubusco, (although they claimed and received the right from the Palmetto Regiment.) at the first fire, the gallant New Yorkers fell back, and hid behind a barn; nor from Indiana, for at Palo Alto, the nimble Regiment from that State fled in inglorious confusion. Send your Sumners, your Wilsons, your Burlingames, and a host of similar notables, and we pledge our honors, our lives, and all that we hold sacred, that none others but the Palmetto Boys shall interfere with them. We want them exclusively for our own use. 
This request is made in good faith, and on signifying your acceptance of our offer, every arrangement will be made to give you a safe passport to our shores.
ON BEHALF OF THE S. C. VOLUNTEERS.”
MORE SOUTHERN RASCALITY. The following is a copy of a letter received by a manufacturer of boots and shoes in Haverhill:-
"RICHMOND, Va., April 18,1861.
Messrs.-, Haverhill, Mass:
Owing to the declaration of war against our beloved South, and the necessity of our arming and fighting, instead of pursuing the peaceful avocations of commerce, we have given up ourselves fully and freely to the work before us, and our resources are to be held at the disposal of the State until the issue is finally determined, when, if we have sufficient availabilities or assets left to meet our liabilities, it shall be done.
But until this fraticidal war is closed, we shall decline paying any of our debts due to parties in the North, where they have drawn the sword against us. Hence the protest of our note in your favor this day, which we have the funds in bank to meet.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) WESTON & WILLIAMS.”
This is an exact copy, underlined as they underlined it They owe different parties here to the amount of several thousand dollars. N.
Boston Journal.
MOBBING NEWSPAPER OFFICES. The hitherto bitter pro-slavery newspapers at the North, who have countenanced the suppression of free speech, find the tables turned against them, and are now made to feel the mob spirit that they have encouraged. The New York Herald, which has been foremost in bringing about the present stale of affairs at the South, has yielded to public opinion, and in the short space of one day, after he had been compelled to show the Government ensign, to save the office from destruction, Bennett met with an entire change of heart, (to all outward appearances,) and his editorials are now as brim full of loyalty as they were of treason. On Wednesday, a mob of several thousand visited the Journal of Commerce office, and its property was only saved by displaying the star-spangled banner, amid intense excitement. The Express, Day-Book, and Daily News, all extremely Southern, were visited, and obliged to comply with the demands of the crowd. Similar occurrences have taken place in Philadelphia, Jersey City, Wilksbarre, Pa., and other places. Mob-law is to be dreaded under all circumstances; but the editors who have so often resorted to force, in order to put down those who disagreed with them, now have the full benefit of the spirit that they have so long fostered. It may teach them a valuable lesson.- Northampton Free Press.
MAJOR ANDERSON. Shortly after Major Anderson’s arrival, he was waited upon by the staff of the headquarters of the army. He turned over his command to the Colonel of the station, who ordered it to Fort Hamilton, that being the quietest and most agreeable post in the neighborhood. In reply to a question as to the conduct, of the men, the Major said to a gentleman connected with the army: “Until a man is half starved, half smothered, half poisoned, and on the verge of eternity, in this state he never can know what men I had, or understand the measure of the valor that made surrender the last thought with them.”
MAJOR ANDERSON WANTS TO COMMAND THE NEW JERSEY TROOPS. A letter received by a young man in this city, from a friend in New York, N. J , states that Major Robert Anderson, the hero of Sumter, a New Jerseyman by, adoption, has asked permission to take command of the volunteer troops, from that State, and promises to lead them into Fort Sumter. His wishes will undoubtedly be acceded to by the government-Boston Journal. 
Hundreds of Northern men have been pressed into the Southern army against their will. The troops were drilling daily, and there were confident expectations of whipping the Abolitionists, as they termed the North. Enormous taxes were imposed. A gentleman who owned a house which rented for seven hundred dollars per annum, had been presented a tax bill for the same to the amount of eight hundred dollars!
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.”
What order of men under, the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was over invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility over known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind, It is doubly tainted, with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE WAR EXCITEMENT.
Though the city still wears the appearance, and exhibits the bustle of a garrison town, there is a considerable abatement in the excitement prevalent a week ago. The general belief that the greatest danger has been averted appears to have tranquillized the public mind; and the vast cohorts hourly moving to the seat of trouble, are satisfying the people that Washington must now be reinforced beyond any peril from rebel invasion.
The diversity of opinions among different people concerning the prospects of the country are amusing, in spite of their seriousness. We, yesterday morning, sat in the parlor of the Continental, where a group of gentlemen were discussing the movement of events.
"I came home last night," said one gentleman. "from an eight months' tour through Virginia and Tennessee. Jefferson Davis was to be at Richmond to-day, and over 20,000 men from eastern Virginia are ready to follow him to the capital."
"You are a Union man, I suppose?" queried a second gentleman.
"To my very soul, but you see I look for the worst. In all eastern Virginia, you can't find a Union man. I met Senator Mason in the cars on the Baltimore and Ohio railroad. Senator Mason stopped at every town of any size, and spoke to the people, stirring up their worst passions against the North."
"And what did he say to them?"
"Why, that Abe Lincoln's only object was to set free the negroes, and to arm the slaves against their masters. In one speech I heard him say that, unless Virginia took the Capital, the negroes would murder every white man in the State, and that property in Virginia would decline 75 per cent, in value before six months had passed."
"And the people believed these absurd statements?"
"Believe them! Indeed they did. More than this, after one of Senator Mason's speeches, the mob burned out a poor mechanic, turning his wife and three children into the streets, and only because he said that Senator Mason told lies, and that the South was perverted in judgment."
"Do you find any Union men in eastern Virginia or Tennessee?" asked a lady.
"Not one, madam. There may be Union men there, but the terrors of the brand and the sword, of red-handed murder, or cruelty still more horrible, have crushed out all Union feeling, or, at any rate, all free expression of opinion among the people."
"Do you think Virginia will raise a large army?"
"I do, and for the simple reason that Tennessee and Virginia have lost all their business, and thousands of people have no other means of earning a living than by standing up to be shot at. As to the negroes, their suffering is very great. There are thousands of them whose whole means of subsistence, under the most exhausting labor, is but a peck of corn a week. The poor whites generally are in abject misery, and, after enlisting, are infinitely worse off than the slaves. Everybody distrusts everybody else, and Virginia is now in a truly deplorable condition; while Tennessee already repents her rashness, and is pausing to consider what she shall do in the future."
At this juncture, a South Carolinian interposed a word. "My State," said he, "suffers more than either. I left Charleston on Sunday. I carry on the jewelry business, and have been mulcted in $2,500 in 'forced loans.' I was a Southern man with Southern principles, and went with South Carolina right or wrong. But mob law I cannot countenance. A mob came to my house, quartered themselves upon me, demanded and received ten dollars each before they would leave, and, when they did go, robbed my watch-case of its choicest contents. I sold out as soon as I could, at a sacrifice of fifty per cent, on first cost, and am thankful to get away even on these terms. Had I remained a week longer, I should have been impoverished by repeated demands for money."
"What of the leaders in your State, sir?" asked a citizen. 
"Why, I firmly believe that if Jeff. Davis, Beauregard, Twiggs, and all the traitor horde, could have foreseen what the last two days have brought forth, they would have cut off their right arms before taking their late fatal step. I have been among the Southern leaders, and know them well. It was their firm expectation that when the South took its stand upon the North, and stopped all its orders for merchandise, the laborers and operatives of the North would rise in rebellion. They expected a series of bread riots in every Northern city, and that while the North was suppressing domestic dissensions, they could march upon the Capital, and reduce the value of the stars and stripes to a mere bit of bunting."
"The negroes in South Carolina, sir, do they cause any apprehensions?"
"No, sir, not much. The intelligent negroes are either imprisoned or so isolated as to prevent communication with their fellows. Any negro detected in imparting information to his fellow slaves concerning the true character of the struggle is flogged until almost dead, and if still distrusted is shipped to Louisiana. The negroes suffer sadly now. An act that under former circumstances would be punished at the severest but with chastisement, is now atoned for by a bullet."
"Do you think that there is any danger to the Capital, sir, from the Southern army?"
"I do not, though Jefferson Davis is said to be one of the greatest living military engineers, and though it is said that the South has the flower of the United States army in its ranks. Beauregard expects to surprise Washington, not to capture it by fair means."
"Do you know Jeff. Davis or Beauregard, sir? "
"I do."
"And your opinion of them?"
"Beauregard is an able general, but unscrupulous and ambitious. Italian blood flows in his veins, and if necessary to the accomplishment of his purposes, he would betray his Master, as did Judas Iscariot. He is unquestionably brave, and as full of cruelty as he is of courage. The men under him, if called into action, would shoot him, before firing a shot at their enemy."
"And Jefferson Davis?"
"I do not know him as well as Beauregard; but this I know, that both of them would gladly retrace the steps they have taken, and are heartily sorry that they ever placed themselves in the attitude of traitors,"
The general opinion of the company present-most of whom were Southerners, but Union men-was that the South is already cowed by the attitude of the North, and that the Capital is safe beyond a peradventure, providing the government permits no cessation in its precautionary diligence-Philadelphia U. S. Gazette, April 25th.

A WAR SPEECH FROM SENATOR DOUGLAS.
Senator Douglas was publicly received by the Illinois Legislature on the 25th ult., and made a patriotic speech, urging immediate action in support of the government. He said:ï¿½
"Most of you know that I am a very good fighter in times of partisan strife. I hope to show you all that I am an equally good patriot in the time of my country's danger. It is now your imperative duty to throw party and party platforms to the winds, and forget that you ever differed. Give me a country where my children can live in peace, and then we can have a theatre, if we desire, for partisan controversies.
We are called upon to fold our arms and see our Capital seized, our archives carried away by those who glory in trampling the American flag in the dust. Illinois and my native State would say to-day, that if I had committed an error in my political career, it has consisted in leaning too far towards the South. I have never pandered to the prejudices of the North against the minority section. While I will never invade the constitutional rights of the South, nor sanction their invasion by others, I want them distinctly to understand that they must not invade my constitutional rights, (Loud cheers.)
It is a prodigious crime against the freedom of the world to blot the United States out of the map of Christendom. What do we see? Washington to be bombarded! The President of the United States and his Cabinet, elected, and appointed to their places by the same authority as George Washington and his constitutional advisers, to be carried off as hostages! The very demon of destruction to be let loose in the land! How long do you think it will be ere the guillotine is in operation?
Allow me to say to my former political enemies, you will not be true to your country if you seek to make political capital out of these disasters. (Applause.) And to my old friends, you will be false and unworthy of your principles if you allow political defeat to convert you into traitors to your national land! The shortest war now to peace consists in the most stupendous and unanimous preparation for war." (Vociferous cheering.)
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1861.
THE ANNUAL MEETING POSTPONED.
In view of the unparalleled excitement now existing throughout the country, arising from the treasonable attempt of the Southern slave oligarchy to overturn the General Government, and to erect an exclusively slaveholding despotism upon its ruins, to the overthrow of all free institutions, it is deemed by the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society a measure of sound expediency to postpone the usual anniversary of the Society, in the city of New York, in May next, until further noticeï¿½a decision which they are confident will be most cordially ratified by the members and friends of the Society; especially in view of the cheering fact that there is at last a North as well as a South, and that the present tremendous conflict is in its tendencies strongly and irresistibly toward the goal of universal emancipation, or else a separation between the free and slave-holding States, in accordance with the principle of " No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!" Let nothing be done, at this solemn crisis, needlessly to check or divert the mighty current of popular feeling which is now sweeping southward with the strength and impetuosity of a thousand Niagaras, in direct conflict with that haughty and perfidious Slave Power which has so long ruled the republic with a rod of iron for its own base and satanic purposes.
The annual meeting of the Society stands postponed until further notice.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretary
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretary
The same weighty considerations which have made it advisable to postpone the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at New York, will also apply to the meeting of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention in Boston, Anniversary Week, and it will accordingly be omitted.
We are also authorized to announce the postponement of the National Woman's Rights Convention, advertised to be held in New York next week.
THE WAR ï¿½ITS CAUSE AND CURE.
Eighty-five years ago, the war-cry of "INDEPENDENCE" rang throughout all the American Colonies, and a united people took up arms to sunder their connection forever with the mother country. The latter had been guilty of a long series of aggressions and usurpations toward the former, indicating "a design to reduce them under absolute bondage," and had haughtily disregarded all appeals to her sense of justice. As between the parties, they were in the right, and she flagrantly in the wrong. On the 4th of July, 1776, in justification of their course, they published their world-famous Declaration of Independence, in which they held "these truths to be self-evident:ï¿½that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." At that time, they held in the galling chains of chattel servitude half a million of slaves! By the standard which they had erected, and by the eternal law of justice, their first duty obviously was to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof." Instead of doing this, they went through their seven years' struggle, mingling the clanking of fetters, and the crack of the slave whip, and the groans of their imbruted victims with their cries for liberty and their shouts of victory! It was a revolting spectacle, and a horrible paradox, admitting of no justification, or even apology. When their independence was achieved, and it became necessary for them to crystallize their several powers into one general government, instead of abolishing what Mr. Madison justly characterized as "the most oppressive dominion ever exercised by man over man," they proceeded to make that oppression organic, by granting to it certain constitutional guaranties, whereby it should derive nourishment, defence and security from the whole body politic. This was the result of a compromise, in order to make the Union complete and enduring. There was, indeed, to some extent, a sense of shame, a struggle of conscience, and a geographical division, on this subject, in the convention which framed the Constitution. "The States," says Mr. Madison, "were divided into different interests, not by their difference of size, but principally from the effects of their having or not having slaves. It did not lie between the large and small States, but between the Northern and Southern." Rufus King confirms this statement. " The Southern States," said Mr. Mason, "have this peculiar species of property over and above the other species of property common to all the States," and they demanded and obtained special consideration for it:ï¿½1. Securing, for the benefit of its owners, a representation of three-fifths of slave property, in Congressï¿½thus constituting a slave aristocracy in that body from the beginning. 2. Tolerating and protecting the foreign slave trade for a period of twenty years; Roger Sherman, of Connecticut, (whose virtue in the convention was extremely facile,) saying, "It was better to let the Southern States import slaves than to part with them, if they made that a sine qua non." 3. Providing for the hunting and recapture of fugitive slaves in every State in the Union. "This clause," said Mr. Madison in the Virginia Conventionï¿½referring to the clause, "No person held to service or labor," &c-" was expressly inserted to enable owners of slaves to reclaim them "; and under it they have been reclaimed ever since, in every part of the country. 4. Providing for the suppression of domestic insurrectionï¿½including, of course, that of the slave population.
Having thus violated its own Heaven-attested principles, and given its connivance, if not its full sanction, to a form of despotism, in comparison with which, that of the mother country was not cognizable, the nation commenced its guilty career, vainly imagining that all danger was past, that its own oppression would go unwhipt of justice, and that the Union would endure forever. It continued to increase in population, in material prosperity, in military and naval power, in the arts and sciences, in general education, and in geographical extension, until twenty-one new States were added to the original thirteen, and its rank among the nations was of the first class; until it almost seemed, indeed, as if to make " a covenant with death and an agreement with hell" were the safest and surest way to greatness, for a just God had ceased to reign over the earth, and no law of retribution remained to be enforced! But the illusion is overï¿½the foundation gives wayï¿½a tempest of divine fury sweeps over the landï¿½and the horrors of civil war are upon us! "The pride of thy heart hath deceived thee, saith the Lord God; though thou exalt thyself as the EAGLE, and though thou set thy nest among the STARS, thence will I bring thee down." Why? Hearken!ï¿½"For thy violence against thy brother Jacob, shame shall cover thee. Thou shouldest not have stood in the cross-way, to cut off those of his that did escape; neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remain in the day of distress." Therefore it is that "the Lord hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land; by swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and blood touched blood; therefore, shall the land mourn." Indeed, nothing could more truthfully depict the cause of our present national visitation than the words of the prophet:-"Thus saith the Lord, Ye have not hearkened untoonto me, in proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine."
The sword is come, and pestilence and famine will in due time follow in its train. The conflict threatens
<c03>
to be more sanguinary and bloody, and on a more tremendous scale, than has yet been witnessed in any nation. What forces are mustering for the death-grapple between the North and the South!
"And there is rushing in hot haste: the steed,
The mustering squadron, and the clattering car,
Go pouring forward with impetuous speed,
And swiftly forming in the ranks of war;
And the deep thunder, peal on peal afar-
And, near, the beat of the alarming drum
Rouses the soldier ere the morning star;
While throng the citizens with terror dumb,
Or whispering with white lipsï¿½' The foe! they come!
they come!'"
This is the settlement-day of Almighty God for two centuries of traffic in "slaves and the souls of men "! By slavery the whole land has been defiled; and by slaveholders, in their mad idolatry of that foul system, is civil war precipitated upon the land! In self-defence, those who have hitherto been their accomplices at the North, are compelled to meet them in battle array, each party hot to exterminate the other! Slavery abolished, and how instantaneously would the flames of war be extinguished, the source of all our national troubles dried up, reconciliation everywhere effected, and a true and majestic Union organized, reaching from the Lakes to the Gulf, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, blending together men of all races and climes in one common brotherhood! What imagination can depict the peace, prosperity, strength, unity, and moral and religious development, that would now distinguish the nation, if on the 4th of July, 1776, or at the formation of the Federal Constitution, slavery had been utterly abolished! Long ere this, the effect of our truly democratic example would have been irresistible in bringing every despotic throne to the dust, and giving freedom to a groaning world. Alas! that, by our shameful inconsistency, we have made democracy a bye-word and a hissing even in the most despotic countries!
What shall be said, then, of those who insist upon ignoring the question of slavery as not involved in this deadly feud, and maintain that the only issue is, the support of the government and the preservation of the Union? Surely, they are "fools and blind"; for it is slaveholders alone who have conspired to seize the one, and overturn the other. As long as the enslavement of a single human being is sanctioned in the land, the curse of God will rest upon it. That it may go well with us, let us break every yoke! 
It alters nothing to say, that the South is guilty of unparalleled perfidy and treason. Granted! But why overlook the cause of all this? That cause is SLAVERY! If that be not removed, how is it possible to escape the consequences? Suppose we succeed in "conquering a peace," leaving things as they were; in due time, a still more fearful volcanic explosion will follow.
As between the North and the South, the conflict cannot long be doubtful; for, in point of numbers, resources, energy, courage, and valor, the latter can bear no comparison with the former. But, after the subjugation of the South, what then? Will that bring reconciliation? Is the old "covenant with death" to be renewed, and the "agreement with hell" to stand as hitherto? Is a slave representation still to be allowed on the floor of Congress? Are fugitive slaves still to be hunted as freely in the old Bay State as in Carolina? Are slave insurrections still to be quelled by the strong arm of the general government, if required? Are the " stars and stripes " still to represent fifteen slave as well as nineteen free States, and still to wave over four millions of crouching, marketable human chattels? Is lynch law still to be administered to all Northern men at the South who prefer freedom to slavery? Is freedom of speech still to be mobbed afresh, and the moral agitation for the overthrow of slavery again branded as fanaticism, and forcibly suppressed if possible? If so, then better that the flag be forever furled! If so, then accursed be such a political structure, from foundation to top-stone! If so, then hundreds of millions of dollars will have been spent, and rivers of blood shed, to none other than an evil purpose!
It is true, Mr. Stephen A. Douglas says, in a recent speech delivered at Columbus, Ohio-" The issue is not the negro; this question is above all the negroes in Christendom; it involves the freedom and independence of the ten millions, soon to be a hundred millions, of free white men in this valley." Other prominent men have uttered the same heartless and absurd declaration. As rationally might Pharaoh and the Egyptians have averred, while tormented with the lice, blains, murrain, and other judgments sent upon them for their cruel oppression of the children of Israel, ' The issue is not the Jew "! It was the Jew then, and it is the negro nowï¿½involving in his enslavement the most tremendous consequences to his enslavers, and a direful visitation to the whole country. "For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him." Ours should be the penitent confession of the brethren of Joseph: "We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; THEREFORE IS THIS DISTRESS COME UPON US."
Now, we solemnly maintain, that it is the most deplorable infatuation to aim to restore the old order of things. No blessing can attend it. God has frowned upon it, and, through judgment, provided a way of escape. Nothing is more clear than that an "irrepressible conflict" between slavery and freedom must continue. It is useless to deny that the Union is dissolved, and every slave State virtually in rebellion against the government. Let there be no more compromise. In humbling the Southern conspirators, let the government, UNDER THE WAR POWER, either proclaim emancipation to all in bondage, or else take measures for a final and complete separation between the free and slave States. Unquestionably, the former course would be justified by the exigencies of the country, and be the readiest way to bring the war to a close, and the traitors to terms. It would also be the greatest boon that could possibly be bestowed upon the South. But if this measure be deemed questionable, then for a free, independent Northern republic, leaving the South to her fate!
Out of the slave system comes this terrible civil war, with whatever ghastly horrors may follow in its train. So Divine Justice has ordered it, that both North and South may be scourged for their transcendant iniquity in tolerating such a system in the land. Is it not so, Mr. Edward Everett, Mr. Millard Fillmore, Mr. Franklin Pierce, Mr. Stephen Arnold Douglasï¿½Democrats and Republicans all? Say, are they freemen or slaveholders who have perfidiously captured forts, arsenals, magazines, mints, revenue cutters, steamships, and custom-houses, and are now plotting the seizure of the Capital? Men of the North! is it not your mission, in this campaign, to make it possible for a free government and a glorious Union to exist, by decreeing the extinction of slavery as utterly antagonistical to both? No class of human beings living have such claims upon your sympathy, justice, and benevolent intervention, as the slaves of the South. No cause is so sacred as theirs. In Heaven's name, do nothing to keep them longer in their chains! Do everything rightfully in your power those chains to sunder!
If this war shall put an end to that execrable system, it will be more glorious in history than that of the Revolution. If it shall leave it unscathed, and in full operation,ï¿½even though Southern treason may for a time be " crushed out,"ï¿½there will be nothing to look for but heavier judgments and an irrevocable doom! "For the sword of the Lord shall devour from the one end of the land to the other: no flesh shall have peace.... O house of David, thus saith the Lord, Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn that none can quench it, BECAUSE THE EVIL OF YOUR DOINGS... Undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free; then shalt thou be like a watered garden, and like a fountain whose waters fail not; and they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt be called, THE REPAIRER OF THE BREACH,THE RESTORER OFPATHS TO DWELL IN."
<c04>
"NEW OCCASIONS TEACH NEW DUTIES."
Thirty years ago, at the commencement of a missionary enterprise which has proceeded with unabated vigor ever since, the Abolitionists tried to convince the slaveholders that their "peculiar institution" was, on the whole, as injurious to themselves and their country as it was unjust to the slaves. They adapted themselves to the various grades of intelligence and moral perception existing among the Southern people, as patiently and persistently as Paul adapted himself to similar grades among Jews and Gentiles, elaborating the proof of things that were to them already clear as daylight. That ignorance as well as wickedness might be left without excuse, they demonstrated that slaveholding was unjust, wasteful, foolish and pernicious, alike to the individual and the community, and they demonstrated that immediate and unconditional emancipation was feasible, safe, advantageous to the individual and the community, and the very best method possible both for present and ultimate welfare. They tried all this, and failed?
As Paul, when rejected by the Jews, turned to the Gentiles, so these modern evangelists, being cursed and repudiated by the South, turned to the North. And since the clergy were the acknowledged leaders of the North, and, moreover, men professionally pledged to the rebuke of sin and the advocacy of righteousness, the Abolitionists tried next to enlist them in the cause of the slave. Here, again, they utterly failed. 
Turning, next, directly to the people of the North, these despised and rejected ones patiently re-argued the whole matter, demonstrating the suffering of the slaves, the guilt of the masters, the complicity of the North, and the yet grosser complicity of the clergy, in this guilt, and the responsibility of every citizen of the United States for the sin and shame of its continuance. Here again they failed, as far as the direct and thorough accomplishment of their purpose was concerned.
With all these failures, they accomplished an indirect success, which, however disproportionate to their wishes, was in amazing and most encouraging contrast to their numbers, their public estimation, and their apparent means of influence. They made half-converts of a very great number of people, representing all classes, conditions, and grades of intelligence. Still, since these were but half-converts, the work was not accomplished, and the enterprise was still a failure.
All this time the slave was crying, "How long, O Lord, how long?" During the thirty years that he had had an advocate and a friend, his condition had remained as for a century-and-a-half preceding, when he had no earthly friend. How much soever force may be applied to the lever, until it succeeds in moving the rock, the rock remains where it was. Up nearly to the present time, the slave has found himself crushed and trampled, precisely as before. He now finds a new situation, and new powers, suddenly arising for his deliverance 
It now seems as if Divine Providence, waiting no longer for the conversion of either South or North, was about to accomplish the deliverance of the slave by the short method. Time has been given for the spontaneous turning away of the wicked from his wickedness; time, again, for listening to the voice of the Heaven-sent preachers of freedom, proclaiming the one right and best way of reparation; time, again, for the North and the South to unite upon some other plan, seeking, in some way, however tardy and imperfect, an utter abandonment of their common guilt. The unspeakably precious opportunities thus offered have each, and alike, been rejected. And it now seems as if the God of the oppressed had grasped this guilty nation, and was about to shake it free from slavery, leaving both principal and accomplice to suffer the dreadful evils incident to such a termination, since they resolutely refused to adopt the better method.
The North has refused to obey God's message to her by the Abolitionists; has refused to act in direct opposition to slavery. As the immediate result of that disobedience, she now finds slavery so increased in power as to make open war upon her, and thus finds herself compelled to choose between submission and self-defence. But the action of a Providence that shapes our ends appears in this, that the movement now made by the North, simply for self-preservation, and without care or thought for the slave, is the very action needed to help the slave to self-enfranchisement. The movement Northward of any considerable force of slaveholders will relieve the pressure heretofore continually urged upon the prostrate slave, and will be the signal to him to break his chain. Moreover, the President of the United States is pledged to put down insurrections, and to call for whatever force may be needful for that purpose. Against the extensive insurrection now raging, he can find no force so efficient as that of the slaves, and he will soon find himself compelled (compelled by the very action of their masters) to call upon them for that purpose. What a signal instance of poetical justice it is, that the Constitution itself, so long used by our executive to uphold slavery, should require the existing President to take a step which must destroy it! What a splendid example of the insecurity of tyranny, that her master-piece of policy, contrived against the slave, should now work at once his release and the overthrow of his oppressor!
What, under these circumstances, is the duty of the Abolitionist? I reply, while, of course, it remains the same in substance as heretofore, the immensely changed position of affairs will require it to be different in method.
1. Up to this time, it has been the duty of the Abolitionists to stimulate an indifferent people to interest and action. All at once, a new influence, interposing, has thoroughly aroused this people, and set them in enthusiastic action. Swayed by motives other than ours, and working by other means than ours, the Northern people are now united in opposition to the power that upholds slavery. For the first time in this contest, it has become our part to "stand still, and see the salvation of God." Our work is now doing by other hands faster than we can do it.
2. Hitherto, living under a government engaged in the active support of slavery, the obedience required of us as citizens has often been in conflict with our duty as lovers of justice, humanity and freedom. Now, for the first time, we find our State governments and our Federal government united in active and hearty opposition to the power that upholds slavery. They can do vastly more than we can to oppose it. Yes, their indirect action opposes it more effectively than our direct action. Every consideration, then, calls upon us to rally to the support of both these administrations, and to uphold the United States flag in opposition to the Slave Power. The States that remain "United" will soon be completely free from slavery. As soon as this process is completed, Abolitionists will at once become the most thorough of "Union men" Our part is to be zealous in support of the Union, the moment the Union is divorced from slavery.
3. While we wait, standing still to see the salvation of Godï¿½intermitting that protest of ours against the Slave Power, which would divide the force and divert the action of those who are now most effectively opposing the power that upholds slavery, let us see to it that we watch as well as wait. At every pause of arms, there will be new danger of compromise. When the North has grown tired of a war which she waged not for principle but in self-defence, Pilate and Herod will resume their crafty policy. Seward and Douglas will seek to enlarge the territory of that Northern nation over which each still hopes to reign, by keeping, or re-admitting, slaveholding States as constituent parts of it. Against this, or any approach to action like this, when it comes, the voice of the Abolitionists must again be uplifted like a trumpet That it may have more force then, let it rest in comparative quiet now. The "reserve" is not the least important part of the army. But, that it may be a reserve, it must needs wait until some fighting has been done by the main body-C. K. W.
<c05>
GRADUAL EMANCIPATION.
An article in the April number of the North American Review (understood to have been written by the Editor) considers "Slavery, Its Origin and Its Remedy," with the customary indulgence of that publication for everything" established." An aristocrat, Emerson tells us, is a democrat "run to seed." The North American Review is the representative of a very large number of that class of democrats, yet existing in New England. Their feelings respecting the "institutions of society," good, bad and indifferent, correspond precisely to that which the English Squire expressed in regard to the Episcopal Church, when a dissenter was complaining of its faults. "I go for our church," he said, "because it is established; and whenever you get your damned thing established, I'll go for that."
During the whole life-time of the North American Review, slavery has been "respectable." In its pages, therefore, slavery is always calmly and sedately considered, as something that has claims on our indulgence; the slaveholder is always calmly and sedately recognized as a gentleman and a brother; and the slave is always calmly and sedately ignored as a human being, but recognized as a moveable; as something that is to be done with, and done for, just what suits the convenience of the other parties concerned.
The more readily to pave the way for a reception of these assumptions as plausible, the article in question assumes that slavery exists all over the world; that society must be divided into " the privileged classes and the proletaries"; and that, since the imported Africans and their descendants are here in such large numbers, " they must needs be slaves in some form." 
The only remedy for slavery (the writer says) is in " the prevalence of Christian principle," which he recognizes as already abundantly existing among his Southern brethren, and which is in no degree impeached by their continuing, for the present, to compel the descendants of Africans to remain an unprivileged class. Of course, he uses no such severe and discourteous language as I have used in the last sentence. It is the laws, the system, the institution, necessity, which constitute this compulsion; and he takes care never to recognize the fact that the voters of each slave State can abolish slavery there whenever they please; they are, for the present, as a matter of course, to maintain their decorous and stately march over the necks of " the proletaries," not perceiving, in fact, that there is any other place whereon to tread, and not taking the trouble to inquire whether there be any such place! It is noteworthy, however, that this writer, like his clients, looks steadily in the opposite direction whenever the abolitionists point out the path of duty and safety; he confidently affirms thatï¿½
"In no respect is the condition of the African slaves the better, or the prospect of their emancipation the nearer, for all that has been said and done at the North."
So Sam. Weller, when the Judge asked him if he saw his father in the court-room, looked intently into the centre of the great chandelier, and reported that he didn't see him.
The idea in the sentence above quoted is, of course, a matter of opinion, and, no doubt, many people really hold it; but when our author proceeds to represent as a fact thatï¿½" our reformers are prone to speak slightingly of the Apostles and their Divine Master, because they took no direct cognizance of the system that was a plague-spot on the whole Roman empire"-he shows himself either not familiar with the writings and speeches of abolitionists, or willing to misrepresent them.
The "remedy " for slavery proposed by this writer (for many expressions in his article declare, while its title implies, that slavery is an evil, and requires a remedy,) seems to be essentially like that of Henry Clay, who proposed a gradual emancipation; an emancipation so very gradual that it would not begin to operate in his life-time, or in that of his existing family. So our author, proposing "ultimate" emancipation as the only end which Christian philanthropy can hold in view, insists that the chain must be filed away "little by little." The prospect now seems to be that the slaveholders, in their very movement for strengthening this chain, will sever it, and will do it by the sword instead of by the file.
Another plea for gradual emancipation appears in a pamphlet (without name of author or publisher) entitledï¿½"Slavery and Serfdom Considered." The writer, feeling nothing but friendship for his Southern brethren, (meaning the slaveholders, but not the slaves,) wishes to "suggest to their calm consideration"ï¿½wisely parenthesizing " (if it be possible to procure it)"ï¿½a moderate, peaceful and sure remedy, both for present excitement and all further trouble about the slaves. Here is his plan, pp. 8, 9:ï¿½
"It is simply to shut down the gate, not only of importation, but emigrationï¿½and to say to every slave and every slaveholder, "As you are." There shall be no transference of property in a slave. Whoever has a slave to-day, shall keep him so long as he lives, on the same soil, unless a change can be provided for by other means than a sale and transfer from one master to another. They shall henceforth be bound to the soil of the estate on which they stand. They will become, by this enactment, serfs instead of slaves. They may be as useful as ever to their masters, and in case of the death of the master, he may leave his landed estate to one son; or it may be divided, in such proportion as may please him, between two or more parties; and the slaves may also be divided, pro rata, but shall remain ' ascripti giebce."
This writer suggests also that the negro serf may emancipate himself by purchase, provided he will comply with the indispensable condition of returning to Africa. He thinks that circumstances (which alter cases, and sometimes "hard cases,") may now dispose slaveholders to look favorably upon this plan, which, in his judgment, promises immunity alike from Abolition and Secession. And he proceeds to demonstrate to the slaveholdersï¿½as if their pretence to the contrary had ever been other than a transparent lieï¿½that white men can work in the Southern climate just as well as black men. He will find that even the attractive sauce of calumny against the Abolitionists will fail to make this proposition palatable to the slaveholders; that they know what they want much better than he can tell them; and that, if the acceptance of his scheme really depends upon its " calm consideration by the Southern gentry," it could hardly have appeared more inopportunely-C. K. w.
JOHN BROWS "STILL LIVES" IN THE HEARTS OF HIS COUNTRYMEN. The Journal's "own correspondent," writing from the vicinity of Fort Monroe, under date of April 23, says:
"One of our officers has just come back from Fort Monroe, where a large body of your troops are stationed. The boys were having a good time, and as the boat drew near, the men were heard singing in firm strains and full chorus,
'May Heaven's rays look kindly down 
Upon the grave of old John Brown!'
These men mean something."
Indeed they do!ï¿½and hundreds of thousands join with them in their benedictions to the memory of the martyr-hero of Harper's Ferry. When the air of Virginia is stirred by such an "air" from the hearts of Northern hosts in her midst, let her take warning! " With whatsoever measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."
A TIMELY AND EXCELLENT LECTURE. "Violations of the Federal Constitution, in the Irrepressible Conflict between the Pro-Slavery and Anti-Slavery Sentiments of the American People-a Lecture delivered in sundry places during January and February, 1861, by ADIN BALLOU," is the title of a pamplet just published at Hopedale, the appearance of which is timely, and its general circulation very desirable. We shall make some extracts from it in our next number.
For an interesting letter from Miss HOLLEY, giving a graphic account of her late visit to the attractive home of GERRIT SMITH, at Peterboro', (where such multitudes have been hospitably entertained and generously aided,) see our last page.
<c06>
THE RISING CLOUD OF WAR.
SALEM, (Ohio,) April 26, 1861.
Editor of the Liberator:
DEAR FRIEND,ï¿½It was Robespierre, I think, who said in one of his terrible "mountain" speeches, "It is well to pause between the acts of a great drama, like the present, to consider the causes that have led to it, and the conclusion toward which it tends."
This will apply to American as well as French revolutions. While that splendid freebooter, Jefferson Davis, arranges his plans, and our own tardy government prepares to defeat them, we have leisure to look at the posture of our nation, and consider the causes that precipitate it into the tragedy about to close upon us. Criminations are useless. We could not, perhaps, put our finger on the individual most to blame in the affair, nor is it needful to do so. Some of us see " God behind the shadow " of this great uprising cloud of war, and firmly believe that the storm, so soon to burst, will clear the way for the shining of His light, and that the ends of the conflict between North and South are His, however it may now be decided.
The long account of our national crime will be pressed upon us for speedy settlement; but who could have expected it would not be? "I tremble for my country," said the far-seeing Thomas Jefferson; and since that time, has each succeeding year, with its history of usurpations, cruelties, treacheries, brought less cause for trembling? Has the master become more humane and just, the slave more man-like, through their mutual relation? I apprehend you see no cause to regret having long ago set your foot upon the ground of " No Compromise with Oppressionï¿½no Union with Slavery," and that, in the shock of the approaching combat, you will not feel it tremble under you.
Fort Sumter spoke those words with shot and shell, and every rock and hill of the North reverberates them. Not by any means that war between brothers is God's chosen means of fulfilling justice, but it is the dread alternative invoked by a people who had rejected all other means.
Now as the serpent slavery uncoils from Northern limbs, and stretches its hideous length on the ground, our people become aware of the degradation and death they suffered in its embrace. When the manly blood starts in Northern veins, they see how dull and thick it was growing. "This is not a war against slavery," says Stephen A. Douglas. That is not for him to say. "There is a cause above the negroï¿½our rights." In deed! There is a cause above us all, little giants though we might be, every one;ï¿½the cause of eternal right, which none may control when the conflict comes; and if we of the North demonstrate, as we will be forced to do, the impracticability of slavery, and drive it effectually from our own " homes and firesides," we might be quite content to know that it had settled a dark, immovable cloud on the negro-huts of the South; but we cannot have it so. Once gone, it is gone entirely and forever. Fostered and warmed by us, it will be the viper of Aesop's fableï¿½it will destroy us.
Our news for to-day and yesterday has been but a repetition of what has been furnished by the eventful days succeeding the taking of Fort Sumter. Every body says, "The silence is ominous." When and how will the storm break?
We are assured of safety. Cincinnati, trusting to Kentucky honor (!) on one side, and Ohio arms on the other, feels gay and secure. Washington is thoroughly fortified, and nothing is to be done but "drive Jeff. Davis back to his hole," with his 10,000 rattlesnakes.
That is easily said; but with only an equal number of less disciplined troops at the Capital, and a States to traverse with men and supplies, whose Governor is either treacherous or imbecile, what think you is the prospect? I might have added, with a President too modest to keep in advance of outrage, and too simple-minded to forestall treachery; for it is said that, after the attack on the Massachusetts troops by Baltimoreans, and the subsequent meeting of fiends and assassins to whom Gov. Hicks discoursed so sweetly about the " accident which brought him to that beautiful city," and procured him " the honor of being called to address its citizens," and delicately alluding to the joys of peace, broadly hinted to them, half mad as they were, to "let no traitor pollute their soil with his tread." Does any one dream that the mob understood by traitor anything but a friend to the government! Yet, after this, Lincoln was "astonished" that Hicks again, and in conjunction with the Mayor, warned him to let no more troops come there, as they could notï¿½i.e. would notï¿½be protected.
But let us not anticipate. All things are working together for good, of which both Mayor and Governor will be unworthy instruments.
The Cincinnati Commercial copies from a Southern paper a rather alarming item, under the head of "Auspicious Omens." It says, "On the day of the capture of Fort Sumter, the new moon showed its silver crescent over the new flag." This might be borne, but see what follows:ï¿½" A game-cock also jumped up on the tomb of Calhoun, clapped his wings, and crowed thrice." It closes with the pertinent question, "Why should not we have our augurs, even as the old Romans had?"
Certainly, no one will doubt the appropriateness of this. But we also have had ours. Says a Pittsburgh paper, " On the day of the raising of the great flag at Camp Curtin, a large and beautiful eagle appeared just above it, sailed slowly around, while the band played ' Hail Columbia,' and then vanished." I have not heard that any one has, within a few days, seen an eagle devour a game chicken, but can easily conceive of its being done. E. A. L.
THE "IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT."
The "irrepressible conflict" going on between the North and the South, and everything they respectively representï¿½between the Civilization of the Free and the Barbarism of the Slave Statesï¿½between Constitutional Freedom and Rebellious Despotismï¿½has lately assumed a most significant attitude. The antagonism existing between the principles represented by the different sections of our country has produced its legitimate fruit; and though this result was foreseen by Abolitionists from the first, the wildest radical among us never dreamed it would come to pass so quickly.
What there is of hope and courage, in the present development of the contest, to inspire the friend of the slave, each must read the signs of the times as best he or she can. For one, I think our Government has taken its position not from any inclination or choice of its own; it would have avoided this, if it couldï¿½have "compromised" again and again; but, thank God! it was not to be. Force of circumstances has compelled her to occupy her present warlike stand. The aroused sentiment of the people of the North and West, never so truly unanimous as now, has obliged our unwilling Government to accept, as a last resort, the alternative of war. And now that it has been fairly inaugurated. I hope it will not cease till the Despotism in our Southern States is forever abolished; till Liberty shall be universally and practically acknowledged the inalienable birthright of every slave in the land.
For the first time in our history, we see the people of the Free States a unit! This wonderful fact is full of meaning, of warning, and is fraught with power unimaginable. What are not twenty millions of freedom-loving men and women, mysteriously bound together, and acting in concert, capable of doing?
Let us see if the Administration, in the face of this almighty fact, and upborne by this almighty power, is disposed to pursue, what experience has always proved to be fatal and wickedï¿½a yielding, temporizing, compromising policy; or, rather, what the wisdom of the world has heretofore demonstrated to be wiseï¿½namely, to act in such matters promptly, vigorously, and energetically to the bitter end. Let the united North and West then, as with one voice, demand that this unanimous feeling of the country be instantly stereo-typed into action by the Government. Let her act the part of an earnest, wide-awake, enlightened nation

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
contending not only for her own preservation, but also for the cause of universal Justice and Humanity. 
However much we may deprecate the taking of the sword, there seems to be no other choice; we are forced to defend ourselves, our liberties, our families and homes, our country, humanity, every thing which renders life desirable. 
Better suffer this terrible alternative now, than to postpone it for the future. This question has got to be met, sooner of later. Better be settled now, that we and our children may not have to bear a far greater wrong hereafter. Yes, if we are to have war, let it come now, and may our victory be thorough, complete, and final! 
Having demonstrated the impossibility of extending the blessings of Freedom over our whole country, while bound in an unholy alliance with Slavery, let us sever the bound, conquer a peace even by force of arms, and subjugating our desperate foe, dictate terms which shall be every way consistent with the humanity and genius of the nineteenth century, and enduringly perpetual. G.A.B.
Boston, April 28, 1861.

MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held on Monday evening, April 2'Jth, 1861, in the hall corner of Joy and Cambridge streets, to form a drill company. Dr. John S. Rock was chosen President, and G.W. Potter, Secretary. The President stated that the object of the meeting was to form a Home Guard. Though denied by the laws of this Commonwealth and of the United States the privilege of forming a part of the militia, we will not take advantage of the fact in this hour of our country's danger, but will show even to our enemies that we have the best wishes for our country's prosperity, and while others go forth to vindicate the right, we stand ready to defend the lives and property of the people of Massachusetts. Remarks were made by Robert Morris, Esq., Lewis Hayden, George T. Downing, M. R. DeMortie, and others. A list was opened, and one hundred and twenty-live enrolled their, names. After the formation of the proper committees, the meeting adjourned and took their first lesson in the drill, which was given by Captain Watkins of the colored military company called the Liberty Guards.
Similar movements are in progress among the colored citizens of New Bedford; also in Providence and New York. The Philadelphia papers announce that a colored man has presented a horse to the Government worth live hundred dollars.

FREEDOM FOR ALL!
MR. GARRISON-By the fourth of July, the necessities of the war, combined with the growing enthusiasm of the people, may require that the Declaration of Independence be reaffirmed, and perhaps more thoroughly applied. Wouldn’t it be well to commence the agitation of that point pretty soon?
Some think it was with a view to kindle such a desire that that day was selected for the assembling of Congress. ABOLITIONIST.

WAR INTELLIGENCE.
The Washington dispatches, dated the 19th, to the New York papers, have the following:-
Never was there a greater delusion than the common belief in the South, that it would he impossible to rouse a sweeping war spirit in the free States. In less than thirty days, 250,000 men will be found in arms from Maine to Kansas, to prove the hope of a divided North a grievous hallucination. Every Northern State will not only furnish the aid asked by the president in his Proclamation, but have a large reserved ready, so as to be able to make a prompt response to a second call, that everybody here expects to become necessary long before Congress meets. There can he no doubt on this subject.
Official information has been received by the President, from which it appears that New York will have 30,000 men in arms by the 1st of June; Pennsylvania, 40,000; Ohio, 35,000; and Indiana, Illinois and Massachusetts each about 25,000, and the other States in proportion.
The employment of this immense force will depend mainly upon the course the border slave States will pursue in reference to the secession issue. As meters are situated now, it is the intention of the Government to use the 75,000 men called into service, together with the regular army, forming an aggregate of about 100,000 men.
Southerners who come up here on business errands are utterly dumbfounded at the overwhelming unanimity of the people, their calm, settled, resolute air, the coolness with which they go about their preparations for a general war, and the visible evidences that they neither expect a compromise nor will put up with one. One Alabama man, who had been looking at things here, sat down in a Market street jobbing house, and shed tears. Another south-western buyer said that he had never dreamed of such a state of things as he saw here. All who come from the South agree that no adequate idea of what is the real nature of the case exists anywhere in that section. They will, however, learn it before a great while, we hope, at the point of the bayonet, since they will obey no other monitor.-U.S. Gazette.

THE SPIRIT OF ILLINOIS. A letter from southern Illinois (Egypt) says:-"Illinois will strike hands with her sisters of the Northeast, and roll up 100,000 them, for you must bear in mind that it is our Abe that is President now. I have just returned from witnessing one of the grandest displays of enthusiasm that ever occurred here. Seven passenger cars and three baggage ears crowded to repletion with soldiers, who will be at Springfield before noon, Remember that we are in southern Illinois."
Large numbers of troops continue to be sent forward from New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania for Washington. This week the Maine troops will commence a forward movement, and will be followed by the contingents from New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, &c. &c., with two additional regiments from Massachusetts.

MINIE RIFLES WANTED. THERE are, at this moment, in the city of New York. 20,000 men ready to go to Washington, or any other point where they may be detailed for duty, and lacking only Minie rifles to make them a most formidable body of soldiers.

WASHIINGTON, April 24. (Times Correspondence.) A deputation of Virginians and Marylanders waited on the President to-day, and demanded the cessation of hostilities until after the session of Congress. The President's answer was prompt and decided. One of the deputation said that 75,000 Marylanders would contest the passage of troops over her soil. The President replied, "he presumed there was room enough on her soil to bury 75,000."

THE REBLES' DAY OF GRACE ABOUT EXPIRING. The Proclamation of President Lincoln, calling upon the rebels to disperse, gave them twenty days to return to their allegiance. This period expires on the 5th of May, after which, as the command will not probably be complied with, the Administration will be in a condition to "let slip the dogs of war."-Traveller.
"WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK." The regiment of Zouaves which Col. Wilson is raising in New York, is composed of the most-pugnacious and reckless of the roughs of that city-men "who fear neither man nor the devil." They have pledged themselves to go through Baltimore. If they do, the Baltimore roughs will have foemen worthy of their steel.
Extract of a letter of the 19th ult, from Memphis, Tenn., to a gentleman in Mississippi:-
"Yesterday, over two thousand persons left for the North, and as many more will leave this evening. This drain will be much felt in this coming conflict. I have no idea of leaving, but will stick it out as long as possible."
There is reason to believe that the destruction of public property at Norfolk and Harper's Ferry was not so complete as it should have been, and that the rebels have secured valuable material at both places. At Norfolk, it is stated that the slow matches intended to blow up the powder magazines had gone out before reaching the train, and the rebels saved the entire store of powder in the Navy Yard, and prevented much of the destruction which the explosion was intended to cause. Fifteen hundred of the best pieces of artillery have been secured. Four large columbiads have been unspiked, and hauled down to the hospital. They are now being mounted. At Harper's Ferry, the citizens saved 4000 improved arms, the machine shops did not take fire, and the machinery was saved.
Another line company of troops from Georgia arrived at Portsmouth on Tuesday. The work of preparing for defence is going on bravely, and the farmers in the country were sending in their slaves free of charge, to work on the fortifications. Thirty-two free colored men living in Norfolk had tendered their service as laborers, and 500 more are ready to come from Petersburg.
<c02>
MOVEMENTS IN NORTH CAROLINA. The Fayetteville arsenal has been peaceably surrendered by the garrison to 2,200 North Carolina troops, under command of General Draughon, who had assembled to take it, if necessary, by force. The arms and munitions taken were 37,000 stand of arms, 6,000 pistols, 2,000 kegs of powder, and any quantity of cannon balls and shells. With this armament, says the Raleigh Register, the Old North State is ready to engage in the contest either to preserve her liberties on her own soil, or to go to the aid of any of her Southern sisters who may need it.
ANOTHER SEIZURE. The screw steamer J. Jerome, running between this city and Philadelphia, was detained here this morning, and very properly, for she can be of great service to us, as she is strongly built, and could easily mount two guns.-Alexandria Sentinel, 23d.
It is stated that the ships William, from Bath, and Richmond, from Richmond, Me., loaded with ship timber, have been seized at Rappahannock, Va. The crews were imprisoned, and required to take the oaths of allegiance to the Southern Confederacy.
Schooner West Wind, from Wilmington, N. C., reports the seizure of the steamer Uncle Ben. Her crew were imprisoned, charged with being Federal spies. The Secessionists have sunk several vessels in New Inlet, blocking up the channel.
The people of Helena, Arkansas, seized the steamer Mars, a Cincinnati packet, on Friday, and took from her 400 bbls, of molasses, and a large quantity of sugar, rosin and turpentine, all for Cincinnati. The boat was tied up, there being cannon opposite her. The Helena folks say the Cincinnati people can have the boat when they can take it, and not till then.
The military authorities of Lynchburg, Va., by order of Gov. Letcher, have seized 60,000 pounds of powder, belonging to the Hazard Powder Company, and deposited it in the two magazines there.
WILMINGTON, N. C., April 29. The Journal of the 23d states that the branch Mint in Charlotte was taken possession of on Saturday, under orders from Gov. Ellis.
Troops are continually passing through Wilmington from South Carolina and Georgia, for Richmond, and General Bonham and staff had arrived there. Col. Gregg's Regiment and Gen. McGowan's Brigade had volunteered.
Governor Ellis has called for 30,000 volunteers additional to the regular militia, and all organized corps are commanded to be in readiness at an hour's notice.
The Southern rebels have seized a large number of Northern steamers and sailing vessels. Three of the steamers belonging to Cromwell & Co., of New York, have been seized-one at Wilmington, and two at Baltimore. The entire line of steamers plying between New Orleans and Galveston, owned by Charles Morgan, of New York, have also fallen into the hands of the secessionists. There are twelve of them. Another has been seized at Apalachicola, and a second at New Orleans. It will thus be seen that the rebels are already in possession of a formidable marine.
New York, April 27th. The agents of the steamer Nashville have been advised that that steamer has been taken at Charleston, and it is reported that Lieut. Morden, formerly of the Harriet Lane, has been appointed to her command, intending to proceed to sea to intercept the next California steamer. It is positively stated that ho has letters of marque from Jeff. Davis.
A special dispatch to the Herald from Philadelphia, states that the schooner John Roach has been seized on the James River, and converted into a war vessel by the secessionists.
Among the passengers going North in to-night's train, are five Maine timber men, ordered out of Virginia. They report that three schooners, Gen. Knox, Victory, and Georgia, of Maine, were seized in Pa-kumpka River, Va. Camion were placed aboard the Gen. Knox, and the secession flag hoisted. The Maine men were ordered to leave by Col. Lee on Saturday, and placed under guard. They obtained a pass from Gov. Letcher out of the Suite. They were interrupted frequently, being intercepted by troops at Baltimore.
The State authorities at Richmond have seized five hundred army revolvers, belonging to Williams, Peters & Co.
The schooner Annie J. Russell, from Portland, Ct., and loaded with wheat at Richmond, for some port in Massachusetts, has been seized in the Appomattox.
The Baltimore authorities on Monday, 22d ult., seized four car loads of military stores, clothing, tents, and other army equipments, sufficient, it is supposed, for the accommodation of about one thousand men belonging to the Federal Government. Four pieces of cannon, with their carriages, were among the lot.
SEIZURE IN SOUTHERN PORTS. An agent of a responsible house in New York, just arrived from Wilmington, N. C., reports that all the vessels in that port had been seized, and large numbers of troops were moving North.
Savannah dates of the 23d ult, state that there are three vessels there ready fitted waiting for privateer commissions, which would be received in a few days. They will be commanded by skillful seamen, and many others will sail under the charge of rebel Yankees.
OUTRAGES ON OYSTERMEN BY SECESSIONISTS IS VIRGINIA. The Sunshine and Commerce, two oyster schooners from Staten Island, were fired into from batteries erected on the bank of the Yulee river, on Monday night the 21d inst., and one of them, the Sunshine, was sunk. Her crew was picked up by the Commerce, when her captain was found to be badly hurt. The crew of another vessel, the Alice Ellis, was obliged to leave their vessel, and flee on board the Commerce. Staten Island has over a million of dollars invested in the oyster business, and owns thousands of dollars worth of oysters planted in the rivers of Virginia, and paid for-so the rebels have both the oysters and the money of Northern men. We presume some of our Fair Haven neighbors may be similarly situated.-New Haven Palladiam.
New York, April 29. Schooner B. D. Pitts, from Charleston, brings 21 passengers, including the crew of the steamer Nashville, and James Tracy, a native of Ireland, wife and five children.
Tracy had declared his intention to become a citizen, and had a small farm, which was confiscated because he refused to tight against the flag which he had sworn to protect. He was seized and tied to a fence with his hands tied over his head, and given 500 lashes. His wife was kicked and otherwise ill-used. Tracy served in the Mexican war under Gen. Scott. 
TIMBER CUTTERS DRIVES FROM VIRGINA. On Saturday, a dozen men from Maine who have for several years been employed in cutting white oak ship timber for parties at the North, on the Chickahominy river, in Virginia, arrived in this city, having left rather than take an oath to support the Confederate Government. They at first got on board the schooner Conway, of Rockland, Maine, but that was stopped, and they got out of the neighborhood with a mule team, and finally reached Norfolk. From thence they came to Baltimore. Mr. George W. Thompson, one of the company, and the employer of the others, loses several thousand dollars by this hasty departure from the State.-Boston Journal.
A meeting was held in Philadelphia, on Wednesday last, of those who had been expelled from Baltimore on account of their Union sentiments. One was driven from his home, and forbidden to return under penalty of death; be said his wife and five other persons were obliged to sleep two nights in an open boat on the water; another was exiled because he refused to join a secession company; he brought away nothing but the clothes on his back. A man in the room was the last in South Baltimore to pull down his flag; he left his wife and eight children in Baltimore without means of support.
Two boats were picked up at sea by the De Sota, off Dividing Creek, Va., Thursday, April 25th, containing the captain and most of the crew of the schooner T. O. Thompson, wrecked on Bluff Point, Va., April 9th. They say they were notified to leave within two hours, or take the oath to fight for the South. They escaped in open boats, and were only out a few hours when discovered by Captain Johnson. Two of their men are in jail at Lancaster, Va., and wore told that they should be starved to death, unless they took the oath to fight for the South. One of them is a British subject, belonging to Nova Scotia.
FUGITIVES FROM A TRAITOR STATE. A gentleman, a member of one of the oldest families in the county- a good Democrat, left Wilmington, N. C., on Monday last, with his family. Between Weldon and Portsmouth, a young man was exhibiting pieces of bomb shells from Fort Sumter, making great boasts of his fighting at that place. He came to our Chester county friend, and offered him a splint from the shattered flag-staff of Fort Sumter. On refusing it, there were strong demonstrations of a mob, and the cry of "a Black Republican in the cars." Several pistols were drawn, and our friend escaped by having his wife with him, and by knowing the family of the excited man, who was finally appeased.
At Weldon, the cry of "Black Republican" was raised against a young man on the cars, and he was taken out by a mob, and what became of him was not known to those on the cars. He was probably murdered. All the passengers at Weldon had their trunks searched for treasonable correspondence.
NORTHERN MEN DRIVEN OUT OF VIRIGINIA. A well known lawyer of Boston, formerly a member of the Governor's Council, was forced to leave Richmond very hurriedly last week, having received several pressing calls from vigilance committees. 
Robert Murray arrived in Waltham, Wednesday last He was a student at the College in Alexandria, Va., and among those warned to leave.
<c03>
SLAVES INTERESTED. A correspondent of the Tribune writes from Pensacola, Fla., that the slaves there display the most intense anxiety on the subject of the present war, and hope or fear all manner of results to themselves. More than one case of hopeless insanity, growing out of the war excitement, has occurred in that place. A few weeks ago, seven slaves ran away from the town of Milton, Fla., to join Lieut. Slemmer, and help defend Fort Pickens. They endured incredible hardships, forded bogs, bayous, and swamps, endured hunger through fear of discovery, and finally reached Fort Pickens safely. Lieut. Slemmer thought it his duty to refuse to receive them, returned them in irons to the Navy Yard, and when they were sent home they were whipped unmercifully "to frighten the rest."
The slaves of Maryland are naturally greatly, excited by the tumult around them, and are emigrating by whole families and in great numbers into Pennsylvania. It is estimated that not less than 500 have escaped within a few days past. Nothing is more likely to bring the slaveholders to a realizing sense of the nature and tendency of their rebellion than such facts as these. The sudden disappearance of 500 pieces of property, valued at half a million of dollars, is a phenomenon calculated to strike even a Plug-Ugly with dismay, especially as it is likely to be followed by much more extensive experiences of the same sort.- New York Tribune.
HARRISBURG, April 26. It is reported that an attack was made by Marylanders on Hanover Village, York county, on Tuesday last, occasioned by a great stampede of negroes. Reliable accounts say that whole families are crossing into Adams, York, and Franklin counties in this State. A report places the total loss of slaves by Maryland since the troubles began at five hundred. Great fears are entertained in the border counties of Maryland of the departure of the entire slave population.
SLAVES ESCAPING. The Cincinnati Gazette says: "At Memphis, on Sunday, seven negroes were arrested while suspiciously consulting together in the outskirts of that city. On the day previous, a furious negro woman was taken into custody while flourishing a pistol, and declaring that she was a 'Black Republican.' These are but specimens of more than twenty similar facts related in our Southern exchanges.'"
ANOTHER BALTIMORE MARTYR. Private S. H. Needham, who was so terribly wounded in the head at Baltimore, died there on Saturday. He leaves a wile and parents and brothers at Lawrence. A Baltimore dispatch says:-" He was struck on the back of the head with paving stones at the riot, having his skull fractured. He has spoken but a single word since then, which was in answer to a question whether he had a family, when he said ' No.' It is believed he did not comprehend the question, as it is stated he has a wife. His skull was trepanned, and every possible attention paid to him by the medical faculty and sisters of charity.
STILL ANOTHER. George Leienring, one of the members of General Small's Brigade, died in Philadelphia on the 23d ult., from the effects of injuries received in the Baltimore riot. The unfortunate man was stabbed in both sides.
In Kentucky, Thomas H. Clay, a son of Henry Clay, has flatly denounced rebellion. In a letter addressed to a citizen of Fayette county, he reviews the hasty action of the Confederated States, and shows that Kentucky has one hundred millions in slave property which would be destroyed by secession and the establishment of a foreign border on the North. He advises a conference of the Border States for the purpose of combining to maintain a neutrality.
WASHINGTON, April 26. The 8th Regiment, from Massachusetts, and the Rhode Island troops arrived to-day. The New York 7th Regiment arrived yesterday. The New York 71st Regiment, and six companies of the Massachusetts 5th Regiment, are at Annapolis Junction, in good condition and fine spirits. None of the Massachusetts troops are in the Hospital.
The Seventh New York regiment gave a splendid collation to the Eighth Massachusetts regiment at its own expense, §800. 
The Eighth Massachusetts regiment is quartered in the rotunda of the Capitol, and the Fifth in the Treasury building.
In the rotunda of the Capitol, a day or two since, a stack of muskets accidentally fell, and three of the guns discharged. A ball passed through the right foot of Moses S. Herrick, of the Beverly company, His foot was amputated. A subscription of §1000 was nobly and generously made up for him by the New York Seventh.
Capt. Clark, of the Sixth Massachusetts regiment, received a flesh wound in the arm from a musket discharged by a private who fell while drilling.
Several members of the Fifth and Eighth Mass, regiments have been injured by revolvers accidentally discharged, and sent home.
President Lincoln has issued another proclamation, in which he announces that the ports of Virginia and North Carolina will be blockaded. He adds:
"And I hereby proclaim and declare, that if any person, under the pretended authority of the said States, or under any other pretence, shall molest a vessel of the United States, or the persons or cargo on board of her, such person will be held amenable to the laws of the United States for the prevention and punishment of piracy." 
NEW ORLEANS, April 20. The city presents a: most warlike and military appearance. The streets are crowded with volunteers, and the beat of the drum and the heavy tramp of armed men are heard day and night.
BUCHANAN’S SUBSCRIPTION §5000. It is stated that Ex-President Buchanan has subscribed the sum of §5000 for the equipment of volunteers at Lancaster.
RICHMOND, April 23. Six hundred troops from South Carolina arrived here, and were received with enthusiastic cheering. Some seven thousand are expected soon. 
There will be 25,000 volunteers at Richmond by the close of the week.
NEW YORK, April 28. The Virginia ordinance of secession is published. It repeals her ratification of the Federal Constitution, and affects to resume for her all for rights and powers as a free and independent State. The ordinance is to take effect when ratified by a majority of the votes of the people of the State, on the fourth Tuesday in May.
A PATRIOTIC AND THRILLING SCENE. Old Columbia College, in New York, was last week the scene of a remarkable demonstration, a prominent participant in which was Major Anderson. That officer had been invited by the President, faculty and students to raise the American flag on the staff that had just been created in the College grounds. After Maj. Anderson took the halyards, and pulled the stars and stripes to the top of the staff which was done amid deafening cheers, the President called for the "Star Spangled Banner," and asked the ladies, who were present in great numbers, to join in the chorus, which they did with great enthusiasm. Anderson also joined in, and waved his cap along with the students, as they sang, "Oh long may it wave!" The whole scene is described as one that sent the blood coursing through the veins of every one who beheld it.
The New York Board of Aldermen have appropriated §500 to purchase a gold snuff-box, to be presented to Major Anderson, and §1,000 to procure a full-length portrait of that officer, to be hung in the Governor's room.
SPIRITED LANGUAGE OF GEN. BUTLER. When Gen. Butler landed at Annapolis, the authorities protested against it. He replied,-" Sir: We come here not as citizens of Massachusetts, but as citizens and soldiers of the United Suites, with no intention to invade any State, but to protect the Capital of our common country from invasion. We shall give no cause of offence, but there must be no fugitive shots or stray brickbats on the way."
ARRESTS FOR TREASON. On affidavits laid before United States Commissioner Morton, warrants were issued against Dr. Robert Sabo and Daniel Fish, alias Philip Fasley, for treason. The charge against Sabo is that of enlisting troops, and Fish for furnishing firearms and munitions of war to the Southern Confederacy. The prisoners were brought before the Commissioner and committed for examination.-N. Y. Express.
PHILDELPHIA, April 28. C. J. Ingersoll has invited ex-Presidents Buchanan, Pierce, Fillmore, Tyler, and Van Buren, to become arbitrators to settle the differences between the North and the South. There is little expectation here of any good resulting from it.
A dispatch to-day says that prominent men of the Border States have asked a cessation of hostilities, with the view to a plan of compromise. The answer of the Government should be-" No negotiation with traitors. Unconditional submission or the gibbet.' -Boston Journal.
The Newburyport Herald gays Gen. Cushing has tendered his services to the Governor, to act in any capacity where he may be needed. He is not to be trusted.
It would be well for Governor Andrew to be a little cautious how he places confidence in well-known. Secessionists. Put none but true men on guard. Massachusetts wants no traitors to command her troops.-Boston Herald.
A slave in Lexington, Va., has voluntarily commenced taking up a subscription among his colored friends in that place for the relief of the families of the soldiers who have gone to fight the Northern abolitionists. When last heard of, he had raised the sum of $100. (What an absurdity!)
<c04>
A VIRIGINIA OPINION. The Richmond (Va.) Despatch says:
"The proceedings of the brutal mobs in Philadelphia, New York, &c., are of course what might be expected from those severs into which the whole world has poured superfluous filth and scum. The action of these church-burning, flour-plundering, swinish groundlings, has no terror for any but their Northern masters, the cowardly conservatives, or conservative cowards, who succumbed at the first onset of their white slaves.* * *
With some exceptions, the wealthy classes of Northern cities are reptiles, who have emerged from the same Stygian mud in which the more demonstrative and unclean mob are now wallowing, and in no wise differ from them, except in their wealth, which has no power to confer elevated sentiments or purity of character."
WANTED-5000 Washerwomen, with broomsticks, to whip back Gov. Sprague's regiment from Rhode Island, lately offered to Lincoln.
CODFISH & INGUNS.
The above advertisement is from an Augusta (Geo.) paper. That is the way the Georgians propose to fight. We had heard their valor doubted, but did not suppose they would call on the women to begin the fighting for them.-Prov. Journal.
The following was telegraphed from Richmond, Va., to Nashville, Term., April 22d:- 
To J. E. Brennan:
Virginia blazing with preparations-intense excitement-no arms to spare. New York 7th Regiment intercepted at Annapolis, cut up and routed by Marylanders. T. M. BRENNAN.
By such stuff as this, Tennessee is duped into revolution.
THE PRESIDENT TO FOLLOW THE EMAMPLE OF GENERAL SCOTT. One of the Mobile papers publishes the following, which it considers as reliable:- "Lincoln will instantly resign, in obedience to Gen-Scott's example."
SOUTHERN CHIVALRY On the occasion of the presentation, on Friday last, of a sword to Major Anderson, by the citizens of Taunton, Mass., he spoke of the conduct of the chivalry at the bombardment of Fort Sumter in the following terms:-
"It is one of the most painful recollections of that event, that when our barracks were on fire, and the men were compelled to cover their faces with wet handkerchiefs, arid he with their faces upon the ground to avoid suffocation, instead of sending a white flag, with assistance to extinguish the flames, then threatening us with destruction, they rapidly increased their fire upon us from every battery, in total disregard of every feeling of humanity."
The N. Y. Tribune says, on a similar topic,-
"The vaunted bravery of the secession chivalry has thus far had but two opportunities to show itself. At the first, 7000 confederate troops, with nineteen batteries, mounting more and far heavier guns than silenced the Malakoff, some of them, too, riffled cannon, dared hot attack the 71 soldiers of Sumter until they knew that they were exhausted by famine, and within three days of absolute starvation. At the second, an armed secession mob of many thousands dared not attack the whole of a Massachusetts regiment, but prudently waited until the last company was cut off from their comrades."
The Virginia Secessionists congregated in Richmond had a great rejoicing over the fall of Fort Sumter, Sunday evening, 21st ult. They claim to have had three thousand in procession, and hoisted the Jeff. Davis flag, fired a hundred guns, and had any amount of exultant speeches. On motion of John M. Patton, they enthusiastically
"Resolved, That we rejoice with high, exultant, heartfelt joy at the triumph of the Southern Confederacy over the accursed Government at Washington in the capture of Fort Sumter." 
Says the Richmond Enquirer,-''Many of the houses were brilliantly illuminated from attic to cellar; flags of the Southern Confederacy were abundantly displayed from roofs and windows; the streets blazed with bonfires; the sky lighted with showers of pyrotechnics; and, until midnight, crowd after crowd found speakers to address them from balconies and street-corners."
FREDERICKSBURG, Md., April 27. A dozen American flags were raised in Baltimore on Friday. The Chief of Police ordered all Hags to be taken down during the session of the General Assembly. In some instances there were refusals, and arrests were made. At five o'clock yesterday, no flags were flying, either Southern or Federal.
Northwestern Maryland is strong for the Union. If the State secedes, Washington, Alleghany, Federal and Carroll counties will secede from the State.
The strength in the city is about equally divided. Of four hundred enrolled and armed, three hundred and fifty are for Union.
The Union men have control of barrack and arms.
FREDERICK, Md., April 28. Senator Mason, of Virginia, is a guest of Mr. Kunkel, late member of Congress. He was serenaded last night, and responded in a speech. He said he could not with propriety speak of Maryland politics; he could speak only for Virginia. He could say, however, that a reconstruction of the Union was an impossibility. Virginia sympathized with Maryland, and he intimated that Virginia was disposed to exhibit it practically. 
Mr. Kimball said the North denied the right of Christian fellowship to the South, and there was no social or political sympathy between the people of the two sections.
A courier arrived from Virginia yesterday, communicating the fact that she has joined the Southern Confederacy.
NOT ALL LOWER-CLASS IN BALTIMORE. The New York Tribune says:-"A lady who was living in Baltimore at the time of the treacherous slaughter of the Massachusetts men in her streets, states that gentlemen of wealth and position who came in from the riot to dinner, openly boasted of the money they had scattered among the mob to stimulate them to attack and kill the defenders of their country. If those gentlemen should find the contest a losing business in the end, who can pity them?"
Influential men in Washington have petitioned the President for the appointment of Cassius M. Clay as a Major General in the army of the United States. The proposition meets with no opposition from the President, and General Scott is said to be similarly inclined. An effort is making to obtain a similar appointment for ex-Governor Banks.
The Hon. John Sherman, United States Senator from Ohio, is serving as a private in one of the Ohio companies now encamped at Lancaster, Pa.
Hon. John Bell and about a dozen other "Union men," of Tennessee, have issued an address to the people of the State, approving the refusal of the Governor to respond to the federal requisition for troops.
THROUGH BALTIMORE. In connection with Geo. Law's letter to President Lincoln, advising the clearance of a path through Baltimore at all hazards, it is a significant fact that that gentleman presented Wilson's "Fighting Zouaves" with a pair of revolvers each. It is the unanimous wish of that regiment- expressed on repeated occasions-to force a passage through the Monumental city. The same desire is expressed by the Fire Department Zouaves, and, in fact, is universally cherished by the soldiers of New York. The petition to the President, urging that the Baltimore route be held by the Government at any cost, is receiving numerous signatures of influential citizens throughout the city. Col. Learned is organizing a "Pathfinders' Association," the avowed object of which is to cleave a road to the Capital through Baltimore. "Our route is through Baltimore," is printed in large letters at the foot of the poster, stuck about town, asking for recruits for the Fifth Regiment of New York Volunteers.-N.Y. Journal of Commerce.
The Rev. John Piermont, of Medford, has tendered his services to Gov. Andrew as a chaplain to one of the Massachusetts regiments. This veteran clergyman, in his letter, says:-" If, sir, this my proffer of service is accepted by your Excellency, I have only one Stipulation to make in connection with it, namely, this-that, on our way to Washington, we are not to go around Baltimore."
BALTIMORE “BAY STATE AVENUE.” One of the conductors of the New Jersey Railroad this morning, urging his military passengers to "hurry up" the opening of the way through Baltimore, said, " Make haste, or the Massachusetts boys will do it, and christen the route 'Bay State Avenue.' "-N.Y. Post.
A CATHOLIC PRIEST ON THE WAR. Rev. B. F. Lynden preached a "war sermon" to his church on Broadway, South Boston, Sunday, instructing his congregation that it was the duty of the Catholics to drop all party issues and to stand by the flag of their adopted country, and, if necessary, to forsake home and friends, and fight nobly for the stars and stripes of the United States of North America.
A letter from New Orleans says, "Outwardly there appears to be a general feeling of opposition to opening the African slave trade. But the probability is, that, should the Border States remain in the Union, refusing to join their fortunes with ours, the trade would be opened in some form or other, placing restrictions upon the mode of packing and shipping the cargo. It is quite evident that only a question of expediency has prevented the declaration of its legality before now. All the swamp lands pertaining to the Federal Government in the State are declared the property of the State, and, steps have been taken to dispose of them in quantities to suit, for the benefit of the State coffers."
<c05>
NEW VERSION OF THE BOMBARDMENT OF FORT SUMTER. A soldier who escaped from Charleston, states that he served at the guns during the fight at Fort Moultrie, and that nearly every shot from Fort Sumter killed somebody. Between three and four hundred were killed and a large number wounded at Fort Moultrie during the siege. The killed were collected in a mass, and interred at night in Potter's Field. Many were also killed in dwellings outside the Fort. The soldiers were threatened with death if they disclosed the facts about the killed. People are constantly inquiring for their friends, and are assured they are at Sullivan's Island.
Another soldier who was at Morris Island, says that 150 were killed there, and 40 at Sullivan's Island. He makes the same statement relative to the dead being buried at night in Potter's Field; he also states that the negroes only want their leaders to give the word, when the slaughter would be terrible.
The following is short and sweet. We find it in a Western exchange:-
"WASHINGTON, April 20,1861.
Hon. John J. Crittenden: I have not changed. I have not thought of changing. Always a Union man.
WINFIELD SCOTT."
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for May, published by Ticknor and Fields, is a splendid number. The opening paper is the beginning of Mrs. Stowe's new novel, "Agnes of Sorrento," which, if we may judge by the present chapter, promises to be her best work. The style is superior in richness, melody and pliancy to anything she has previously written; the characters are indicated with masterly closeness of representation; and the descriptions of Italian scenery are deliciously fresh and true.
"Rest and Motion" is an essay so funnily like Emerson in style, that its excellent matter and thought may not at first be appreciated. "The Prairie State," and "The Niger and its Explorers," are full of valuable information. The English Country Parson, whose "Recreations" are now so popular, supplies a thoughtful article "Concerning Future Years." Miss Martineau contributes a deeply interesting paper, entitled, "Lights of the English "Lake District," containing life-like sketches of Wordsworth, Coleridge, Hartley Coleridge, Southey, Prof. Wilson, and De Quincy, in connection with the beautiful scenery among which they dwelt. The two poems of the number are "Pomegranate Flowers," by Miss Prescott, and "Brother Jonathan's Lament for Sister Caroline," by Holmes. We published the latter in our paper of yesterday, and our readers have already had an opportunity to enjoy its patriotic sentiment and ringing verse.
There is only one story in the number, " Pink and Blue," and a most charming and original love story it is. The? late publication of Mrs. Piozzi's diary and correspondence affords the subject of a delightful literary article, in which some original memorials of that lady, not in the possession of Hayward are drawn upon with good effect to shed additional illustration on her character and times. Altogether, the May Atlantic is one of the most attractive numbers yet issued. -Boston Transcript.
SIDNEY. Australia advices report the massacre of twenty-six of the crew of the American whaler Superior by the natives of Solomon's Island.

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by E. H. Heywood.
Leominster, $12.00.
Collections by A. T. Foss.
Lowell, 7.45; Rochester, N. H., 83e; Mrs. J. H. Ela, I Collections by Sallie Holley.
Providence, R. I., 6.68; Anthony Village, 5.30; Salem, Mass., 10; Warren, do. 3.06; Globe Village, 5.60; Tatnick, 1; North Bridgewater, 4.78; Milford, 10; Hopedale,15.00; Mr. and Mrs. E.D. Draper, 35; Bellingham,65c; Eliab Wight, 3; Barre, 4.50-$104.57
Donations.
J. H. Stephenson, 10; H. Lambert, 1;.T. Lombard, Jr., 1; Warren Low, 5; Franklin Andrews, 1; Otis G. Cheever, S; Susan Cheever, 2; Charles Haves, 5Ue.
Pledge, Jan., 1861.
Abner Belcher, 5.00
To Redeem. Pledge.
Mary May, 25.00
Bequest of the late John Rogers, 100.OO
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. Boston, May 2, 1861.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Marlboro, (Moss.) all day and evening, Sunday, May 5.
Also, at Weymouth Landing, May 12.
Subject of the evening lectures will be-The Star-spangled Banner as the symbol of liberty.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES’ MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases. 
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23-3m.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M.D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdon and 10 Allston street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
WANTED-By a young man, 22 years of ago, a situation as Book-keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis. Understands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D. W. D., Box 2702, P. 0. 3t April 12-
COPIES OF WENDELL PHILLIPS'S MUSIC HALL SPEECH ON THE WAR may be obtained at Room No. 8, HAYTIAN BUREAU OF WMIGRATION, Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, Boston.

OBITUARY.
DIED, in the Penitentiary at Frankfort, Ky., March 4, ELILIAH ANDERSON, of Cleveland, Ohio, aged 51 years and 9 months.
The deceased was a very peculiar victim of the hatred and persecution from which one of his class see little promise of escape.
He was born in Buckingham Co., Va., of free parents, who, being anxious to lessen their disabilities, removed to Ohio, which State became his homo from youth. Here he became an efficient, though unpretending worker in behalf of the bondman, so exciting the animosity of the oppressor, that plans were set which but too well succeeded in putting him in their power. In December, 1856, a decoy letter called him from Cleveland. Ohio, to Madison, Indiana. At Cincinnati, he embarked on a steamer for the latter city, but upon its arrival at Carrolton, Ky., officers of the latter State, who had been wickedly telegraphed to of his being a passenger, boarded the boat, and made him their prisoner. Upon three indictments which were immediately brought against him, he had three trials, and was acquitted. A fourth indictment caused his removal to another county, when a failure to commit him there, upon two trials, but served to exasperate his enemies to renewed persecution. Upon another indictment, which they now hastened to find, his case was referred to the Circuit Court, to be held in the following June, to which, he was held to bail in the exorbitant sum of two thousand dollars. Real estate to this value was offered and refused; and as the strenuous efforts which were made by his family and friends in various parts of the country were unavailing to raise the money, he had to remain a prisoner to that trial. The Court sat in June, 1837, and ho was convicted of having violated the laws of the State in which his never having been made it impossible for him to have been guilty. He was sentenced to eight years' and eight months' imprisonment. Untiringly his family and friends sought his reprieve, collecting thereto efficient testimony, but in the strength of the prejudice against him, they found it impossible to get a transcript of the evidence read on his trial, the judge and lawyers declaring they had forgotten it, and that no record was kept of it.
Of his sentence, five years remained to be fulfilled, when the decree of Him, whose ways are inscrutable, went forth, making him one of that company of martyrs who suffered and died for 'Humanity's sake. It was a sudden termination, causing an inquest with a verdict of "Death from heart disease." With much difficulty, him remains were procured by his family, when the melancholy satisfaction was given them of burying him with their dead.
In his death, a widowed and venerable mother, an affectionate wife, a loving daughter, and a numerous circle of relatives and acquaintances, have lost one whom place can never be filled, however penitent may be those to whose persecution the loss is due, but, bowing in submission to the afflictive dispensation, they hare comfort in the assurance that his death is one of life. W. S. W.
Cincinnati, April 8, 1861.
<c06>
PRICES
-AT-
HEBBARD'S,
THE NO. OF DAYS
365 Washington Street
IN THE YEAR.
CTS.
Grey Goods, - - - - 12 1-2
Figured Grey Goods, - 25
Striped and Figured Grey Goods, - - 25
Checked Mohairs, - - - 25
Good Prink, - - - - 7 and 8
Best American Prints, - - - 10
Best English, " - - - 11
Beat yard wide " - - - 17
Best French " - - - 25
Best Delaines, - - - - 17
All wool Delaines, (plain,) - - 25]
Beat all wool Delaines, - - - 33
Organdie and Cambric Muslins, from - 8 to 50
Tidies; all styles, from - - 121-2 to 50
Curtain Muslins, from - - 25 to 37 1-2
Best Cambrics, - - - - 6 1-4
Best Sarsnet Cambrics, - - - 8
Beat Silecia - - - - 10
4-4 Cotton, - - - - 10
5-4 " - - - - 121-3
7-8 " - - - - 8
Best Hoop Skirts, (Mrs. Sherman's make,) warranted not to get out of order, from 75 cts, upwards.
Cashmere Scarfs, from $1 to $4.
Linen Bosom, - - - 12 1-2 to 30
Linen Collars and Cuffs, - - - 10
Linen Sets, - - - - 25
Best Linen Gent's Hdkfs., - - 25
Best Linen Ladies' Hdkfs - - - 12 1-3
Hemstitched " " - - - 17
Ribbons, from 3 to 37 1-2 cts. per yard. Hosiery, Gloves, Embroideries, White Goods and Domestics, at Agents' prices.
Store acknowledged to be the best lighted, the most attractive and cozy in the city. 
Boston, April 19.

P. S.
PERUVAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
THY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis.

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) Term of the Institution wall commence on Wednesday, May 1, and continue Ten Weeks. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely chiefly upon the patronage of the more advanced and liberal portion of the public for support.
For particulars, send for Circular to the address of
WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principals
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., March 30, 1861. 4w

WEST NEWTON
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL
THE summer Quarter begins Wednesday, 24th instant. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN
April 23. 1w West Newton, Mass. 

The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine,
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)

TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the-four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 700
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood-and on" Review, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The pries in Great Britain of the five Periodicals above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT &c CO.,'
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m

THE Herald of Progress,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, EDITOR
ASSISTED BY AN ASSOCIATION OF ABLE WRITERS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
COSMOPOLITAN in every department of knowledge's its crystallized thoughts are intended to furnish a beacon light for the future, Its columns are- open it to communications upon every subject. Its work is, to elevate the mind, and to add to man's material comforts Particular attention is given to the department of Health, with new and progressed methods of treating disease, by the Editor. Devoted to no sect, belonging to no party, not given to ONE IDEA, it presents itself to a liberal minded community, and asks their co-operation.
The Herald of Progress is published every Saturday, on a double folio of eight pages, for two dollars per annum, or one dollar for six months, in advance. Specimen copies forwarded gratis. Address, A. J. DAVIS & CO., 274 Canal street, New York. April 10.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents, of Howe, Wheeler A Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various pa- tents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington: street.
GEO. E. LENONARD, Agent. Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice, Boston, Jan. 18, 1861 3m.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by ANY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
NO SECT IN HEAVEN.
FROM AN ENGLISH POEM.
Talking of sects till late one eve,
Of the various doctrines the saints believe,
That night I stood in a troubled dream,
By the side of a darkly flowing stream,
And a "Churchman" down to the river came:
When I heard a strange voice call his name,
"Good father, stop; when you cross this tide,
You must leave your robes on the other side."
But the aged father did not mind,
And his long gown floated out behind,
As down to the stream his way he took,
His pale hands clasping a gilt-edged book.
"I'm bound for heaven, and when I'm there,
I shall want my book of Common Prayer;
And though I put on a starry crown,
I should feel quite lost without my gown."
Then he fixed his eyes on the shining track,
But his gown was heavy, and held him back,
And the poor old father tried in vain
A single step in the flood to gain.
I saw him again on the other side,
But his silk gown floated on the tide:
And no one asked in that blissful spot,
Whether he belonged to "the church" or not.
Then down to the river a “Quaker" strayed,
His dress of a sober hue was made;
"My coat and hat must be all of gray,
I cannot go any other way."
Then he buttoned his coat straight up to his chin,
And Staidly, solemnly, waded in;
And his broad-brimmed hat he pulled down tight
Over his forehead, so cold and white.
But a strong wind carried away his hat;
A moment he silently sighed over that,
And then, as has gazed on the farther shore,
The coat slipped off, and was seen no more.
As he entered heaven, his suit of gray
Went silently sailing—away—away,
And none of the angels questioned him
About the width of his beaver's brim.
Next came Dr. Watts with a bundle of psalms,
Tied nicely up in his aged arms,
And hymns as many, a very wise thing,
That the people in heaven "all round" might sing.
But I thought that he heaved an anxious sigh,
As he saw that the river ran broad and high,
And looked rather surprised as, one by one,
The Psalms and Hymns in the wave went down.
And after him, with his MSS.,
Came Wesley, the pattern of godliness;
But he cried, "Dear me, what shall I do?
The water has soaked them through and through."
And there on the river, far and wide,
Away they went down the swollen tide;
And the saint, astonished, passed through alone,
Without his manuscripts, up to the throne.
Then gravely walking, two saints by name,
Down to the stream together came;
But as they stopped at the river's brink,
I saw one saint from the other shrink.
"Sprinkled or plunged, may I ask you, friend,
How you attained to life's great end?"
"Thus, with a few drops on my brow,
But I have been dipped, as you'll see me now."
"And I really think it will hardly do,
As I'm 'close communion,' to cross with you;
You're bound, I know, to the realms of bliss,
But you must go that way, and I'll go this."
Then straightway plunging with all his might,
Away to the left—his friend to the right,
Apart they went from this world of sin,
But at last together they entered in.
And now, when the river was rolling on,
A Presbyterian church went down;
Of women there seemed an innumerable throng,
But the men I could count as they passed along.
And, concerning the road, they could never agree,
The old or the new way, which it could be,
Nor ever a moment paused to think
That both would lead to the river's brink.
And a sound of murmuring, long and loud,
Came ever up from the moving crowd,
"You're in the old way, and I'm in the new,
That is the false, and this is the true,"—
Or, "I'm in the old way, and you're in the new,
That is the false, and this is the true."
But the brethren only seemed to speak,
Modest the sisters walked, and meek,
And if ever one of them chanced to say
What troubles she met with on the way,
How she longed to pass to the other side,
Nor feared to cross over the swelling tide,
A voice arose from the brethren then:
"Let us one speak but the 'holy men';
For have ye not heard the words of Paul,
Oh, let the women keep silence all?"
I watched them long in my curious dream,
Till they stood by the borders of the stream,
Then, just as I thought the two ways met,
But all the brethren were talking yet,
And would talk on, till the heaving tide
Carried them over, side by side;
Side by side for the way was one,
The toilsome journey of life was done;
And all who in Christ the Savior died,
Came out alike on the other side,
No forms, or crosses, or books had they,
No gowns of silk, or suits of gray,
No creeds to guide them, or MSS.,
For all had put on Christ's righteousness.

LINES,
Addressed to his wife, by Rev. SAMUEL WILLARD, of Deerfield, in 1828, not many years after the loss of his sight.
Partner of my hopes and fears,
Whose love my pensive spirit cheers
Amid surrounding ills:
To see thee happy is my joy;
To make the happy the employ
which languor never chills.
Long may we wear that lenient chain
Which gives to kindred souls no pain,
Which every pain allays;
And while one path we jointly tread,
May Heaven its kindest influence shed
On all our future days.
Should it be thine, my dearest wife,
When nature sinks in mortal strife,
My darkened eyes to close,
May God thy widowed state befriend,
And every needful succor send,
Till death shall end thy woes.
Should'st thon from my embrace be torn,
My heart shall never cease to mourn
A wife so kind and true;
Thy grave, most sacred in my sight,
Shall oft my lonely steps invite;
My tears thy grave bedew.

THE FAREWELL.
Now ends the hour's communion; near and high,
We have heard whispers from the mountain's heart,
And life henceforth is nobler. With a sigh
Of grateful sadness let us now depart,
And seek our lower levels: rills that start
From this hill's bosom, there reflect the sky:
And a fair valley, in green gladness dress'd,
Wears, in its shadow, the unconscious art
Of beautifying that whence it is blest:
Through this, to labor and to care we move.
Yet, seldom though the distant peaks unshroud 
Themselves from baffling mist and rainy cloud,
We, walking o'er the ever-freshened green,
Shall know the sources of our life above,
Among the mountain-heights of the Unseen.
<c02>
The Liberator.
VISIT TO GERRIT SMITH.
OSWEGO, (N. Y.) April 20, 1861.
MY DEAR FRIEND-I would covet the musician's art "to communicate feelings," if it would avail to describe the sweet cup of happiness just tasted in a visit at the home of that friend of mankind, Gerrit Smith.
It was one of the warm April days of last week that his carriage and pair awaited us at Canastota. An ascent of nine hundred feet is made on the nine miles route to Peterboro'. As we rode up, the air became cooler and finer, and looking back at one point, we gained a wide prospect over one of the lakes that lend interest to the scenery of Central New York. With a niece of Washington Irving's to beguile the way with pleasant talk, we soon neared our destination. On the level way within sight of Peterboro', we perceived a small party on foot coming towards us. It proved to be Mr. Smith, his daughter and her husband. They welcomed us in the kindest manner. Soon we were set down at the door of the grand old mansion-house. There Mrs. Smith received us with a greeting so gracious and affectionate as to seem to me the very counterpart of that given to the bride of Quair:
"She came; they kissed her in the hall;
They kissed her on the winding stair;
They led her to her chamber nigh,
The fairest in the House of Quair."
Presently she came up with exquisite friendliness to take us down herself to the tea-table, where every thing was very elegant and distinguished. And, to match the profusion, there was the benign host overflowing with universal good will, whether he talked or listened. Seldom are our ears blessed with such hearty expressions of respect and homage to the New England Abolitionists as they were in this scene of almost festive enchantment.
The evening hours flew swiftly by in song and chat in the delightful drawing-room. Mrs. Smith brought from the library her copy of Emerson's poems, to show how carefully she had preserved, over the poem of the name, the specimen of your New England Rhodora I had the pleasure to send her three years a go-the only flowers of that beautiful shrub Mrs. S. had ever seen.
At 9 o'clock, Mr. Smith repeated the 125th Psalm: "They that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth forever. As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth even forever. For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity. Do good, O Lord, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts. As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the Lord shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel."
Then the following hymn, illustrating the spirit of Jesus, was sung with soul-subduing melody:
"O, not to crush with abject fear
The burdened soul of man
Did Jesus on the earth appear,
And open Heaven's high plan!
He came to bid him find repose,
And God his Father know,
And thus with love to raise up those
That once were bowed low.
O, not in coldness nor in pride
His holy path he trod,
‘T was his delight to turn aside,
And win the lost to God;
And unto sorrowing guilt disclose
The fount whence peace should flow,
And thus with love to raise up those
That once were bowed low.
O, not with cold, unfeeling eye,
Did he the suffering view;
Not on the other side pass by,
And deem their tears untrue;
‘Twas joy to him to heal their woes,
And heaven's sweet refuge show;
And thus with love to raise up those
That once were bowed low."
Then, a tender, reverential prayer was offered, in tones that were like soft bass music. This worship, genuine and simple, seemed as natural as to breathe. At least, I felt infinite pleasure in it all, such harmony of the inward and outward being. It was a grateful and fitting rounding of the glad day.
Sunday morning, we all went to meeting in the plain little church built by Mr. Smith at a cost of $600. He gave a well-thoughted discourse on Miracles, taking the ground that miracles were never wrought in the sense of the laws of Nature being suspended. Very bold and courageous he was, and this new view will, as he said, make him more odious and unpopular than ever. It was inspiring to witness how disinterested his love of truth is. And he seems, from year to year, to ascend into higher regions of immortal thought. Once he remarked with emphasis, "My abolitionism has greatly helped my religion." During the discussion, one man said to Mr. Smith, "You would not think so much of Providence if you were a poor man!" Mr. Smith replied, he should think very meanly of himself, and be poor indeed, if his trust for consideration was laid on the wealth that perisheth with the using. The flash of conviction on my own mind was, that here was one heedful of the lesson taught by the little chambered Nautilus
"Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,
As the swift seasons roll!
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea!"
A lady on the Hudson had just written him a beautiful letter, how she had been taught by her father to regard him "as the greatest of good men, and the best of great men." And her grief and solicitude, on account of his departure from what she thought the true faith, were very affectionately and touchingly expressed. She begged him to remember, that only through Christ's righteousness could he be saved, and "without holiness no man can see the Lord." Miss P. observed, it was equally true that with holiness no one shall fail to see God. So, it seemed to me that Gerrit Smith was as sure of that great salvation as any body. He has just let another stream of his bounty flow to gladden those poor fugitives that have been so frightened by the base Marshal of Illinois, who has just captured a family, and sent it back to slavery. And now hundreds have rushed into Canada with nothing but their lives and sacred liberty. So Mr. Smith thinks they must need corn for food and coarse clothing, and has sent on his check for $200 to a friend in Detroit, to be laid out for them in those articles. How noble and Christ-like it is in him to let his heart open so generously to every sufferer!
One day, in a long walk over the grounds, we visited the grapery. Planted without, too, are many vines. I asked if there was not a greater supply of fruit than was used at the house. "Not yet; the vines are growing, however, and another year it is our hope to begin to give a grand annual feast of grapes to the poor," was the characteristic reply of this liberal-hearted proprietor.
Have you ever read Zachokke's admirable story-essay, "The Fool of the Nineteenth Century"? I am sure no where in this country can you find such a parallel to the good Baron as at Peterboro'.
In the handsome library hang pictures of Mr. Charles Sumner, Beriah Green, John Anderson, W. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips, John Brown, &c“The noble army of martyrs!” as a friend exclaimed on looking up to them. Little branches of cedar are affectionately about that of John Brown, as if to keep green the memory of that brave and glorious man. Mr. Smith's talk of him, how he loved and honored him, was full of sweet pathos. You will rejoice to know that Mr. Smith is now in fine, glowing health, stronger and better than he has known for years. His strict habit of temperance for thirty years carried him, as Dr. Gray affirms, triumphantly over the dreadful crisis at Utica. Thus he who bears, as Mr. Phillips in his eloquent allusion says, "the noblest name in the Empire State," is mercifully spared to bless the land, as we hope, for many coming years. Apropos of temperance:-At dinner table, one day,
<c03>
when Mrs. M. praised the flavor of the jellies, Mrs. Smith remarked, "We use no wine in our cooking; the flavor is lemon and orange."
You can't think how much attached Mr. Smith is to quiet, retired Peterboro', named after his father, Peter Smith, who went there in 1791, purchasing a tract of some 40,000 acres of land from the Indians, who, in admiration of his executive and unflagging energy, gave him the Indian name signifying Saw Mill, always going. There, young Gerrit, from his tenth year, used to play with Indian boys and African slaves, early learning to practise his later theories of human brotherhood.
We were diverted one evening to hear Mr. Smith gayly remark, "There are three persons who like to live in Peterboro' better than any where else, that is, Col. Miller, myself, and little Harry Barclay who cries to come back " to Peterbor' after going home to New York." Then, Col. Miller related the enthusiastic behavior of this lad Barclay, when he went to Barnum's Museum in New York city to see the turkey weighing 34 lbs. for President Lincoln's dinner, on his way to Washington. The card said this turkey was raised in Wampsville, Madison County. "Yes," said this boy, and he swung his hat, "you've got to go to Madison County for big turkeys, and everything else worth anything!"
All too soon came the inevitable hour of parting. The carriage stood at the door. The gathered household on the piazza, as Whittier sings,
"The good, the beautiful, the brave,
The Heaven-lent treasures of the heart!"
waving us the kindest of farewells, was a picture we
must ever recall with truest delight.
SALLIE HOLLEY.

REMARKS ON THE WAR.
At a meeting in Leicester, called to organize a military company, held on Monday evening, April 22d, Rev. Samuel May being called upon, spoke as follows:-
Mr. Chairman, I have come to this meeting with a peculiar satisfaction. These are indeed serious times, but, Sir, they are full of promise and full of hope for all who truly love liberty. I rejoice to see this spacious hall so well filled. I had hoped it would have been filled to overflowing, and be unable to contain the numbers who would flock together. But I am aware that the time has been but short since the call was issued, and I feel very sure, Sir, that no other call could have assembled so many in this hall as I now see.
And this is right. Leicester, in past times, has ever been honorably distinguished by her zeal, her efforts, and her sacrifices in behalf of the country. I trust it will be seen that the Leicester of 1861 is not a whit behind the Leicester of 1761, of 1770, and of 1775. To the war of the American Revolution, this town sent upwards of TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY MEN, at a time when the whole population of the town did not probably exceed seven hundred persons. I think of the honored names of Henshaw, Washburn, Denny, Southgate, Sargent, Newhall, Livermore, Craig, and of the many more whom time fails to mention, and I feel the earnest hope and the confident belief that we of this day will show ourselves not unworthy of our history as a town, and of its ancestry.
The unanimity of the Northern people at this hour is, Sir, something extraordinary; a thing for which no one was prepared, but which is, I believe, the result of the thorough education in the principles and doctrines of genuine, impartial freedom, which it has received during the past five and twenty years. It has been well prepared for the coming contest with that artful and iniquitous system of Slavery, which has raised its rebel head and hand against a Government, which, for forbearance, for readiness to conciliate and to yield, for patience even to a fault, has had no parallel in any history I know.
For, Sir, disguise it as we may, Slavery, and Slavery alone, is the cause of the conflict in which we are now engaged. Has not Slavery been the master-power in this Government from the beginning? We know it has; and we have seen it revolt, turn rebel, and secede, when, for the first time, the sceptre departed from its hand. Very true, only a portion of the slave States was engaged in the secession,as was thought. For the easy, all-hoping North believed that Kentucky, and Missouri, and Tennessee, and Virginia, and Maryland, and perhaps North Carolina, would still stand by the old flag, and continue members of the United States. The North has long been willfully blind to the true character of Slavery. It corrupts and contaminates all who uphold, defend, and justify it, and none such can be trusted. How is it now? In the moment of the Government's sorest need, in the hour of the country's greatest peril, every one of the slaveholding States proves traitorous. Their Governors deliberately and insolently declare that "not a man" shall be granted to defend the Government, or even the National Capital! or they shoot down our own Massachusetts troops marching at the President's call! Will the North at last understand Slavery?
Sir, I may say here that, for a large period of my life, ever since I have been a citizen of Leicester,-a period longer than most of you here present have lived,-I have felt assured, that either all principle, all conscience, all Christianity, all sense of justice and right in the land would be crushed out by Slavery, or Slavery itself must die. I, for one, could not consent to pay any such price, in order that Slavery might reign lord paramount; and I never would consent that old Massachusetts should come under the rule of that blasphemous and atheistic system, which tramples under its foul hoofs every principle and law of God's righteous government, every precept and command of Christ's beneficent religion, as well as all the dearest rights of humanity; a system which would sell you and me, your wife, my wife, your daughter, my daughter, our brave and dear sons, for the basest purposes of avarice and lust. Now we all must see, what the anti-slavery men and women of the land have long foreseen.
Sir, I see before me the "Stars and Stripes," and I feel therewith a pleasure which I have not felt before for more than twenty years. To-night the old flag looks beautiful to me; for now I see it scouted, scorned, by every Slave State, while every Free State stands, shoulder to shoulder, beneath its folds. Now, at length, it becomes emblematic of that which just and honest men may truly love and honor. I pray it may never again wave over the human flesh shambles, but be devoutly and sincerely consecrated to Liberty, Justice and Humanity-to Union and Freedom. And in this trying hour, while our Government stands face to face with the Slave Power, manfully resisting its aggressive and traitorous course, and striving to arrest its mad career towards the subjugation of our whole country to its infernal sway, let us, one and all, soberly, steadfastly, and heartily stand by the Government, and, while it contends for liberty, be ready, as our fathers were, to pledge "our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor" in this holy cause. And may God be with us as He was with our fathers!

THUNDER AND LIGHTNING.
When we hear people object to discussion on the subject of slavery, because it creates excitement and confusion, we think of an anecdote we once heard. In time of drought, a country church met to pray for rain. During the exercises, a dark cloud rolled up from the West, and soon a terrific thunder-storm was raging above them. The women and children were frightened, and dismay and confusion reigned; when an idiot in the gallery rose, stretched his hands to heaven and cried, "Good Lord, they prayed for rain, not for thunder or lightning!" The fact is, we must take the thunder and the lightning with the rain; and indeed it is often the most salutary part of the shower. So when a giant evil is to be removed, excitement and bitterness will follow discussion. But what then? Must we continue to allow the wrong because wicked men hate the right, and will oppose it with violence and clamor? Give us the rain, and the thunder and lightning may come if they will.
<c04>
FREE SPEECH AND FREE DISCUSSION.
BY L. J. MADDEN.
The voice of humanity in behalf of right is but the voice of God. It must and will be heard. The education, jealousies and downright wickedness of men may lead them to oppose it with all the intensity of hatred and malice imaginable, but they could as easily pull down the throne of the Great Eternal as to overcome and annihilate it. The effort was made in the days of the apostles, time and again, to kill free speech, but it failed in every instance, and most remarkably, too. Strange, that the failure, in connection with the miraculous manner the God of heaven vindicated the right of free speech, should have lost its influence on the minds of thousands even in this land of Bibles.
The "high priest" and "Sadducee" were the leaders in the movement then. Their Union was in danger. In the crucifixion of the Son of God, they thought they had removed the chief source of its danger. But, alas for their hopes! the blood of the Cross had emphasized the doctrines of his lips and the sentiments of his life, with greater power than ever before. The same were being taught and exemplified with fearful warnings to his murderers in the life of his apostles. Something more must be done, or the Union would inevitably go to ruin. "The high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together, and all the Senate of the children of Israel." They had put the disturbers of their peace in prison once or twice; but the prison would not hold them. "The angel of the Lord by night opened the prison-doors, and brought them forth and said, Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life." "The officers," instead of finding them in the "prison," found them in the "temple,” teaching the people. God would exercise the right of free speech through them. The Union might fall, but the right of free speech should be maintained. Great was the excitement and indignation of "the Council" and Senate. Great Union speeches were made. “Annus the high priest, and Cajaphas, and John, and Alexander," were melted into tears. Was not the God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, the God of their Union? and had not its fame and glory awakened the wonder and admiration of every kingdom? What, then, must be done? 
The first thing resolved upon was the suppression of free speech. Agitation must be put down, or the work of ruin would go on. If they would consent to compromise, pledging themselves "not to teach and preach Jesus Christ," the Union men would let them go. But Peter and the other apostles-who, by the way, were not very deeply in love with conservatism-refused to compromise. "We ought to obey God rather than men," was the noble reply, adding, emphatically, "The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree." This burning declaration, destroying all hope of a compromise, went home like a dagger to the hearts of the Union men of that Council and Senate; for, "when they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them." What a pity, I have thought, sometimes, that some modern conservative had not been there in the form of some pro-slavery divine, to have exhorted Peter to decency in the use of language, to have reprehended him for such plain talk to the officials of the government, to have denounced him as fanatical, self-willed, foolish, for harping so inconsiderately and constantly upon the resurrection of Christ, mounting the question as a hobby, to the great torment and indignation of those whose hands and souls were stained with the blood of the Crucified.’
One noble man, alone, in that Council and Senate, protested against a resolution to put Peter and his companions to death. After putting "the apostles forth a little space," he proceeded to vindicate, in a masterly argument, the right of free speech, and by the most convincing illustrations, exposed the folly of supposing its suppression could save their Union from distraction.
It would be well for thousands in our government to study more carefully the great speech of Dr. Gamaliel. This circumstance is only one among many that might be named, to show the folly of efforts to stifle free discussion, to beat back and chain down great and glorious thoughts. It will not do to plead devotion to the Union in justification of unlawful acts, so God-defying as the suppression of free speech by mob power, or any other power equally wicked; for such devotion will, sooner or later, murder the very life of the cause which it seeks to promote. We see in the lamentable condition of the Jews a solemn protest against that kind of devotion which seeks to advance its interests by wicked means; or tries to keep from the records of time other thoughts than its own. The imprisonment of John Bunyan, on purpose to keep from the ear of the world the great thoughts of his soul, resulted-as God would have it-in a glorious failure. Mob law, in the death of Lovejoy at Alton, clothed his dying words and sentiments with a power that will live to thrill the hearts of millions with a holy zeal, a God-like purpose, and an unyielding determination to battle for the right, till the chains of oppression fall from the limbs of every slave. One writer has truthfully said, "A great thought is a spirit that no mortal weapon can slay, no chain of earthly metal bind, no flame that man can kindle consume; it smiles at the wrath of clay; it mocks the frown of the tyrant." The mob spirit which has so recently developed itself in so many of our Northern cities-Boston, New York, Syracuse, Utica, Rochester and Buffalo-to say nothing of the blood-stained soil of a Southern latitude-will do more to disgrace and weaken the stability of our Union, than all the "Peace Commissioners" at Washington can do to save it from distraction. Mobs may secure, for a short time, the inauguration of barbarism and strengthen the waning power of bigotry, but so sure as there is a God of justice, freedom of speech and of the press must ultimately triumph. The lessons of history most clearly demonstrate this. The late triumphant struggle of Italy -the land of classic memories-proclaims the power of free speech when operating as the executor of God's will in the cause of right. The claims of despotism may bind it down for a long time-as men reckon time-but it has only to seek its strength from God, and, then, with a Samson-like power, avenge its wrongs and vindicate its right to reign. The system of American slavery does now, as it ever has, call to its aid influences as dark and cruel as the grave. It places its prisons, gallows, pistols, knives, chains, foot-pads, thumb-screws, and dirks, insultingly in the face of free speech, and frowns with the madness of hell itself upon this God-given right. It lays plans and devises means to waylay and murder the President elect on his way to Washington, and actually compels him to hurry in disguise to his future home, and then-as the records read  disappointed in its murderous intentions, swears, in the person of five hundred conspirators, he shall never "sleep in the White House." Does not Southern madness "rule the hour"? And yet we are told that agitation must be put down. Slavery demands it. Has there ever been a period in the history of nations when it was put down? and if so, did it stay put down? Will not the power of Heaven pull it up, and keep it in being? May we not inquire of slavery, in its dark and damnable efforts to put down the right to think and speak, "Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?" If slavery is the enemy of free speech, can slavery, and free speech, and the Union live together in peace? If slavery cannot live with free speech and the Union, as the home of freedom and freemen cannot live without it, which shall fall-slavery or the Union? Is it a fact that our nation-through its Representatives and Peace Commissioners-are trying to save the Union or slavery? For one, I confess, I am somewhat bewildered. If it be true, however-in the words of George Mason, one of the framers of the Constitution of the United States"SLAVERY BRINGS THE JUDGMENT OF HEAVEN UPON A COUNTRY!" then I am deeply interested in its downfall, that the Union may stand, through all coming time, as the "home of the brave and land of the free.”-Dover Morning Star.

FLIGHT OF FUGITIVES FROM ILLINOIS.
The Stampede for Canada-Scenes at the Depot, &c.
The utmost consternation prevails among all classes of the colored residents of the city, and the exodus from a state of uncertainty to one of absolute freedom still continues. All day, yesterday, the vicinity of the Michigan Southern depot was a scene of excitement and confusion. After the religious services at the Zour Baptist Church in the morning, which was densely attended, the leave-taking commenced. Edina Place, Buffalo, Clark and Harrison streets, which are largely inhabited by the colored population, were crowded all the afternoon by the
<c05>
fugitives and their friends, going from door to door, bidding each other good bye, and mingling their congratulations and tears. The colored clergymen of this city were also among the number, and labored ardently in extending encouragement and consolation to those about to depart. Sorrowful groups of men, women and children gathered in the dooryards and upon the sidewalks, and many affecting scenes occurred. In some instances entire families were going together, in which cases there seemed to be a general jubilation; in others a few members, a wife leaving a husband, or a mother her children, amid tears and promises of constant recollection until a good time coming. Upon the part of all, afflictive as they considered their dispensation, there seemed to be a general and decided belief that the day of their emancipation from trouble was near at hand.
Four freight cars had been chartered of the Michigan Southern Railroad Company at a tariff of $200, and all the afternoon drays, express wagons and other vehicles were busy transporting trunks, bandboxes, valises and various articles of household furniture to the depot. The wants of the outer man had been attended to also, and a goodly store of provisions, such as crackers, bread, beans, dried beef and dried apples, were packed in, and a barrel of water in each car; for the fugitives were to be stowed away in the same cars with the freight, with plenty of fresh air, but no light, and in a crowded, unwholesome state.
As the hour of departure-half-past six-drew nigh, the streets adjacent to the depot and the immediate vicinity of the four cars, near the corner of Harrison and Griswold streets, were thronged with an excited multitude of colored people of both sexes and all ages. Large numbers of white people also gathered from motives of curiosity, and stood silent spectators of this rather unusual spectacle. The four cars were rapidly filled with the fugitives, numbering 106 in all, and embracing men, women, youth and infants. In the rear car were two or three sick women, who were treated with the utmost tenderness, and made the recipients of every attention possible to alleviate their hard lot. The whole business of the transportation was supervised by two or three colored men, assisted by several white people.
After all were aboard, which was concluded by six o'clock, the immense crowd pressed up to the cars, and commenced the last farewell. The general appearance of all-both of those going and those staying-was one of joy at the expected deliverance from an uncertainty, which might at any hour return them to a bondage they had escaped. Here and there was one in tears and wringing the hands, but the majority were in the best of humor, and were congratulated by their friends lingering behind, that to-morrow they would be free. ”Never mind," said one, "the good Lord will save us all in the coming day." Another was encouraging a weeping woman, and urging her not to cry, but thank God she had a place to go to out of the way of the slave-catchers. These and like congratulations were interchanged, and as one crowd finished, their places were supplied by a fresh delegation from the outside multitude, who also went through their congratulations and hand-shakings, bidding their friends write when they got to "the other side of Jordan," and not forget them in the new country. The minister of the neighboring church where they had attended, also went from car to car, bidding them be men when they got to Canada.
The larger proportion of the fugitives were stout, able-bodied young men, many of them well-dressed, and some of them almost white. These apparently were light-hearted, and looked forward to their night's ride, albeit under privations and difficulties, with a large degree of pleasure and good nature, some of them seeming to enjoy it as a good joke. The elder ones evinced no levity, but acted like those who had been hardened by troubles, and were now suffering a lot foreseen and prepared for. In every case they stoically bade their friends good bye, each expressing a hope of a good time coming, a belief which seemed deeply implanted in the breasts of all. Said one of them, an old man, about seventy, to another of a like age, who was to remain, "Ah! Johnsing, Johnsing, de road must turn; it's 'bout done gone!” The women more frequently gave way to their troubles, but upon the encouragement of their friends would soon become buoyant and light-hearted, and attempt to laugh off their troubles. Quite a number of children were among the crowd, who, ignorant of the cause of such a commotion, gave the rest constant trouble by getting into the wrong cars, and climbing round between the wheels.
But all were finally stowed away, the bell of the engine sounded, and the train started amid lusty cheers, many-voiced good byes, and the waving of hats and handkerchiefs as far as the eye could see. The fugitives heartily responded, and the train vanished in the distance.
About one thousand fugitives have arrived in this city since last fall, a large number of whom have left within the past few days. It is evidently the wisest course for them to pursue, as it is sheer folly for them to remain where they are in imminent danger of being returned to slavery.-Chicago Journal, 8th ult.
THE COLORED STAMPEDE. The stampede among the dark skins of Chicago, which commenced immediately after the rendition of the Harris family of slaves, still continues. The blessings that this exodus of vice and depravity will confer upon the moral, physical and political health of Chicago are incalculable. It will rid us of the debris of the colored population, leaving a better name and a better opportunity for those of that color who remain, whose industry and economy have already commended them to the favorable consideration of our citizens. Our criminal courts will experience a very great abridgement of their dockets, and Abolition pettifoggers will have fewer occasions to exhibit their voluntary sympathy, and less opportunities to blow themselves into a notoriety which they can attain in no other way. We can get along with a much smaller police force than formerly, and clothes lines, hen roosts, wood yards and hundreds of similar scenes of former petty thieving, will be blessed with more sample security.-Chicago Times. [What baseness!]

ARRIVAL OF MAJOR ANDERSON AT NEW YORK.
Major Anderson and his men arrived at New York in the steamer Baltic, which had the flag of Fort Sumter flying from the mainmast head, and the flag of Fort Moultrie from the foremast, and were received by an immense concourse of people at the Battery, with demonstrations of joy. Anderson proceeded to the Brevoort House, where he joined his wife.
The following is Major Anderson's dispatch to the Secretary of War:-
"Sir,-Having defended Fort Sumter thirty-four hours, until the quarters were entirely burned and the main gates destroyed by fire, the gorge wall seriously injured, the magazine surrounded by flames and its door closed from the effects of the heat, four boxes and three cartridges of powder only being available, and no provisions but pork remaining, I accepted the terms of evacuation offered by Gen. Beauregard, being the same offered by him on the 11th inst., prior to the commencement of hostilities, and marched out of the fort Sunday afternoon, 14th inst, with colors flying and drums beating, bringing away my company and our private property, and saluting my flag with fifty guns.
(Signed,) ROBERT ANDERSON.
Major of 1st Artillery."
The following account is from Capt. Doubleday:-
"The demand to surrender Fort Sumter was made Thursday, April 11th, and refused, not only by Major Anderson, but by the unanimous voice of his command. On Friday morning, at three o'clock, the rebels sent word that a fire would be opened in one hour; and at four o'clock, the fire commenced from every direction, including a hidden battery. The fire was opened with a volley of ten-inch shells from seventeen mortars, and shot from thirty-two guns, mostly columbiads. We took breakfast, how ever, very leisurely. The command was divided into three watches, each under the direction of two officers. After breakfast, they immediately went to their guns, and commenced a return fire on Fort Moultrie, Cumming's Point and Sullivan's Island. The iron battery at Cumming's Point was of immense strength, and most of our shots glanced off. Major Anderson refused to allow the men to work the guns on the parapet, on account of such a terrific fire being directed there. Scarcely a room in Fort Moultrie was left inhabitable. Several shots went through the floating battery, which was a little damaged. Two guns of the iron battery were dismantled. A man was stationed who cried 'shot' or 'shell' when the rebels fired, and our garrison were thus enabled to dodge. At first, the laborers were reluctant to help work the guns; but afterwards they served most willingly and effectively
<c06>
against the iron battery. Our barracks caught fire several times Friday, but it was extinguished. On Saturday, the officers' quarters caught fire from shells, and the main gates were burnt. The magazine was surrounded by fire, and ninety barrels of powder taken out and thrown into the sea. When the magazine was encircled by fire, all our materials were cut off, and we had eaten our last <illegible> two days before. The men had to lie on the ground with wet handkerchiefs on their faces, to avoid smothering, and a favorable eddy of wind was all that saved our lives. Our cartridge-bags gave out, and five men were employed to manufacture them out of shirts, sheets, blankets, &c. It will take half a million dollars to repair Fort Sumter's interior. Most of their shot were aimed at the United States flag."

UNION AND RECEPTION MEETING.
Glowing accounts of the great meeting in New York on Saturday, 20th ult., are given in the papers. From them we gather that the Empire City never before saw such an immense concourse of people to respond to the call for a Union meeting. The most experienced reporters have never had occasion to estimate the numbers of so large an assemblage, and the lightning calculator could hardly do justice to the subject. To say that there were a hundred thousand people there the Times thinks is to fall far below the mark. The Herald's estimate is five hundred thousand. The Square and the streets adjoining were thronged, and the whole city was alive with people all the afternoon. Nearly every house was decked with national emblems, and the enthusiasm was unbounded. Five stands had been erected, and from them stirring speeches were made by General Dix, Daniel S. Dickinson, Mayor Wood, Wm. M. Evarts, Moses H. Grinnell, Wm. F. Havemeyer, Henry J. Raymond, ex-Governor Hunt, Senator Baker, ex-Governor Fish, Richard O'Gorman, John Cochrane, D. D. Field, Judge Pierrepont, Theodore Tilton, Chauncy Schaffer, and a host of others. A letter from Archbishop Hughes, breathing fervent Union sentiments, was read and all the speakers were for sustaining the Government fully. The Volunteer Companies were parading in great force all day. Major Anderson was present at the great meeting, and the wildest cheering greeted him wherever he appeared. The Herald thus relates the soldier's arrival:-
THE RECEPTION OF MAJOR ANDERSON.
At three o'clock, the committee formed, and with Major Anderson at their head, and the police making a passage for them, marched to the central stand, opposite the statue. Volleys of cheers saluted the Major as he passed through the crowd and took his place upon the stand. The crowd upon the platform was so great that Major Anderson could not be distinguished by the people; but his presences seemed to be felt like an electric shock; his name passed from mouth to mouth, and in an instant, waves upon waves of cheers saluted him, hats, flags and handkerchiefs were thrown into the air, and the people seemed wild with excitement and enthusiasm. The Major bowed his responses to these salutations, and after several minutes the people intermitted their cheering from sheer want of strength to cheer longer. The ovation was splendid, and worthy of the man who had earned it. Major Anderson's men were, we understand, invited and expected to be with their gallant commander. The rules of the service, however, did not allow the officers and men to attend in a body, and the rules are particularly strict and rigidly observed at such times as these. Several of the men from Governor's Island were among the crowd, however; but being dressed in the blue army overcoats, which are also worn by our militia, they were not recognized. None of Major Anderson's officers accompanied him upon the platform, except Captain Doubleday, of Brooklyn, and Lieutenants Snyder and Sneed, who were saluted with tremendous applause.
An impressive feature of the occasion was the flag of Fort Sumter, hoisted on the stump of the staff that had been shot away by the revolutionists, and which was placed in the hand of the equestrian statue of Washington. It is described as follows:-
RAISING OF THE FORT SUMTER FLAG.
At about a quarter before three o'clock, the flags brought away from Fort Sumter were raised. The one that was shot away was placed on the bronze statue of Washington, the hand of the Father of his Country grasping the shattered flagstaff. The other was tied to a tree, around the trunk of which stand No.1 had been built, and there waved over the heads of the speakers, &c. As the man was fastening this flag up, Superintendent Kennedy advanced to the front of the platform, and said:- “The man who is fastening up that flag is the Metropolitan policeman who was in Fort Sumter during the fight, and who nailed the flag to the mast.” The announcement was received with loud cheers. After a very brief interval, three cheers were proposed for "Mr. Hart” which were heartily given; three more for "Our Volunteer," three for “the man who nailed the colors to the mast," and a final three for "Major Anderson,” who had not yet arrived. Loud cries were next raised for Hart, from whom the crowd wished to have a speech, and on his stepping upon one of the seats of the platform and raising his hat, the cheers that burst forth were loud and uproarious. He said:-
"I see here a great many patriotic hearts before me, who, on each day, we were wishing, were with us at Fort Sumter when we were sustaining the flag of our country and our laws. (Tremendous cheers.)" 
By this time, the flag that was being attached to the statue of Washington was properly fixed, and cheer upon cheer greeted it as its folds were spread to the breeze. The shattered remains of the bunting seemed to draw forth a sympathetic sigh, and a tear for the fallen, as well as a shout for revenge upon the fell destroyer. Nothing could exceed the manifestation of one sentiment than that which these flags evoked when they were raised. And when the speakers in the course of their remarks alluded to them, the shouts were long, loud and deep. The Union sentiment was indeed strong.
A series of resolutions was proposed, and unanimously adopted, pledging the meeting to use every means to preserve the Union intact and inviolate, and agreeing to the appointment of a committee of twenty-five, to represent the citizens in the collection of funds and the transaction of such other business in aid of the Government as the public interests may require. Great unanimity prevailed throughout the whole proceedings; party politics were ignored, and the entire meeting-speakers and listeners-were a unit in maintaining the national honor unsullied.
AN IMPROMPTU ACCOUNT OF THE SIEGE OF SUMTER.
While the reporters were seated at a table, busily engaged in transcribing the various statements they had received from the officers of Major Anderson's command, an officer who had previously stood quietly in the background, suddenly addressed them in a most emphatic manner, substantially as follows:-"Gentlemen of the press, I earnestly entreat that you will clearly set before our countrymen at the North the fact, that Fort Sumter was not evacuated while there was a cartridge to <illegible> or powder enough left to make one with. Never did famished men work more bravely than those who defended that fortress, knowing, as they did, that if successfully defended and held by them, there was not even a biscuit to divide among them. They never would have left it while a protecting wall stood around them, had they been provided with provision and ammunition. Every man was true and faithful to his post, and the public may be assured that hunger and ammunition alone caused us to leave Fort Sumter. We were all exposed to a most terrible fire from all quarters, and it was only by exercising the utmost care that the officers were enabled to preserve the men from a terrible slaughter You may further state, gentlemen, that Fort Sumter is hardly worth the holding: had there been the full fighting compliment of men within its wall, the fort would not have afforded suitable protection for one-half of them. The enemy's shot rained in upon and about us like hail, and more men in Sumter would only have made more havoc As it was, we are fortunate in having escaped without the loss of one of those brave men who were willing to die for the flag which waved over them. It was a painful sight to all to see the Stars and Stripes finally hauled down; but we felt that we had done our duty, and must submit. The fort was not surrendered, but evacuated almost upon our own terms.”-N. Y. Tribune.
THE WOMEN IN THE FIELD. A gentleman who passed through Illinois last Saturday, states that he saw a band of prairie girls handling a field piece with a skill that astonished him; not that there were not men enough to work it, but the girls wanted exercise and pastime, and were bound to have it.
