THE LIBERATOB 
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
— AT — 
221 WASHINGTON STREET,ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENCY.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payments is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz:— WEXDELL PHILIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.52. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1863.WHOLE NO. 1716.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
GEOEGE THOMPSON. 
Boston, Saturday, Nov. 21 The Liberator of this city, announces that the Hon-George Thompson, the English Abolitionist, will soon revisit this country to congratulate his friends upon the improved aspect of affairs.
This “honorable” miscreant had better stay at home and spare us the loathing with which we shall receive his “congratulations.” The ribald speeches of this tonguey spouter in his visits to this country in the early stages of the abolition agitation were equally remarkable for impertinence and for blasphemy. He is to come now, like a friend, to gloat over the carnage which he and his abolition confederates have caused. “To congratulate his friends,”. Forsooth! So might the witches in “Macbeth" have congratulated each other, when the hell-broth of their infernal cauldron took effect, and the ghost of the murdered Banquo rose to sear the eye-balls of those whose bands had been dipt in his blood. “On the improved aspect of affairs!” Nothing less than Abolitionists, or their black father!” the Devil, could indulge in this satanic irony. “Improved aspect of affairs” —the fiendish wretch! When this notorious George Thompson, M.P., the paid emissary of the British Abolitionists, made his first visit to this country, we were a united people. Our churches, modeled on our political organization, had their general conventions, in which delegates from every state met in the spirit of Christian charity and brotherly love to consult on the common interests of their respective denominations. But this infamous libeler brought the torch of discord. These great Christian bodies were one by one torn asunder by dissensions, and the angry passions of men, released from Christian restraint, hurried them into a more intemperate in religion. The last time this spouting miscreant was here, he complimented the American by saying that “God in his anger had rained down upon the country ten thousand priests.” Of the appropriate and peaceful fruits of the labors of a Christian priesthood, he will now find little to complain of. Instead of these, the land is drunk with tratricidal blood, and half our families are in mourning. Our Republican government, which was the light and boast of freemen, the hope and solace of the oppressed in all lands, is now engaged in a bloody struggle for its existence, and this heartless imp of Satan is coming across the ocean “to congratulate his friends on the improved aspect of affairs. “Such are the tender mercies of Abolitionism! With its hans dripping with blood, it raises them in diabolcal thankfulness over the murderous desolation it has caused! A jollification by the Abolitionists, and an orgie of devils, would be equally appropriate, under the circumstances—and equally in character.— New York World.

THE NOTORIOUS “GEO.THOMSON.”
This notorious seditionary has twice visited America to incite discord and rebellion; and twice has been driven from our soil, narrowly escaping the vengeance of an outraged populace.
His last advent here was some twelve years ago, at Fannel Hall Boston, when his bold sedition and treson was too outrageous for even the people of that saintly hot-bed of Abolitionism; and he escaped violence only by disguising himself in the petticoats of Abby Foster, and under escort of Garrison and Philips was smuggled into Canada.
Now it is gravely announced that this notorious inciter of National discord will again pollute our soil with his presence. “to congratulate his friends upon THE IMPROVED ASPECT OF AFFAIRS!” If he is permitted to raise his voice in public, bringing with him, as he will, his black record, it will be a sad commentary on our National self-respect.
The “aspect of affairs” have indeed changed since the emissary of Europe last visited us. He then founds us united, Peaceful, Prosperous, and happy throughout the whole extent of our broad domain. Now an awful rebellion is raging in our midst, the friends of the Union are straining every nerve to save the Nation’s vitality, and the terrible effects of the carnage on war has been felt in almost every household. This “aspect of affairs” Great Britain has long prayed for and THOMSON and his Abolition admirers have long labored to effect. But the great mass of the people in this side of the Atlantic fail to discover in it an “improvement," and THOMSON will be likely to discover this fact if he pays us another visit.
But we have no expectation that the ex-member of Parliament has the brazen hardihood to again dishonor the British crown by his presence on our soil. The liberator has probably thrown this out as a "feeler" to draw public sentiment, and we hope it will be given without stint or measure.—Columbia (Bloomsburg,Pa.) Democrat.
GEORGE THOMPSON COMING
We learn by way of Boston, that the notorious English Abolitionist, George Thompson, is about to re-visit this country to congratulate us (what bitter irony!) upon the felicitous stage of existence which the great Republic has reached, partly through the instrumentally of such demagogues as he, who began some twenty-five years ago, as an English emissary, to stir up among us the flames of Abolition hate, which have since been blown into a great and consuming conflagration.
But, by all means, let George Thompson come. He will get an enthusiastic welcome, we nothing doubt, in Boston, and all through New England.
We believe, also, that if he would go to Richmond, he would be received with open arms by the secessionist there, as a man who has done as much as any of them, in his own way, to break up the Union and plunge North and South into civil war.
The rebel Congress, soon about to meet at Richmond, will be ungrateful, indeed, if it does not resolve at once to invite him to their capital, and tender him the hospitalities of the city , in token of their appreciation of his distinguished services, years gone by in their cause.–N.Y.Express
REASONS WITH THEY DO NOT WISH THE WAR TO END. If the war were ended and the Union rested, the secession States would be entitled to vote at the next presidential election, and most certainly would not vote to continue this administration, or to bring in another of the same instincts and purposes, which would destroy all their hopes. Hence they will not consent thus to render their own defeat certain, but will continue the war till after the election. All this is demonstrated by the past history of the administration, and the fact that more attention is being paid to put down the democrats at the elections than to suppress the rebellion.–Washington Institution.
<c02>
Selections. 
GEOEGE THOMPSON, ESQ. 
The Liberator, of Boston, announces that George Thompson "will soon visit this country, to congratulate his friends upon the improved condition of affairs." The copperhead press are making a wonderful ado over this proposed visit; and if the king of a race of cannibals were about to visit us, they could not be louder, or more sweeping and bitter in their denunciations, or more vile in their slanderous abuse, than they are against this prominent and eloquent champion of Liberty. There is, probably, no man in England who has felt a deeper interest in the welfare of this country, or who has kept himself better informed in all the minutiae pertaining to its history or its progress, than George Thompson. It matters but little whether we agree or disagree with him in all his opinions or his policies; it is enough for us to know at this time, that ever since this rebellion commenced, his heart and his Sympathies have been with the North, and we hail his coming with entire satisfaction. Notwithstanding all the lies that may be circulated, or all the vile abuse that may be heaped upon him, standing side by side with that other learned and accomplished orator, Wendell Phillips, upon the rostrum, in graceful delivery, earnest exhortation or powerful appeal that will reach the hearts and consciences of their hearers, we believe this country cannot produce their superiors, even if it can furnish their equals.— Tunkhannock (Pa.) Republican. 
A COMPETENT WITNESS. 
Hear the testimony of a man of mark, the Rev. Baptist Noel, once a clergyman of the Church of England and Chaplain to her Majesty, from which positions he seceded to become as worthily illustrious in the ranks of Dissent, almost exclusively on reasons affecting the spiritual welfare of the nation. He has just published a book, entitled " The Rebellion in America," which can scarcely fail to produce an echo on your side of the Atlantic. It champions us magnificently, dissects secession minutely and mercilessly, and pushes the questions involved in the great struggle home to the hearts and consciences of Englishmen. Seldom, I think, has the Anglo-Rebel press experienced such a wholesome flogging as is administered in this volume, which will be read by tens of thousands. As the book is quite new, I cannot deny myself or your readers the pleasure of a sample:
"Some writers deal with the United States as flies with a horse which has been galled. The beauty, fleetness, force, and good temper of the animal are nothing to them. They are all eye for the sore. Pouncing on that, they suck and suck. The sore is everything to them—food, delight, triumph. So they suck on, and by their bum and flutter call a swarm to suck with them. Others are more like muaketoes, who only exist to sting. Whenever you hear their buzz, you may be sure they are going to insert their venom somewhere. Sometimes a correspondent, led by his principal, seems to me like a bull-dog led by an ill-looking owner. Both men are bent on mischief. The brute is never so well pleased as when he can make his teeth meet in the flesh of any one; and the master grins with exultation to see the prowess of his dog. 
Hatred has been exalted since the beginning of this American Rebellion to an unusual eminence. We used to think it one of the works of the flesh which exclude a man from the favor of God (Gal. v. 19—21), and then we supposed that charity was a virtue. But all things are lawful against the "turbulent Democracy." Hatred, therefore, is put by some writers in the place of charity. Their creed in writing of the Yankees is, 'Though I speak with the tongue of men and angels, and have not hatred, I am become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. Now abideth knowledge, talent, hatred, but the greatest of these is hatred.' The character of Jesus was marked by the Holy Spirit descending upon Him in the form of a dove; but the inspiration of these writers, though they call themselves His disciples, would be rather symbolized by the tiger or the snake. To endeavor to prove to them that the people of the United States are as much as ourselves intelligent, orderly, patriotic, and humane, would be like trying to prove to Herodias the excellence of John, or to Caiaphas the divine mission of Jesus. If you give them evidence that the slaveholders are made by their system cruel, selfish, imperious and tyrannical, they do not seem to like them the leas on that account. Pharisees do not love Pharisees the less because Jesus revealed that they were like sepulchres, full of rottenness underneath their gilding. Why should the rotten dislike the rotten? 
I should no more expect generosity from such writers than I should gentleness from a boa-constrictor, or fragrance from a common sewer. Even their charity has bitternss in it. If they deplore the distress in Lancashire, it is that they may make you hate the Americans; if they lament the blood shed in the American war, it is to secure a triumph to the rebellion. But if any American meets with this volume, let him be assured that we are not all of this stamp in England. From Lord Russell down to the honest weaver an Lancashire, we wish well to the United State; and should it please God to restore the Union, we shall rejoice in their prosperity as sin-cerely as we do in our own. Leaving the flies to such sores, and the mosketoes, to sting we shall thank God for his blearing to America, as we do for his goodness to us."—Eng. Corr. of Independent. 

THE AMERICAS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
CELEBRATION OF ITS THIRD DECADE. 
PHILADELPHIA, Dec 5. To the Editors of the Independent: I sit down to pen a few hasty lines concerning the brilliant meetings which have just been concluded here is this city, in celebration of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society. Thirty yean ago, a little company of sixtv or seventy persons, male and female, covenanted with each other, in this city, to uplift their voices—amid the general silence of the land—against the sin and shame of American slavery. Among this company were William Lloyd Garrison, (who drafted a Declaration of Sentiaments,) John G. Whittier, James and Lucretia Mott, Robert Purvis, James Miller McKim, Lewis Tappan, and others less known to fame. Your Quaker contributor of Amesbury, in a beautiful letter drawing tears from many eyes in the convention, described the committee meeting for completing this document as having been held hi the upper chamber of a colored man's house; and he added, characteristically, that though, as an author, he valued the praise of his countrymen, yet he was more proud of his name as appended to that 
<c03>
Declaration of Sentiments than upon the tide-page of any book! Of the sixty-three original signers, forty-five are still living—a somewhat remarkable exemption from ordinary mortality — and eleven were present at the convention—men venerable and revered, whom may God still preserve to see with their mortal eyes the breaking of the last fetter in the land! The gathering of people—members and strangers—seemed at times too large for Concert Hall to hold the multitude. It was a strange meeting; not a stone was thrown; not a hiss heard; not an egg cracked; and yet it was a meeting of Radical Abolitionists! Clapping of hands and applauding cheers took the place of the old-time salutations of enmity! God be thanked for that changed spirit of the American people, through which they have now learned better than to stone their prophets! 
The platform was made gay with flags, with anti-slavery mottoes from the early great men of the Republic, with a life-like portrait of John Brown, and with an auction-block once used at slave-sales, and now turned into a speaker's stand at an Abolition meeting! The great occasion drew together, from many different States, a company of noble men and women—choice spirits in the land—including many of the conspicuous veterans of the cause. Sweeping the eye over the broad and dense audience, the faces were such as one would like a foreigner to see, as representing the intellectual, moral, and philanthropic side of the American character—such an audience as is not often seen even by Americans themselves. The convention sat two days—holding, in all, four sessions. The secretaries were Aaron M. Powell of Ghent, N. Y., and Wendell P. Garrison of Boston, a son of the chairman, and whose initials earry with them the name of Wendell Phillips. Mr. Phillips was not present—to the disappointment of his friends and of himself. Letters were read from Arthur Tappan, who generously gave money for the release of Mr. Garrison when imprisoned years ago in Baltimore, and whose name, spoken gratefully by the chairman, was honored with a simultaneous burst of applause in all parts of the house; from Rev. David Thurston and Hon. Samuel Fessenden, two venerable men of Maine; from Joshua R. Giddings, one of the best of good soldiers in the cause of Freedom; from Charles Sumner, Owen Lovejoy, Gratz Brown, John Rankin, Rev. O. B. Frothingham of New York, Rev. James Freeman Clarke of Boston, George, W. Curtis, Rev. S. s. Jocelyn of the American Missionary Association, and others. Some of these letters were eloquent and touching, exciting the sympathies of the audience to repeated applause. During the reading, a company of Living Epistles, in the shape of a squad of black soldiers, consisting of sergeants and corpora's of the 8th United States Colored regiment stationed at Camp William Penn, entered the house, and amid boisterous cheers took seats of honor upon the platform. Mr. Garrison gave them welcome in a few sublime words, touching all hearts. These men, dressed in the United States uuiform, and expecting soon to march to the field of bloody battle against the same institution of slavery for whose peaceful overthrow this society has labored—were living witnesses how great a progress the good cause has made in thirty years. Rev. Dr. Furness, of Philadelphia, read the original Declaration of Sentiments, and by his peculiarly emphatic and fervid utterance gave to a printed document the glow of an extemporaneous speech. Oh, for more good readers on platforms and in pulpits! Then followed speeches. So numerous were the speakers that they were enough to have made an audience of themselves. The fifteen minute rule—which Mr. S. S. Foster happily proposed—gave everybody a chance who wanted to speak. And such a succession of fitting speeches— so full of force, fire, and Sympathy, mingling argument, wit, anecdote, and illustration—in short, marked with all the qualities which render an anti-slavery speech, if well done, one of the highest possible exhibitions of human eloquence—crowned the convention as one of the most impressive ever held within the memory of its oldest members. Mr. Garrison gave an address of welcome, and one of farewell. Mr. McKim, Miss Mary Grew, Rev. Samuel J. May, and Mrs. Lucretia Mott occupied an afternoon with reminiscences of early days—a prolonged story-telling wbicb was at times irresistibly ludicrous, and at others solemn and tender. Rev. Henry Ward Beecher fulfilled the proverb, " The morning hour brings gold in its mouth," by making an early morning speech wbicb was as good as gold. He was followed by Susan B. Anthony, Charles C. Borleigh, Stephen S. Foster, Aaron M. Powell, Abby Kelley Foster, Lucy Stone, (who, after her long silence, spoke as naturally as if she had never lost a day's practice,) Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Col. Lewis Wagner, commander of the colored troops on the platform, Oliver Johnson, editor of the Anli-Slavery Standard, and several others whose names escape my pen in this harried writing. The closing session, which was densely crowded by a brilliant audience, filling every square inch of sitting or standing room—was addressed by Robert Purvis, Theodore Tilton, Senator Wilson, Frederick Douglass, Anna Dickinson, and William Lloyd Garrison. I call it a special good fortune, in an Anti-Slavery Convention, if the best speech is made by a black man—and wben I say that the best of all the speeches was the one by Frederick Douglas, I am only saying what ought always to be true—that though white men and women may speak eloquently for the negro, the negro, after all, should speak more eloquently for himself. George Thompson in England —to whom be all praise for his noble work in the American cause—was thanked by public vote of the convention for his public course; and in view of his expected arrival in this country, was greeted with a shout of welcome in advance. I have no time to chronicle any of the pleasant thoughts and feelings with which, during these two memorable days, my mind has been crowded; though to pass through such a series of meetings—exhausting one's body and spirit by their over-refreshment and multifarious good-cheer—is like walking through garden of roses till, over-filled and wearied with too many sweet odors, one gladly makes an end of so much pleasantness. So your correspondent, after having sufficiently fatigued himself, (and your readers?) here shuts the garden gate.
GRAYBEARD. 
LETTER FROM HON. M. F. CONWAY. 
LAWRENCE, (Kansas,) Nov. 20,1863. DEAR SIR: I am in due receipt of your kind invitation to attend the 30th Anniversary Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society; and nothing would afford me more gratification than to accept it But my duties here forbid my leaving the State at this time; and therefore I must forego the genuine pleasure it would give me to be with you on that interesting occasion. 
Though not a member of the American Anti-Slavery Society, I am a believer in it. I was never a member of any anti-slavery organization until i name to K- and united with the- people in the formation t£ d» Fie* State party. A native of 
<c04>
Maryland, and brought up in a part of the State where slavery was never very strong, but where enough of it existed to enable me to learn, by actual observation, what it was, I think I present an example of natural and spontaneous anti-slavery growth unaffected by any artificial stimulant. In other words, I judge myself a self-made anti-slavery man, as far as it is possible for any one to be such: and in the unprejudiced and independent spirit of such a character, I recognize in the American Anti-Slavery Society the primal agent in the regeneration of the American nation which is now in progress. 
This Society started out with the proposition that slavery was wrong, and ought to be abolished; and it went to work in a very exemplary manner to effect that object. In the enterprise was involved a revolution. Slavery could not be abolished as long as the nation was constituted on a pro-slavery basis, because thus the nation stood between slavery and the Abolitionists— bound by the law of its having to maintain it, and put them down. To enable the Abolitionists (using the name in no technical or exclusive sense) to reach slavery in a manner to destroy it, the nation must first be revolutionized and reconstituted on an anti-slavery basis; and this involved first a convulsion of the moral elements of the nation, and then a convulsion of its physical elements—first agitation, and then war—first a revolution in sentiment, and then a revolution in government—the one consequent upon the other, and both essential to the attainment of the end proposed. The existing war was, therefore, originally involved in the same grand impulse out of which grew the American Anti-Slavery Society. The latter was preliminary to the former; and the war is only the anti-slavery cause in a more advanced stage of development. The Army and Navy of the United States constitute now American Anti-Slavery Societies par excellence!
On the proper direction of the war depends, of course, the success or non-success of the great cause. 
In accordance with these views, I am free to say that I had no heart in this war but as it seemed to me calculated to accomplish an absolute anti-slavery victory. In this respect I was constrained to differ from many of my friends. But it was impossible for me to do otherwise. I condemn war on general principles, and can only endorse it in behalf and for the behalf of a sacred cause. Considering this war as waged only to make good a claim of authority resting upon some attenuated abstraction of constitutional law— as a brutal and bloody encounter between slaveholders for dominion—my soul would shrink from it with abhorrence, as a monstrous crime against God. As such I could not but regard it as a flagrant and frightful perversion of an awful instrument of Divine goodness to an end of unparalleled wickedness. And, therefore, I have sought, in the exercise of such limited influence as I have, in one way and another, possessed, to prevent its being turned in a direction so challenging the condemnation of mankind and of Heaven. 
But it is a source of extreme felicity that the war, through the over-ruling power of the Almighty— who is not "always on the side of the heaviest battalions"— is now adjusting itself to the great principle for the establishment of which it was permitted to be developed. 
The war has substantially nationalized the North, and de-nationalized the South. And by thus constituting the North the nation, it has given to liberty the power wherewith to conquer slavery. And no matter what may be the vicissitudes of the conflict, the ultimate triumph of liberty is assured. Thank God 1 the future is ours! 
But this assurance should in no wise inspire as with indifference to the progress of events. We must not suppose that our part of the work is finished. The American Anti-Slavery Society must not think of retiring from the field for many a long day yet. The future is ours; but we must do the work necessary to perfect the result. 
Principles control events, though principles which are not recognized may sometimes be too strong for those that are We have seen how the North, though unrecognized, has assumed nationality,—in spite of the principle upon which the war was being waged, of the inviolability of the original system, through which Southern nationality prevailed. But the fact should not only exist as such, but to make it permanently secure, it should be acknowledged in principle.
It is necessary and proper, therefore, that the government should recognize in terms the fact that the nation consists exclusively of the loyal States, and that the seceded States are a separate body, to be conquered and resumed by the nation upon its new basis. 
The substitution of this principle, for the one the government has heretofore acted on, is important to the completion of our triumph, and should be pressed upon the Administration in every possible manner. 
It is supposed that, upon reducing the rebellion, we may go in to the seceded States, following the old system, recognizing the powers with which by that system they were invested, and re-build upon an anti-slavery basis. But I warn the nation against this insidious measure. We cannot succeed in that way; it is impossible. We cannot re-build in the seceded States, in the lifetime of the present generation, without embodying in the political organization the elements which now make up the life of the rebellion. The recent letter of Mr. Solicitor Whiting on this point is admirable and conclusive. Shall we confer the power which the Federal Constitution gave to the seceded States, when they were in the Union, upon such men as are now fighting the battles of the South, with the expectation that they will exert that power to perfect the result of our anti-slavery movement? This is undoubtedly the stupidest idea of the day. The very moment these men should again come into our government, they would seek to modify and pervert—to neutralize and undo—all that had been accomplished for freedom. They would strive in every way to keep the negroes a degraded and servile class; and for ascendancy would stand as a unit against the anti-slavery party in that behalf. Uniting with their friends and former allies in the North, they would revive the Democratic or organize a new party, and resume their former supremacy. This is, therefore, only another, method of reproducing the old order of things, and defeating the legitimate result of the great progressive movement of the North. 
In my judgment, there is no absolute safety but in following the clearly defined course which it seems to me Providence has marked out for us; namely, to recognize the loyal States as the nation, and the disloyal as a body irrevocably separate and distinct therefrom; and then to conquer the latter, and re-organize it in our own time and upon our own principle. 
Let as not be deceived; let at watch and pray. "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
I cordially reciprocate the generous and heroic sentiment with which you address me, and subscribe myself years "to break every yoke," 
M. F. CONWAY. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Esq. 
<c05>
FROM HON. GEORGE W. JULIAN. 
CENTREVILLE, Ind, Nov. 27, 1863. GENTLEMEN: I have received your letter inviting me to attend your Commemorative Meeting in Philadelphia, on the 3d and 4th of December next, and am sincerely sorry that my engagements will not allow me the pleasure of mingling with you on so interesting an occasion. I have scarcely time even for the brief word of cheer which my heart tells me I ought to send you.
Ten year ago, in a letter then written to your second Decade Meeting, I expressed the opinion that "the providence of God, availing itself of the blindness and wickedness of men," was "hastening on a great crisis in the history of our country," and that the anti-slavery cause was "passing through a transition period, from a feeble and unpopular to a powerful and dominant movement, among the great forces that are shaking the world." Time has proved that I was right. When the slave power abandoned its warfare against freedom through its ordinary weapons and its recognized political machinery, and made an infernal leap at the nation's throat, it did more for our country than the wisdom of our statesmenship, the power of oar philanthropy, or the virtue of the people could have accomplished for generations to come. The Republic is to-day receiving the remission of its sins through the baptism of fire and blood which it has been compelled to accept. Without the mighty help of this rebellion, the slave interest, enthroned in Congress and on the Supreme Bench, and holding in check the Executive, would now have held complete mastery over these States. But for this revolt, drawing with it the rebel power from Congress, the Pacific Railroad Bill could not have been enacted; polygamy in Utah could not have been abolished; the Homestead Bill would have failed; slavery in the District of Columbia would have continued; the territories of the United States, as to which Congressional intervention had been abandoned, would have been handed over to the tender mercies of "popular sovereignty," as interpreted by a slave-breeding Supreme Court; the Fugitive Slave Act would have continued in full force; the late action of Congress and the Executive giving freedom to three and a half million slaves, and allowing the negro to fight for his freedom and his country, and thus make sure his enfranchisement, would have been impossible; and in order to placate the rebel power and live with our "Southern brethren" in peace, an amendment to the Constitution would have been carried, tieing up the hands of the people forever against the right to abolish slavery in the States of the South. Without the saving grace of this civil war, I greatly fear our Union would have become a confederacy of corsairs, devouring humanity, defying God, exalting the devil, and gladdening the heart of every absolutist throughout the earth. Shall we not return thanks? 
And the blessed work upon which the government and people have entered since the beginning of the rebellion, and by its help, cannot stop here. That the action of Congress and the Executive, already referred to, will be made sure and effective by a law of Congress totally abolishing slavery, is now far more probable than were the facts of to-day two years ago. This rebellion, born of slavery, will not be crushed without crushing forever its cause. The rebel States, in some form, will be placed under the pupilage of Congress, till they shall be qualified for recognition as free States. Not only will slavery be utterly destroyed, but adequate measures will be taken to prohibit it, henceforth and forever, in all the States of the Union. This will be done, either by an amendment of the Constitution, or by a just interpretation of its clauses guaranteeing republican governments to the States, and providing that no man shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law. 
Such are some of the compensations of this war, which we are to set down in the credit column of our account current with the rebels. Their madness has been our salvation—a "fetch upon Divine providence" in saving our land from destruction. Their unmatched conspiracy against civilization and the rights of man, so luxuriant in its diabolism, so sublimely infernal in all its phases, has set even conservatives and doughfaces to thinking, and roused up consciences long since regarded as dead and buried. Slavery, painting its own character in the flames of civil war and National Murder, has compelled every man to become an Abolitionist who is not a traitor. While treason and slavery are fitly joined in wedlock, loyalty and Abolitionism are convertible terms. Ideas and words are being revolutionized, as well as political balances. In the nomenclature of American politics, after the coronation of Liberty in our land, "Abolition" and "radical" will be chosen and precious words, "sweeter than honey on the lips of men;" whilst "compromise and "conservatism" will be consigned to the limbo of whatever remains of cowardice, slavery, and treason. Men also will change places. Decency and manhood will be current coin in the commerce of public life. The defenders of slavery and its apologists will gravitate to their true level, whilst conspicuous rebel sympathizers will be scourged from the land, or creep to their political graves. Nor will history fail to crown with preeminent and signal honors the Abolitionists of the United States, whose courage, constancy and faith, bidding defiance to proscription, persecution and death, have kept alive among the people that spirit of liberty, without which the slave power would have mounted to absolute dominion over the republic.
Wishing your meeting great success and usefulness, I am, very truly yours, 
GEO. W. JULIAN. 
FKOM HON. NATHANIEL H. WHITING. 
BOSTON, Nov. 28, 1863. MT DEAR FRIEND: Your letter of invitation to attend the Thirtieth Anniversary of the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society at Philadelphia, on the 3d and 4th of Dec. next, was duly received, and it would afford me great pleasure to avail myself of such an opportunity to visit the city of Brotherly Love, and mingle with you in the congratulations with which the old and tried veterans of our moral warfare will hail the dawn of the glorious sunlight of liberty in our guilty, and therefore stricken tend. But my home duties will deprive me of that enjoyment. The apology of a letter is all I can offer to swell the grand chorus which will go up from thousands of hearts in thanksgiving and hope for that near future, when we trust the clanking of chains will no longer be heard—when, in the tardy repentance which it being wrung from us by such awful sacrifice and suffering, we shall strive to make some amends for the foul wrong we have done to our common human nature in the person of the negro,
"And in the blood our hearts have spilt,
Wash oat the long arrears of guilt."
Your work it nearly completed for which you blew that bugle blast more than a generation ago, warning the nation of the doom to which it was <illegible> and summoning the good and true
<c06>
to the rescue of imperilled and betrayed Liberty in whose behalf you then resolved to be "as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice." Certainly, nothing less could have saved us. the trumpet has been heard. The shock of battle is upon us. The walls of the towering Jericho are tumbling down. But this desperate and convulsive struggle shows us that the warning voice came not a moment too soon—that the fangs of the serpent had touched the vital currents, and nearly paralyzed the presiding centers of organic life. It now appears as if you were " just in time," and that the Divine obstinacy with which you have stood to your guns, "not retreating a single inch" through all these stormy and eventful years, has secured our salvation even "as by fire." I have said the work to which you specially pledged yourself in your early manhood is drawing rapidly to a close. What was that work? This, namely, that there is something in every man, constituting the inherent, essential qualities of his human nature, which belongs to him, and which can never rightfully be made a subject of barter and sale, and to which he has a clear and indefeasible title now and forever—from birth till death, and through the whole cycle of eternity. It furnishes the only basis of all legitimate government—of justice, love, mercy, and hope of life immortal. To deny this is to deny everything—to cast us out on the tempestuous sea of human life without chart or compass—at the mercy of every wind which unhallowed ambition, cupidity and hate may blow upon us—leaving as literally without God, and without hope in the world. Standing on this primal, fundamental truth, the key to all that is noble and aspiring in man's character and destiny, it may well be said that "Slavery is the sum of all villanies," and that its advocates are logically capable of committing any crime that has ever been perpetrated or conceived since the world began.
Our people stand aghast at the reported torture and starvation of the prisoners at Richmond, the wholesale murder of our colored soldiers and their officers when falling into the hands of the rebels, and at the stories of violated paroles and the stealing of articles sent by their permission from the loyal States, to relieve our perishing brothers in their loathsome dungeons; as if anything better could be expected of a people who have reduced cruelty, robbery and murder to a science, whose "divine right" is the corner-stone of their hell-born "Confederacy." No! Instead of wondering at any cruelty or breach of plighted faith which the rebels may display, we should regard this as but the natural rule of conduct among those who would destroy a beneficent government for the purpose of founding an empire on a basis more infernal than that spirit which ruled Tamerlane when he reared his pyramid of human skulls on the plains of Damascus. The devil that has so long possessed this people is now being cast out. He will rend us in departing, and it is possible the patient may be taken up for dead; but the new birth into universal liberty shall insure for as and for our children a long and brilliant future of prosperity, freedom and happiness.
"Not as we hoped, in calm of prayer,
The message of deliverance comes;
But heralded by roll of drums,
On waves of battle-troubled air.
"Not as we hoped: but what are we!
Above our broken dreams and plans 
God lays, with wiser hand than man's,
The corner-stones of liberty. 
"I cavil not with Him—the voice
That Freedom's blessed gospel tells,
Is sweet to me as silver bells:
Rejoicing, yea, I will rejoice."
As you gather the remnant of that small but noble band who signed the “Declaration of Sentiments" at Philadelphia thirty years ago, with others, representatives of the many thousands who have since joined the army of freedom as it has gone "marching on," you have the assurance of an early triumph of those principles for which you have faithfully lived, and so many have gloriously died. 
"Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more”.
For even now, on the ruins of the old barbarism, blossoms of the new civilization are beginning to bourgeon from our national tree, and are rich with the promise of immortal fruit.
Yours, in the light of the new dawn, 

N. H. WHITING. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
FROM REV. A. BATTLES.
BANGOR, Me., Nov. 27, 1863. Mr DEAR MR. GARRISON: I thank you for the invitation to attend the approaching anti-slavery meeting in Philadelphia. I cannot say how glad I should be to accept it. I was not old enough, if I had been so inclined, to share in the honor of helping organize your Society; but for the last fifteen years, I have been so thoroughly in sympathy with its objects that I should like to share in your rejoicings next week, over the prospect that your week is so nearly completed, at an Anti-Slavery Society. I must forego that pleasure, however. 
In 1833, you and your coadjutors gathered in Philadelphia to devise measures looking to the overthrow of slavery in this nation. For thirty years you have warred with its terrible forces. With the Church and State, with commerce and the Social forces of the land against you, with almost all, indeed, against you but Heavens's infinite Love and Justice, you have bravely borne the heat and the burden of the day; and now, in 1863, you are to come together to thank God that a way-different, it is true, from what you expected and prayed for, yet in a great measure through your cooperation—has been opened for the oppressed to go free. 
The slaveholders of our country threw themselves squarely upon the atrocious principle that man can hold property in man, and with a zeal equalled only by their audacity, made issue with God and his justice, denying the rights of humanity, and even striving in their wrath to dethrone the Almighty. As might have bean expected, they have signally failed. The very measures they put forth to strengthen their cause have hastened its overthrow. Cotton is not king. Slavery does not rule the land. This is not man's doing but God's. To him be the thanks. 
Affairs are still much out of joint, but they are coming into order. Principles, heretofore rejected of men, are being acknowledged. Names before misapplied are getting rightly placed. Abolitionists have been derisively called destructive radicals by those who have claimed the more respectable name of conservative. But people are now seeing that the radical is the conservative. Jesus was a radical, yet his principles were "the salt of the earth" Luther was a radical, but his movement prevented religion from going to decay. John Adams and John Hancock were radicals, yet who, more than they, conserved the liberties of the colonies? So the Abolitionists of the United States, though intensely radical,—for they apply the axe to 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authorities takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions , and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that the states where slavery exist have the exclusive management of the subjects, not only the PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of war. CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONFRESS extend to interference with the institutions of slavery, IN EVERY WAR IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, From a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cessions of states, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of the war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory"—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be root of the tree, are also conservative. They have been seeking to preserve in the life of our nation, those principles without which a State rests a on a sandy foundation. You will commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of your organization surrounded by the cheering signs that this fact is being recognized.
Men are coming to perceive, also, the righteousness of abolitionism. The black man is getting to be recognized as a man.
For all this, let us thank God and take courage, and continue to work and to pray until we have a State founded on the principles of Christian Democracy.
Yours most cordially for the rights of man,
A. BATTLES.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1863
THIRD DECADE OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Phonographically Reported by HENRY M. PARKHURST.]
SPEECH OF J. MILLER McKIM.
I comply cheerfully with your request, Mr. Chairman, though the task it assigns me is not in all respects an easy one. To look back upon the origin of this Society, and run the eye down its course to the present time, and then submit the reminiscences suggested; and to do it all in the space of a single short speech, is a task requiring powers of condensation beyond my pretensions.
There is another difficulty about it. To give an account of a movement with which one’s own personal history—at least in his own mind—is inseparably identified, without violating one of the first rules of good taste in a speaker, demands a degree of phraseological skill which but few possess. The word I is perhaps the ugliest as well as the shortest in the English language. It is a word which careful parents teach their children never to use—either in the nominative, possessive or objective case—except on compulsion. And yet it is a word without which I cannot possibly get on in the duty yon have assigned me.
But having accepted my part, I accept also its conditions. And this I do all the more readily from certain advantages likely to accrue from it. "From one learn all," the adage says. The history of one Abolitionist, howsoever humble, even though it be for a day, is the history, to that extent, of every other Abolitionist—and of the cause. There are people here, doubtless, who are ignorant of the character of Abolitionism and Abolitionists. Let us for once, Mr. Chairman, give them an inside view. Let as lay aside reserve, and speak with a freedom which in other circumstances would hardly be justifiable.
Thirty-one years ago, this witness was a student at Andover Theological Seminary. While there, a desire, which, for more than a year, had consumed him, culminated into a purpose. In the depths of his soul and before God he consecrated himself to the work of a missionary among the heathen. What his precise motives were, it is not necessary here to inquire. That they were of a mixed character, partaking not a little of the ardor and romance of youth, subsequent reflection has left no room to doubt.
There was another student at the Seminary, whose views and feelings were in harmony with my own, and who joined in this vow of self-consecration. His name was Daniel E. Jewett. I mention him for reasons which will presently be obvious.
I had been at Andover but a short time—less than two months—when a severe domestic affliction—the death of my eldest brother—called me away; and I returned to my home in Carlisle, in this State, where I had been born and bred.
For two or three years previous to the period now referred to, the country—a very considerable portion of it—had been in a state of high religious excitement. Everywhere people’s attention was directed with unusual earnestness to the subject of personal religion. Since the days of Whitfield, it was said, there had been no excitement equal to it in depth and intensity, but toward the latter part of 1833 this excitement began to subside. The "revivals," as they were called, which followed this period, and which were got up by the machinery of "protracted meetings" and other appliances, were, for the most part, mere imitations—simulations; without depth and without earnestness.
With the subsidence of this religious excitement in the country, the feelings of the sincere and enlightened who had shared in it began to take a new turn. Their attention was called away from themselves to the condition of others. They had made sufficient progress in the divine life to understand that cardinal injunction: "Let no man seek his own, but every one his neighbor’s weal."
About this time I happened one day, in a barbershop, to pick up a newspaper, the columns of which I found filled with discussions of the subject of slavery. It was a question to which my attention had never before been directed. The paper interested me exceedingly. Its vigor of style and the boldness of its argument were striking. It was The Liberator. I took it home with me, read it carefully, and came back the next day to talk about it. An argument arose between me and the barber, in which that gentleman had greatly the advantage. He gave me a book to take home with me: it was a thick pamphlet, of about the size and appearance of The Atlantic Monthly, and was entitled "Thoughts on Colonization." Its author was Wm. Lloyd Garrison. I read it at one sitting. The scales fell from my eyes. The whole truth was revealed to me. The evil of slavery, the vulgar cruelty of prejudice against color, the duty of the country and of every man in it toward the black man, were as plain as if they had been written out before me in letters of fire. From that time to this, I have been an Abolitionist. From that time to this, I have regarded my friend John Peck, the colored barber, as one of my best benefactors.
In the latter part of 1833,I learned that there was to be a Convention in Philadelphia, for the purpose of forming a National Anti-Slavery Society. This information I derived from my Andover friend, Daniel E. Jewett. He wrote to me, begging that I would come to the meeting. He dwelt feelingly upon the condition of the two and a quarter million (that was the figure then) of our unoffending fellow-men held in bondage, and urged me not to be insensible to their claims. "How do you know, my brother," he said, "that this may not be the work to which you have, unconsciously, dedicated yourself? How do you know that this is not the very field which your yearnings have been foreshadowing.
I laid what he said to heart, and determined to attend the Convention. The little band of pronounced Abolitionists in Carlisle—all of whom were black, except myself—appointed me a delegate, and I set off for the city. It was in the day of stage-coaches, before the new era of railroads, and I was two days in coming. I stopped at the "Indian Queen," in 4th street, then considered one of our best hotels. The style of caravansera known as the "first class hotel" was not then known—out of Boston. Your "Tremont House," I believe, was at that time in the full tide of successful experiment. I lost no time the next morning after my arrival in presenting myself, according to directions, at the house of Friend Evan Lewis in 5th street, above Cherry. Mr. Lewis was editor of a Quaker anti-slavery journal called The Advocate of Truth. He was a faithful friend of the cause, as well as one of the most prominent at that time in Philadelphia. With friend Lewis I went to the Convention. It met at the Adelphic Building in 5th street, below Walnut. Its proceedings were not secret, though: they were, nevertheless, not thrown open by advertisement to the public. There were some sixty or seventy delegates present, and a few spectators, who had been especially invited. A small number, it will be said, for a National Convention, But at that time it must be re-
<c02>
membered the movement was in its incipiency. The cloud of abolitionism was not even so big as a man's hand. Now it covers the heavens!
When I entered the hall-which was on the morning of the second day-the proceedings had begun; though, as I soon learned, there was no specific business before the meeting. A Committee had been appointed the day before, consisting of Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Samuel J. May, Edwin P. Atlee and others, to draw up a Declaration of Sentiments; and the Convention was now expecting their report. While waiting, Dr. Abraham L. Cox read a poem addressed to Garrison, written by John G. Whittier, at that time a young author, comparatively unknown to fame. You remember the piece:
“Champion of those who groan beneath
Oppression's iron hand,
In view of penury, hate and death,
I see thee fearless stand.
“I love thee with a brother’s love;
I feel my pulses thrill
To mark thy spirit soar above
The cloud of human ill."
After the poem, Lewis Tappan arose and delivered a glowing eulogy upon Mr. Garrison. He related two very striking anecdotes, which, though I remember them distinctly, I shall not, in this presence, repeat. He concluded by saying that it had not been his purpose to eulogize Mr. Garrison; that what he said was said in no spirit of panegyric, but as a matter of fidelity to truth and to the cause. Mr. Garrison had been struck at as a representative of the cause. It was our duty, be said, to repel these assaults; to vindicate our faithful pioneer from the calumnies and misrepresentations of the enemy, and to stand by him “through evil report and through good report."
This was the first specimen I had had of what has since been called “mutual admiration.” And here let me say that the charge implied in the use made of this phrase is without just foundation. When Abolitionists praise their representative men, it is for the reason suggested by Mr. Tappan. It is to defend them against the shafts of pro-slavery malice and calumny. It is from a sacred regard to truth and the interests and honor of the cause; and in no spirit of adulation, "mutual" or otherwise.
And-if you will allow me still further to digress—I will add that the charge against us of using needlessly hard and denunciatory language is equally without foundation. Why, sir, last night, while Mr. Garrison was speaking, several gentlemen-new converts to the cause—left the house because the speaker was too tame! Their hate of slavery and slaveholders, and all that belongs to the system, is so intense, that Mr. Garrison’s terms of condemnation were not strong enough to relieve their minds. They are of a class whom the speaker sometimes meets, one of whom on a certain occasion represented himself as belonging to the “Five Nations.” He was a gentlemanly, mild looking person—anything but a savage in appearance-and being asked what he meant by so styling himself, he explained by saying, he was for giving the rebel slaveholders "confiscation, emancipation, ruination, extirpation and damnation."
Parson Brownlow, also a new convert to the cause—the same that once persecuted the saints-is of this class. He is represented as saying that he is “for giving the slaveholding rebels ‘Greek fire’ in this world, and hell fire in the next."
Now, Mr. Chairman, this is not the language nor is it the spirit of the old Abolitionists. The charge of using hard and acrimonious language lies not properly at our door.
But to return from my digression: Mr. Tappan’s speech was interrupted by the announcement that Mr. Garrison and the rest of the Committee were coming in with their report. They had prepared a draft of a Declaration, and it devolved upon Dr. Edwin P. Atlee to read it. After the reading, followed criticism of its contents; or rather criticism of some of its phrases; for, as a whole, the paper commended itself at once to all who heard it. Thomas Shipley, that good man and faithful friend of the slave, objected to the word “man-stealer” as applied indiscriminately to the slaveholders. To this it was replied that the term was an eminently proper one; that it described the exact relation between the master and the slave. It was urged that things should be called by their right names; that Luther had said he would “call a hoe a hoe, and a spade a spade.” Besides, it was added, it was a scriptural phrase, and the chapter and verse were quoted in which it was used. This mollified friend Shipley, though it did not set his mind entirely at rest. At length, some one suggested that the term should be retained, but that it should be preceded by the words, “according to Scripture.” This met the difficulty, and the paper was amended so as to read: “Every American citizen who holds a human being in involuntary bondage as his property, is, according to Scripture, (Exodus 21: 16,) a man-stealer."
Among the speakers, while the Declaration was under discussion, were two who interested me particularly. One was a countryman dressed in the plainest garb, and in appearance otherwise not particularly calculated to excite expectation. His manner was angular, and his rhetoric not what would be called graceful. But his matter was solid, and as clear as a bell. It had the ring of the genuine metal, and was, moreover, pat to the point in question. When he sat down-which he did after a very brief speech-the question was asked: “Who is that?” and the answer came: "Thomas Whitson of Lancaster County, in this State."
The other speaker was a woman. I had never before heard a woman speak at a public meeting. She said but a few words, but these were spoken so modestly, in such sweet tones, and yet withal so decisively, that no one could fail to be pleased. And no one did fail to be pleased. She apologized for what might be regarded as an intrusion; but she was assured by the Chairman and others that what she had said was very acceptable. The Chairman added his hope that “the lady “ would not hesitate to give expression to anything that might occur to her during the course of the proceedings.
This debate on the Declaration took place in Committee of the Whole. After one or two slight verbal changes, the Committee arose and reported the document to the Convention. It was adopted unanimously, and ordered to be engrossed. The next morning, being the last session of the Convention, it was brought in engrossed and ready for signature. Before the work of signing began, it was agreed that it should be read once more. The task was assigned to our friend, Samuel J. May, who performed it with much feeling. At times his emotion was such as to prevent him for awhile from proceeding. The same feeling pervaded the audience. Then followed informally the ceremony of signing. Each one, as he came up to put his name to the instrument, showed by his manner, and, in some instances, by his words, that he was doing a very solemn thing.
By this time I had come to be tolerably well acquainted with the Convention, both as a whole and in its individual members. My part in the proceedings had been, and was to the end, a silent one. The only distinction I enjoyed was that of being the youngest member of the body.
Looking back upon this interesting occasion, the whole thing comes up before me with the distinctness of a picture. I see the Convention just as it sat in that little hall of the Adelphi Building. I see the President, Beriah Green, of Oneida Institute, sitting on an eminence in the west end of the hall; at either side of him the two Secretaries, Lewis Tappan and John G. Whittier.
Mr. Green, though as it proved one of the best men that could have been had for the office, was not the person originally contemplated for Chairman. The Abolitionists at that time, like other people, had an idea that a Convention would not be a Convention without a man with a great name to serve as Chairman. Therefore when the delegates cause to Philadelphia, the first thing they did was to cast about for some man of distinction to preside. They called on Thomas Wister, a venerable and wealthy member of the Society of Friends; but he declined. They then waited 
<c03>
upon Mr. Roberts Vaux, an aged and highly respected citizen, whose social position and reputation as a philanthropist indicated him as a proper person to preside over the meeting. He received the Committee politely, and listened to them courteously. He sympathized with them in their general .object; he was opposed to slavery, and would be glad to see it abolished; but—and then followed the usual objections; and in short, while grateful for the honor rendered him, Mr. Vaux begged leave respectfully to decline.
Discouraged in their attempts to find a great man for Chairman, the delegation concluded to select for this purpose one of their own number; and the choice fell upon Beriah Green. A better man could not have been selected. Though of plain exterior and unimposing presence, Mr. Green was a man of learning and superior ability; in every way above the average of so called men of eminence.
Mr. Tappan, who sat at his right, was a jaunty, man-of-the-world looking person; well dressed and handsome; with a fine voice and taking appearance. Whittier, who sat at his left, was quite as fine looking, though in a different way. He wore a dark frock coat with standing collar, which, with his thin hair, dark and sometimes flashing eyes, and black whiskers-not large, but noticeable in those unhirsute days-gave him, to my then unpractised eye, quite as much of a military as a Quaker aspect. His broad, square fore-head, and well cut features, aided by his incipient reputation as a poet, made him quite a noticeable feature in the Convention.
These were the officers of the meeting; the rest were all upon a dead level of equality. There were no distinctions tolerated among the members. At an early stage of the proceedings, it was determined that no titles should be given or received; no Honorables, Doctors, or Esquires. Men were to be recognized as men, and all factitious distinctions discarded. It was a levelling Convention, in the best sense of that word.
It is impossible, Mr. Chairman, to look back upon those days without noticing that Time, with his remorseless scythe, has been at his inevitable work. Death has thinned our numbers. Some of the best members of that Convention have gone to their rest. Among these was good Thomas Shipley, whose departure Whittier has so beautifully commemorated:
“Gone to thy Heavenly Father’s rest,
The flowers of Eden round thee blowing,
And on thine ear the murmurs blest
Of Siloa’s waters gently flowing.
“O, loved of thousands! to thy grave,
Sorrowing of heart, thy brethren bore thee;
The poor man and the rescued slave
Wept as the broken earth closed o’er thee."
Evan Lewis, another of the Philadelphia delegates, took his departure soon after the holding of the Convention. He was an able and faithful friend of the cause, and performed his part well. Though dead, he yet speaketh. She who was the partner of his toils while he lived, remains to finish the task which they had jointly undertaken; and the mantle of the father has in a good measure fallen upon the shoulders of his children.
Dr. Edwin Atlee, the younger, another Philadelphia member of the Convention, passed early from the scene of conflict. Faithful and true to the cause while he lived, he left, in his good name, an inheritance of which his children may well be proud, and which should ever be a stimulus to them in works of well-doing.
Of the members of the Convention who remain, I shall not speak. Quite a number are here to speak for themselves. Among them I may be excused for mentioning the three who are respectively the President and Vice-Presidents of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society; James Mott, Robert Purvis, and Thomas Whitson.
Mr. Mott, when I saw him at the Adelphi building thirty years ago, was in the prime of manhood. He was tall, and as straight as an arrow; his sandy hair untouched by the frosts of time. Thomas Whitson was also in the prime of life; tall, hearty and progressive. His full shock of stubborn brown hair showed that he had not yet reached the climax of his vigor. He was stalwart in body and robust in mind, and ready for a tussle with any opponent. Mr. Purvis was in the full bloom of opening manhood; ardent, impetuous, and overflowing with enthusiasm. You will remember the speech he made, Mr. Chairman-so exactly like himself. Impassioned, full of invective, bristling with epithets, denouncing “that diabolical and fiendish system of atrocity, American slavery, and that equally rapacious, and, if possible, still more detestable scheme, the infamous Colonization Society.”
At that Convention there were no adjournments for dinner. We sat daily from ten o’clock A. M. till dark, without recess. We had meat to eat which those who have never been “caught up into the third heaven of first principles “wot not of. The last hours of the Convention were especially impressive. I had never before, nor have I ever since, witnessed anything fully equal to it. The deep religious spirit which had pervaded the meeting from the beginning became still deeper. The evidence of the Divine presence and the Divine approval were palpable. Had we heard a voice saying, “Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the ground whereon thou standest is holy ground,” our convictions could scarcely have been clearer.
Those who were there will never forget the address with which President Green closed the Convention. The concluding part of that address was somewhat as follows:
“Brethren, it has been good to be here. In this hallowed atmosphere, I have been revived and refreshed. This brief interview has more than repaid me for all that I have ever suffered. I have here met congenial minds; I have rejoiced in sympathies delightful to the soul. Heart has beat responsive to heart, and the holy work of seeking to benefit the outraged and depised has proved the most blessed employment.
“But now we must retire from these balmy influences, and breathe another atmosphere. The chill hoar frost will be upon us. The storm and tempest will rise, and the waves of persecution will dash against our souls. Let us be prepared for the worst. Let us fasten ourselves to the throne of God as with hooks of steel. If we cling not to Him, our names to that document will be but as dust.
“Let us court no applause; indulge in no spirit of vain boasting. Let us be assured that our only hope in grappling with the bony monster is in an Arm that is stronger than ours. Let us fix our gaze on God, and walk in the light of His countenance. If our cause be just-and we know it is-His omnipotence is pledged to its triumph. Let this cause be entwined around the very fibres of our hearts. Let our hearts grow to it, so that nothing but death can sunder the bond."
As Mr. Green finished, he lifted up his voice in prayer; and such a prayer is rarely heard. Its fervency and faith seemed to illustrate what the speaker had said about “taking hold of the throne as with hooks of steel, ”and “gazing upon the very face of God."
But, Mr. Chairman, I have been speaking for three quarters of an hour, and have as yet scarcely touched the threshold of my subject. Reminiscences! They come upon me so thick and fast that the whole time of this Convention would not suffice to give them expression. Here I have been lingering over a few of the incidents of the first three days of the great anti-slavery epoch; what shall I say of the whole thirty years which have followed, every day of which has been freighted with an event; every hour with some striking incident!
I must now step, and give place to others. I have already consumed more than my fair share of the time. We have more than a score of able speakers here, every one of whom has a prescriptive right to be heard. So, without further words, I abruptly close.
At the request of Mr. Garrison, the signers of the Declaration of Sentiments arose, and the following were found to be present: Isaac Winslow, Orson S. Murray, William Lloyd Garrison, Samuel Joseph May, Robert Purvis, Bartholomew Fussell, Enoch Mack, James Miller McKim, Thomas Whitson, James Mott, James McCrummell.
<c04>
SAMUEL J. MAY.—There were others who were members of the Convention, whose names were not signed to the Declaration; and I look back with a feeling of shame to the fact that there were four or five women—Lucretia Mott, Esther Moore, Lydia White, Sidney Ann Lewis-who did us good service, who spoke, and spoke always to the purpose; and I remember that in one or two instances they relieved us from difficulties into which we had got ourselves in the discussion. Perfectly well I remember them. Why were their names not signed to the Declaration? It shows that we were in the dark on the subject. But their names should always go down to posterity as active members of the Convention; and I desire that they should be remembered as having taken an active and important part with us.
MARY GREW.—Why were their names not signed?
MR. MAY.—Because we had no conception of the rights of women. Because it would then have been thought an impropriety, a thought at which we all laugh now.
MR. GARRISON.—To show the spirit which prevailed in that Convention, of unusual liberality certainly for those times, let me read two resolutions therein adopted:
Resolved, That the cause of Abolition eminently deserves the countenance and support of American women, inasmuch as one million of their colored sisters are pining in abject servitude—as their example and influence operate measurably as laws to society—and as the exertions of the females of Great Britain have been signally instrumental in liberating eight hundred thousand slaves in the Colonies.
Resolved, That we hail the establishment of Ladies’ Anti-Slavery Societies as the harbinger of a brighter day, and that we feel great confidence in the efficiency of their exertions; and that those ladies who have promptly come forth in this great work are deserving the thanks of those who are ready to perish.
You remember that in 1840, our friend, then Miss Abby Kelley, was placed on our Business Committee, and the American Anti-Slavery Society was broken asunder, and almost entirely shipwrecked. But we have got bravely over it; and now there is no question in any part of our county that is free, in regard to the right of woman to speak as freely as man speaks, and to be as freely heard.
LUCRETIA MOTT.—I deem it but just to state, that although we were not recognized as a part of the Convention by signing the document, yet every courtesy was shown to us, every encouragement to speak, or to make any suggestions of alterations in the document, or any others. I do not think it occurred to any one of us at that time, that there would be a propriety in our signing the document. In the evening, at our house, I remember a conversation with our friend Samuel J. May, in the course of which I remarked, that we could not expect that women should be fully recognized in such assemblages as that, while the monopoly of the pulpit existed. It was with diffidence, I acknowledge, that I ventured to express what had been near to my heart for so many years, for I knew that we were there by sufferance. It was after the Convention had gathered on the second day, that the invitation was sent out. Thomas Whitson came to our house with an invitation to women to come there as spectators or as listeners. I felt such a desire that others than those assembled at our own house should hear, that I wanted to go here and there, and notify persons to go; but I was asked not to use up the whole morning in notifying others, for we must try and be there ourselves. When I rose to speak, with the knowledge that we were there by sufferance, and it would be only a liberty granted that I should attempt to express myself, such was the readiness with which that freedom was granted, that it inspired me with a little more boldness to speak on other subjects.
When this Declaration, that has been read to us here to-day, and that we have so often delighted to hear, was under consideration, and we were considering our principles and our intended measures of action ; when our friends felt that they were planting themselves on the truths of Divine Revelation, and on the Declaration of our Independence, as an Everlasting Rock, it seemed to me, as I heard it read, that the climax would be better to transpose the sentence, and place the Declaration of Independence first, and the truths of Divine Revelation last, as the Everlasting Rock; and I proposed it. I remember one of the younger members, Daniel E. Jewett, turning to see what woman there was there, who knew what the word "transpose" meant. (Laughter.)
It has been honestly confessed that there was not at that time a conception of the rights of woman. Indeed, women little knew their influence, or the proper exercise of their own rights. I remember that it was urged upon us, immediately after that Convention, to form a Female Anti-Slavery Society; and at that time I had no idea of the meaning of preambles and resolutions and votings. Women had never been in any assemblies of the kind. I had only attended one Convention-a Convention of colored people in this State-before that; and that was the first time in my life I had ever heard a vote taken, being accustomed to our Quaker way of getting the prevailing sentiment of the meeting. When, a short time after, we came together to form the Female Anti-Slavery Society, which I am rejoiced to say is still extant, still flourishing, there was not a woman capable of taking the chair, and organizing that meeting in due order; and we had to call on James McCrummell, a colored man, to give us aid in the work. You know that at that time, and even to the present day, negroes, idiots and women were in legal documents classed together; so that we were very glad to get one of our own class (laughter) to come and aid us informing that Society.
SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL J. MAY.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY said:—I have also been asked for reminiscences. May I be permitted to commence a little further back than the formation of this Society? The greatest event in my moral or spiritual life occurred on the evening when I first heard our friend William Lloyd Garrison, in Boston, in the Fall of 1830. I was so impressed by his words, that a resolution was formed in my soul from that moment to dedicate myself to the cause of the slave. I was called on to preach in the city of Boston on the following Sunday. I am ashamed to say that I had nothing at all, in any of the sermons I had taken with me, bearing in the least on this great subject. But, fortunately, I had a sermon on Prejudice. So I appended to that hastily, in pencil, an application of the doctrine of the sermon to the condition of the colored people in our country. I delivered the sermon. I will not stop now to describe to you the effect that it had upon the audience. The reminiscence is called to my mind merely by what has been said this afternoon respecting the early influence of woman. The excitement was very great. The minister of the Church was exceedingly angry, and spoke to me in terms of stern reproof, and said I should never enter his pulpit again As I passed out of the house, I saw ‘on all hands that an unusual emotion had been awakend throughout the congregation. When I arrived at the vestibule of the church, I found it well-nigh filled with persons talking busily together about the strange utterance to which they had listened. A woman, pressing through the crowd, stepped up to me, her countenance’ suffused with emotion, the tears trickling down her cheeks, and had the courage to stretch forth her hand to me, and say, "Mr. May, I thank you. What a shame it is that I, who have now been for nearly forty years attending meeting in what are called Christian churches, have never before heard an earnest appeal on behalf of the wronged and outraged colored people of our country." I shall never forget that woman. It was an event that sent deep into my soul that reverence which I now feel for woman. (Applause.)
The first letter that you read this morning brought to my mind another reminiscence which antedates the meeting which formed this Society. Early in the spring of that year, a noble woman, Prudence Crandall, in the town of Canterbury, Conn., in the simplest and most unostentatious manner, led to it by an event which she neither courted nor sought to avoid, proffered her school, which had attained some reputation, to
<c05>
the children of colored persons, and such others as pleased to and their children with them. The excitement can better be imagined than described. The people rose almost in a body, and the poor woman was over- whelmed with expressions of abhorrence and determined opposition. Of course, I went to her, and proffered her such aid as I could give. Without entering into the narrative at all, I will merely say, that in a day or two I found myself solemnly pledged to test the question of that woman’s right under the law to open a school for colored persons—a right which they called in question. I had pledged myself to Andrew T. Judson, afterwards one of the Judges of the Court of the United States, who was her principal persecutor, to try that question from the lowest Court in Canterbury, to the highest Court in the United States. He said tauntingly to me, “He! he!. Do you know what you undertake!" "Perhaps I don’t," was my reply. "It will cost you money—a vast deal of money." "It may," said I. I had not consulted an individual, excepting only my friend, that most excellent man, George Benson, the father of Mrs. Garrison. Said I, "So sure am I that the aim of this movement will be justly appreciated by philanthropists throughout our country, that I shall have all the money I want." I confess, however, to a little trembling after a time, when not an individual offered me a dollar to sustain me in that trial.
A few days brought me a letter from Arthur Tappan. The story had got into the newspapers, and was noised abroad. Arthur Tappan I had known in my childhood, but had not seen him for many years. He had then become a very wealthy man, wielding, it was said, something like $1,700,000. It was a very cordial letter, saying in substance, “I have heard of what you have undertaken; I heartily approve of it. If I am not mistaken, you have not the means to spare to carry on the trial that you have invoked. I therefore beg you to consider me as your banker, who will honor all your drafts." (Applause.) I confess, Mr. President, I could hardly keep on my feet, walking with $1,700,000 in my bank. But I will not go on with the story, it is very long. I will merely say that after two years of controversy that cost over $600, which was readily paid by Mr. Tappan, the result of that controversy was in favor of Miss Crandall. (Applause.) 
MR. GARRISON—I happen to have here a volume from which I will read a paragraph:-
"THE BLACK LAW OF CONNECTICUT. We neglected, in our last, to mention that Miss Crandall, for a violation of the notorious statute of Connecticut, in continuing to instruct colored children, had been arrested and carried before a Justice of the Peace, by whom she was committed to jail to take her trial at the ensuing court. She was confined in the same room which was occupied by the murderer Watkins during the last days of his life."
MR. MAY—I must confess to a little management about that. Of course, if any one of us had come forward and given bonds for Miss Crandall, she would not have been incarcerated. But I went, assisted by my friend Mr. George Benson, diligently around among my friends, and instructed them that no one should give bonds. The law was an expost facto one. It was enacted by the Legislature of Connecticut after the school was commenced. Nevertheless, they prosecuted her under that law, and I received due information that the trial was to take place. I said, "Very well, you can let it go on if you will. "Presently came a messenger, informing me that the Judge had found her guilty, and that they wanted some one to give bonds. "Very well, you can give bonds; there are enough of you in Canterbury to do it.” Then they wanted to know if I would not. “Certainly not," said I; “I have something else to do besides giving bonds." Miss Crandall understood what was to be done. I wanted to let the people know how odious the law was; and if her bonds had been but a cent, I should not have given them. They came to me a second time; but I said, “It is useless; I shall give no bonds." Presently the report came that the sheriff was approaching the town where the jail was, with Miss Crandall. Meanwhile I had had the cell, where Watkins had been lately confined, nicely cleaned and whitewashed, and had a comfortable bed put in it, and one of Mrs. Garrison’s sisters, Miss Anne Benson, consented to go and spend the night with Miss Crandall. So the Sheriff brought up Miss Crandall, and I found opportunity to whisper to her, “Are you afraid?" "No," said she, "I am trembling lest they should n’t put me in." (Applause.) Then they came to me again, and said, “It is only five miles; if you will get some one to give bonds, I will go and get the Judge." “My dear friend," said I, “if the Judge was here, and the bonds were a cent, I should not give them, nor would anybody else if I could prevent it. If you want to avert the imprisonment, you have only to give bonds yourselves. Let A. T. Judson, or somebody else, give bonds for her." But they were too stuffy for that, and foolishly said, “Put her in." She was put in; and when the key was turned, and taken out of the lock, the game was in my hands. Of course, it was announced in all the papers that, for keeping a school for colored girls in the State of Connecticut, that boasted itself more than all the States of its large appropriations for the universal education of the people, a noble young woman had been incarcerated in the cell of a murderer. You manage a newspaper, brother, and you know how such things sound. The tale went the country over.
The next day we let Miss Crandall out; and I took my horse and chaise, and my wife and children, and went off and refreshed myself with a little journey, knowing that the matter would work exactly as I intended it should.
That is a reminiscence. I am thirty years older than I was thirty years ago, and getting a little into that period of life when we are apt to become garrulous; so you must stop me if I say too much. But I wished to do this justice to Arthur Tappan. I do not know that the part he took in it was ever announced before. Think of it! He sent me word to employ the best counsel; and so I did. William W. Ellsworth, afterwards Governor of the State, was one of my counsel; and Calvin Goddard, formerly one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, was another. They were among the most distinguished lawyers of the State. They were very generous. They did not charge me what they might have done. Nevertheless, the expenses on the whole amounted to over $600, all of which were paid by Mr.Tappan.
Nor is that all. The papers of the county all refused, although filled with the most egregious misrepresentations of Miss Crandall, of the purposes of her school, and of the intentions of her patrons and friends, to allow me a line for explanation. Even one of the papers whose editor I had assisted in getting up his paper, told me that he could not; that it would be the destruction of his paper to admit anything upon the subject excepting what our opponents might send. Of course, I was somewhat disturbed at this. I wrote a letter to Mr. Tappan, saying that I would see him if I could escape from my engagements long enough, but the pressure on me was very heavy. Two days after, who should enter my study but Arthur Tappan, leaving his immense business, his large monetary concerns in New York, to come and see me because I could not go to see him! After I had laid the matter before him, he said to me, “Start another paper." It so happened that there were types and an unused press in town; and I went as soon as he had left, and engaged it for a year, and started my paper, called The Unionist.
And here comes another reminiscence. I had been so happy as once to hear our friend Charles C. Burleigh speak in a public meeting, and to hear him once was enough to know there was something in him. I was not only then in charge of a parish which required the full exercise of the little ability that I had, but I was also conducting a religious paper, in which, unfortunately, in the prospectus, not foreseeing what would occur, I had pledged myself that there should be nothing of personal or local controversy admitted. So that, although I was editing a paper, I could not defend myself in it against these assaults of my  <illegible>, consistently with my prospectus. There-
<c06>
fore Mr. Tappan told me to start another paper. But I could not carry on two papers. So I bethought me of this young man, Charles C. Burleigh, and harnessed my horse and went after him. It was on Friday, in the midst of haying time. A very busy week he had of it, and although he then believed in shaving, he had not shaved himself since the haying season commenced. I went to the house of his excellent father, and inquired for Charles. "He is in the hay-field, as busy as he can be.” Nevertheless, I must see him; and I sent for him, and up he came, and I am sure he looked as much like the son of Jesse when he came to Samuel of old to be anointed, as David did himself. Nevertheless, I saw that it was Charles, Burleigh, and I told him what I wanted. He engaged to be with me the next Monday morning, and he was; he did good service in the cause. He wrote himself into a reputation that has been, I believe, increasing over since, as a writer and as a speaker.
You see, Mr. President, you tapped rather a full cask. That is a reminiscence I had no thought of bringing up. But now, to come back to the Convention, where you wanted me to begin. I said to my brother Johnson, while brother McKim was speaking, that I thought his introduction was a little too long; mine has been longer, so he must forgive me. And now I will give you a reminiscence about him. He came all the way from Andover to the Convention-
Mr. McKIM—No, I came from Carlisle; I was only six weeks at Andover.
Mr. MAY—At any rate, he was a simon pure, blue Presbyterian, I suppose. But his heart was moved in the cause of humanity, and that turned the sourest of his dogmas to sweet. After we had been in session two days together, and were coming out of the Convention in the evening, I felt a grip on my arm, and heard brother McKim ask—"Brother May, are you a Unitarian?" "Yes," said I, "I am as much of a Unitarian as I am an Abolitionist."  "Well, I never expected to feel towards a Unitarian as I do towards you" (laughter). I believe the hearts of all present at that meeting were drawn together with an affection that can never die out so long as we live. The countenances of the friends that were there then cheer my heart as no other countenances in this world could. They bring back to my recollection that meeting in the midst of the most malignant opposition. When I read the Press this morning, speaking so kindly, cordially, admiringly of Mr. Garrison, I could not help thinking of the announcement in the papers on the morning of the day that our Convention commenced thirty years ago. We were spoken of singly, some half dozen or more of us, and to each name was appended some epithet, intended, doubtless, as it was adapted, to awaken the malignant hatred of the community. The Police gave us to understand that they could not protect us in the evening, and that our meetings must be held during the daylight. So we met in the morning at 9, and adjourned at sundown. I very well remember that my name was announced as the "Rev. Dr. May of Connecticut, the leader of the amalgamationists." That title was assigned me in consequence of a discussion which I had had in Connecticut with Andrew T. Judson, which had been reported in the papers, and in which he thought, in the presence of a large assembly, to put me down by asking, "Sir, I want to know whether you are willing that your daughter should marry a nigger?" Of course, the audience were as silent as possible to hear my answer. Said I, "I am not willing that my daughter, my only daughter, should marry any unfortunate man. I regard the colored men of our country as most unfortunate men; and therefore I should not be willing that she should marry one."  There was a chuckling in the audience and a smile of triumph on many faces. Said I, "Stop; I have given you only half the answer. If you wish me to say whether I would rather my daughter should marry a man every way adapted to her, the only objection to whom should be his complexion, or should marry a man whose only recommendation to her should be his complexion, of course I should say, let her a thousand times rather marry the blackest man that you could find." (Applause.) It was because of that answer, which went through the papers at the time, that I was trumpeted here as the "leader of the amalgamationists." That is another reminiscence.
I gave so full an account, ten years ago, of my recollections of our meeting at the formation of the Society, that I am afraid I shall repeat myself if I go on much longer in this strain. I wish I could remember one of the brothers who rose in the midst of the Convention, and said, in reply to a suggestion for the softening of some of our measures, "Can you draw out Leviathan with a hook, or the great sea-serpent with a pin-hook?" Of course, that settled the question!
But I will not detain you longer. I will only set myself right on the Woman question. When I first heard that Angelina Grimke was lecturing in New York, I was a minister in South Scituate, Mass. She was lecturing to crowded audiences of men and women indiscriminately, and, of course, I was very much shocked. But in connection with the account of her large audiences, and the composition of her audiences, were statements of the immense power with which she spoke. I took the two facts with me into my study, and sat down and looked them fully in the face. A woman was addressing promiscuous audiences with immense power. Said I to myself, Whence came that power? Is a God-given power in woman, any more than in man, to be unused? Does He give her talents to be wrapped in a napkin or buried in the ground, my more than to man? Certainly not; and the difficulty was dispelled from my mind. So I sat down and wrote her a letter:
"DEAR MISS GRIMKE: I hear you have been addressing promiscuous audiences. I am astonished; it is in such utter violation of all that we have considered proper and decorous and becoming in your sex. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that it is a prejudice, and I beg you to come to my home, and assist me as soon as possible to trample it under my feet."
She came. Meanwhile I had given notice in different parts of the town where I lived, that she would address a meeting in my meeting-house first, and in another meeting-house afterwards, and so through the county. I took her and her sister all through the county, lecturing wherever a wherever a meeting-house could be found in which the could be heard; and an impression was made in that county which I trust is susceptible to this day. Is there a county in the State of Massachusetts that is more truly anti-slavery than Plymouth county? If there is, I know it not. I remember at one of the meetings some gentlemen living in Hingham had said very hard things about me. They appeared at the door, and presently they came further in. I watched them. Very soon their attention was arrested, enchained. They drew nearer and nearer, and I saw their countenances lighted up with emotion; and I was satisfied that they had felt the power of the speakers. When the meeting was over, they came bristling up to me: "What are you going about the country with these women for, setting at naught all the usages and proprieties of society! But we wish you to bring them to Hingham as soon as you please;" and so a meeting was held in Hingham, the most important town in the County excepting Plymouth; and there Miss Grimke made one of her grandest speeches; which, however, I am sorry to say, caused her a long fit of sickness and obliged her to suspend her invaluable labors.
An allusion has been made to-night to the mob of Oct. 21, 1835, in Boston. It is a fact that you may not all be aware of, showing the almost complete universality of the feeling which permeated the people of our country in regard to the Abolitionists as the enemies of the public, that, on that very day, Beriah Green, Gerrit Smith, and several others of the leading Abolitionists of New York, were undergoing us Utica the same treatment almost that Mr. Garrison received. And on that same day I was myself mobbed, my person attacked, and my life threatened, in the village of Moutpelier, the Capital of Vermont. On one and the same day, in three different States of the Union, at the North, Abolitionists were being mobbed, simply for proclaiming the glorious truths of the Declaration, and insisting upon their application
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
to all men. And this reminds me of one more reminiscence, with which I will close.
For several years after I became acquainted with those "pestilent men" who have turned the world up-side down, so that it now stands right side up, I devoted the greater part of my time to lecturing; and there is a fact I should like to have you all remember, to show you how naughty we were in the outset of our movement. More than a dozen times, as I approached a village to lecture, I would meet some prominent man, or after I got there he would call upon me at the hotel and say: "Mr. May, you have come to give a lecture on slavery in our village?" "Yes, sir, I propose do so." "Do you know that this question of slavery was considered by the framers of the Constitution of our country, and that they adjusted it?" "Sir, I replied, "did you ever read the Constitution of the United States?" "You don’t pretend to deny, Mr. May-" "Did you ever read the Constitution of the United States?" "Why, sir, everybody-" "Did you ever read the Constitution of the United States?" And certainly more than a dozen times I found men, holding high positions in society, who acknowledged that they had never read the Constitution! I reported it to the managers of our Society, in Boston, and one of the naughty things that we did at that time was to publish a cheap edition of the Constitution of the United States, and circulate it as one of our anti-slavery tracts. Do we not deserve all the harsh epithets with which we have been visited? (Laughter and applause.)
The Society adjourned, to meet the next day, at 10 A.M.

SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON,
Delivered in Concert Hall, Philadelphia, on the Thirtieth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, Friday Evening, December 4, 1863.
MR. PRESIDENT:-I came here to look into the faces and to hear the voices of the honored men who, thirty years ago, laid the foundations of the anti-slavery movement in America, upon the rights of human nature, and the laws of the living God. Passing on to the post of duty assigned me in the councils of the Republic, I gladly pause to-day to pay the tribute of my sincere respect, gratitude, and admiration, to the men, and the women too, of the American Anti-Slavery Society, who, for a generation, have vindicated the proscribed cause of the bondmen of Christian America, with a fidelity unsurpassed in any age or nation. (Applause.) I came here too, sir, to catch something of that spirit of self-sacrificing devotion to the cause of liberty and humanity that has animated you and the devoted friends who have gathered around you in the struggles of these thirty years. The President of the United States, as he stood the other day among the graves of the fallen brave on the immortal field of Gettysburg, said that the lesson there taught should be an inspiration to greater efforts in the future, in the cause of our periled country. This anniversary festival, sacred to the memories of past struggles, is to us an inspiration and a hope. I leave you to-night to go to the theatre of public duty, where anti-slavery men are to be tried at perhaps they were never tried before, inspired with the determination to do all that I can to break the last fetter of the last slave in the United States. (Long continued applause.)
You, Mr. President, were kind enough to say that, in political life, I did not wait for public opinion before committing myself to the sacred cause of equal and impartial liberty. On this occasion, when we may recur to the recollections and reminiscences of the past, I may be pardoned in saying that I was an anti-slavery man years before I entertained any political aspirations, or formed any political associations. In the spring of 1836, I visited the Capital of my country. Passing in the cars from Baltimore to Washington, I saw several slave women toiling in the fields. Turning to a gentleman sitting by me, I expressed an opinion that slavery was an evil and a dishonor, and was told rather sharply, that I "could not be permitted to express such an opinion in the State of Maryland." That was, perhaps, my first utterance against slavery, and the first rebuke I ever received for such an utterance. I went on to the Capital of my country. I saw slavery beneath the shadow of the flag that waved over the Capitol. I saw the slave-pen, and men and women, and children herded for the market of the far South; and at the table at which sat Senator Morris, of Ohio, then the only avowed champion of freedom in the Senate of the United States, I expressed my abhorrence of slavery and the slave traffic in the Capital of this democratic and Christian Republic. I was promptly told that "Senator Morris might be protected in speaking against slavery in the Senate, but I would not be protected in uttering such sentiments." I left the Capital of my country with the unalterable resolution to give all that I had, and all that I hoped to have of power, to the cause of emancipation in America, and I have tried to make that resolution a living faith from that day to this. (Applause.) My political associations, from that hour to the present, have always been guided by my opposition to slavery, in every form, and they always will be so guided. In twenty years of public life, I may have committed errors of judgment, but I have ever striven "to write my name," in the words of William Leggett, "in ineffaceable letters on the Abolition record." Standing here, to-night, in the presence of veteran anti-slavery men, I can say, in all the sincerity of conviction, that I would rather have it written upon the humble stone that shall mark the spot where I shall repose when life’s labors are done, "He did what he could to break the fetters of the slave," than to have it recorded that he filled the highest stations of honor in the gift of his countrymen. (Loud applause.)
As I have listened, Mr. President, here to-day to the reminiscences of the past, I have endeavored to realize the condition of the anti-slavery cause in American, when you, sir, and your associates, thirty years ago, founded here, in this city of Philadelphia, the American Anti-Slavery Society. When our fathers came out of the fiery trials of the Revolution, they believed that slavery would pass away under our republican institutions and Christian civilization; but the spirit of the revolutionary era passed away as its champions passed from earth. When the American Anti-Slavery Society was formed in 1833, the conquest and subjugation of the country by the slave-masters who had forgotten the teachings of the fathers was complete. Institutions of learning of benevolence and religion, political organizations, and public men, all bowed in unresisting submission to the iron will of the slave-masters who ruled the governments of the slaveholding Stares, and shaped the policy of the Republic. When you, sir, and your comrades organized the American Anti-Slavery Society, and proclaimed immediate emancipation to be the duty of the master and the right of the slave, you believed, in the bright ardor of that moment, that Christian America would respond to your noble appeals, would soon break every yoke, undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free. But the sentinels of the slave-masters sounded the alarm. They demanded that institutions of learning and religion, public men and the public press, should disown the heresy of immediate emancipation, and mark and brand its advocates. They demanded the suppression of the freedom of discussion and the liberty of the press. Timid, nerveless conservatism cowered before the imperious demands of Southern slave-masters. The reign of terror was inaugurated, law was prostrated in the dust, and the friends of the slave held property, liberty, and life itself, at the mercy of lawless mobs who set at defiance the laws of God, and the decencies of civilization.
But, amid scenes of lawlessness, violence, social proscription, and official rebuke, the heroic men who inaugurated the anti-slavery movement did not quail or shrink from fearful conflicts from which the timid instinctively recoiled. Their spirits rose and mantled as the storm of denunciation beat upon their devoted heads. They looked danger in the eye-they hurled defiance at arbitrary power. They saw with clear vision that the conflict was not a war of men, but of ideas and institutions. Like John Adams, they saw 
<c02>
"through the gloom of the present the rays of ravishing light and glory." They echoed the hopeful words of one of freedom’s poets-
"The few shall not forever sway,
The many toil in sorrow;
The powers of hell are strong to-day,
But Christ shall rise to-morrow."
Confident of the future, sir, they reechoed your defiant words: "We are in earnest; we will not equivocate; we will not excuse; we will not retreat a single inch; and we will be heard!" (Applause.) Few in numbers, strong only in their principles and the potency of their measures, they began that conflict with the advancing hosts of the legions of slavery, which has stirred the country to its profoundest depths for thirty years. Honored then, forever honored, be the men who, in the days of perilled liberty, when the shadows of slavery were darkening all the land, "cast an arch," in the words of Nathanie! Peabody Rogers, "upon the horizon like a semi-circle of polar lights, and upon it bent the motto, ‘Immediate Emancipation!’ glorious as the rainbow." (Applause.)
Great movements, affecting the relations of the people and of the nations, cannot be measured by the hours. By years, by epochs alone, can we measure the progressive advancement of a movement so grand and comprehensive as the anti-slavery movement in America. What mighty changes have been wrought in the condition of the anti slavery cause in the United States since the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized by representatives of ten States in 1833! Then a few unknown and nameless men were its apostles; now the most accomplished intellects in America are its champions. Then a few proscribed and hunted followers rallied around its banners; now it has laid its grasp upon the conscience of the nation, and millions rally around the folds of its flag. Then not a statesman in America accepted its doctrines or advocated its measures; now it controls more than twenty States; has a majority in both houses of Congress, and the Chief Magistrate of the republic decrees the emancipation of three millions of men. (Applause.) Then every free State was against it; now Western Virginia., Delaware, Maryland and Missouri pronounce for the emancipation of their bondmen. Then the public press covered it with ridicule and contempt-now the most powerful journals in America are its organs, scattering its truths broadcast over all the land. Then the religious, benevolent and literary institutions of the land rebuked its doctrines and proscribed its advocates-now it shapes, moulds and fashions them at its pleasure. Then political organizations trampled disdainfully upon it-now it looks down in the pride of conscious power upon the wrecked political fragments that float at its feet. Then it was impotent and powerless-now it holds public men and political organizations in the hollow of its hand. (Applause.) Then the public voice sneered at and defied it-now it is matter of America, and has only to be true to itself to bury slavery so deep that the hand of no returning despotism can reach it. (Great applause.) 
Mr. President, you and some others who founded the Society whose thirtieth anniversary you this day celebrate, have lived to see the sentiments embodied in your declaration of principles disseminated all over the land, and accepted by the American people. A few months ago, this beautiful city of Philadelphia was believed to be one of the most pro-slavery of the cities of the loyal States; now, Philadelphia is the most loyal, is the most anti-slavery city of the free States. But a few years ago, an anti-slavery man could hardly utter an anti-slavery sentiment in a political canvass without harm to his political friends. In the last canvass in this Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in every portion of the State, the champions of the Government clearly and distinctly denounced slavery, and sustained the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, emancipating more than three millions of men. (Applause.) Sir, it has been my fortune, during the last three months, to address my fellow-citizens in several of the States, and I am proud to say to you that the supporters of the government have spoken as distinctly and clearly in favor of the extinction of slavery in America as do the men who surround me upon this platform. The people see with clear vision that slavery is the rebellion; that slavery has dug more than a hundred thousand graves of loyal men; that slavery hates the country and its republican institutions, and that mercy to slavery is a crime against our country. (Great applause.) 
I am, Mr. President, filled with hope and confidence in the future of my country. I belong not to that class of men who are wont to claim a victory before they have won it. I believe that victory is never sure, so long as there is anything left undone to win it; and I say to the anti-slavery men, and women too, that, while you have a clear right to be hopeful and confident of the future, you have a duty to perform that will test all your devotion, all your firmness, all your wisdom. We are to be tried-the Government is to be tried. It was suggested to-day that, should the rebels surrender, they would continue to hold their slaves as bondmen. I do not believe it-for I have faith in the American people, and I know they will never permit it. (Great enthusiasm.) But should Jeff. Davis and his compeers in treason lay down their arms, you would see the Peace Democracy that, during the last thirty years, has committed every crime slavery bade it commit-you would see that Democracy whose life is bound up in the existence of slavery, everywhere demand that slavery should live, and the slave-masters come back again to govern the Republic. And we should see timid men with us, but hardly of us, cowardly shrinking back, consenting to make an inglorious peace, and leave slavery to redden, in another age, as it has in this, the fields of America with the blood of patriotism. Yet, while we are to be tried, I believe we shall remain firm, true, and faithful, and that we shall triumph. The way to triumph is to assume that the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, emancipating three millions three hundred thousand slaves in the ten rebel States, is the irrepealable law of this land; that this Christian nation is pledged to every slave, to the country, to the world, and to Almighty God, to see that every one of these bondmen is free forever and forevermore. (Great applause.) Let the loyal men of America assume, as the external law of the land, that slavery does not now exist in the disloyal States; that every black man there is free; that the President of the United States has pledged the physical power of all America to enforce the Proclamation of Freedom; that seven hundred thousand loyal bayonets bear that proclamation upon their glittering points. (Applause.)
When the people of the United States, in November, 1860, thronged to the ballot-boxes, and, in spite of the menaces of the slave-matters, made Abraham Lincoln President of the United States, slavery cast the shadows of its power over the land. That towering fabric of strength and power is now shivered to atoms, Two questions only were settled by the election of 1860. The people pronounced against the spread of slavery into the territories of the United States, and against the longer continuance of the rule of the slave power. Of slavery in the States we distinctly avowed we had no constitutional power to touch it. We said, "Slavery is the creature of local law; we are opposed to it; we will use our moral influence against it; it shall not be extended; we will not be ruled by it; we will destroy its political power, and we believe that in one or two generations it will gradually pass away." The election of 1860 did not directly affect the existence of slavery in the States, where it stood in all its strength protected by local legislation. But the slave-masters leaped into the rebellion to perpetuate slavery forever and to continue the rule of slave-masters, and the fires of the revolution they inaugurated are melting the chains of the bondman. I can never forget the dark days that followed the election of Abraham Lincoln. There was Buchanan, a poor, weak, imbecile old man, with. Floyd stealing the public arms; with Cobb breaking down the public credit; with Toucey sending the navy to distant seas; with Thompson intriguing to dismember the country; with Democratic leaders all over the North expressing sympathy with the rebel chiefs, assuring traitors that if the contest
<c03>
came to blows, the battle would be fought on Northern soil with doubtful results. Timid, nerveless conservatism implored us to accept that wicked proposition-aye, sir, the most wicked proposition ever made in the Congress of the United States-the Crittenden compromise. But amid these scenes of treason we calmly sat in the Congress of the United States, and bided our time. The President stole into Washington to escape the steel of the assassin, We took possession of the Government. Slavery, in the pride of its power, opened its batteries upon Sumter, brought down the old flag, ran up the banner of rebellion, and proclaimed the dismemberment of the Republic. Two and a half years have passed away, and there stands a proclamation-never to be recalled or modified-making 3,300,000 men in the rebel States free forevermore-(applause)-there stands an act forever prohibiting slavery in the vast territories of the United States-(applause)-there stands an act abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia, and I thank God that he gave me the privilege of introducing the bill that abolished the cleaving curse in the capital of my country. (Three cheers for Henry Wilson were proposed by Fred. Douglass, and given by the audience.) There stands an act annulling the slave codes and black laws of the District of Columbia, making the black man amenable to the same laws, to be tried in the same manner, and to be subjected to the same punishment as white men, and I am thankful that it was my privilege to introduce that measure of justice and humanity. (Applause.) There, too, stands an act, clothing the President with authority to place the sword, the rifle, the bayonet, and the flag, in the hands of black men to fight the battles of the Republic. There is the recognition of the black Republic of Hayti and Liberia-the treaty for the suppression of the African slave trade-the opinion of the Attorney-General that the black man is a citizen of the United States-and the passport of the Secretary of State, the evidence to the nations of the citizenship of men of the African race. (Applause.) Western Virginia has already pronounced the doom of her slavery. Little Delaware sends an Emancipationist to the House of Representatives. Maryland, under the lead of Henry Winter Davis-honored be his name-(cheers)-in utterances as clear and distinct as were ever pronounced, speaks for emancipation. Missouri, in spite of malign counsels, votes for immediate emancipation, (applause,) and Tennessee, under the lead of Andrew Johnson, is preparing to take her place in the lists of free Commonwealths. Kentucky, alone, bears the banner of slavery proudly and defiantly; her leading influences are against emancipation, but the people are fast ripening for it. They need only bold, earnest and determined leaders and organs to place her by the side of Pennsylvania, New York, and New England, ere another year shall pass away.
The armies of the Republic have in the recent elections proclaimed their undying love of freedom, and their utter detestation of copperhead democracy. The armies are the most potent emancipation societies in America. Our soldiers, in face of rebel leaders, are fighting for liberty, speaking for liberty, and voting for liberty. The Government of the United States is indebted to our soldiers in the field for the recent victories of the ballot-box, which have fallen with crushing weight upon the rebellion, and its sympathizing friends in the loyal States. Sir, I saw the other day a letter from General Grant, who has fought so many battles for the Republic, and won them all, (enthusiastic applause)-the hero who hurled his legions up the mountains before Chattanooga, and fought a battle for the Union above the clouds. (Applause.) The hero of Vicksburg says:-"I have never been an anti-slavery man, but I try to judge justly of what I see. I made up my mind when this war commenced that the North and South could only live together in peace as one nation, and they could only be one nation by being a free nation. (Applause.) Slavery, the cornerstone of the so-called confederacy, is knocked out, and it will take more men to keep black men slaves, than to put down the rebellion. Much as I desire peace, I am opposed to any peace until this question of slavery is forever settled." That is the position of the leading general of our armies. The votes of our soldiers, in the States permitting them to vote, are more than nine to one for the prosecution of the war, and the enforcement of the emancipation proclamation of Abraham Lincoln.
I say to you, sir, and to the anti-slavery men of the United States, who have rejected the subtle policy of concession and compromise, who have repudiated the guilty delusion that the sin of slavery belongs to past generations and repentance to posterity, you who have perpetually sounded into the ear of the nation the sin of oppression and the duty of repentance, go not home with the conviction that your work is done, but go home cheered by the assurance that the battle is going on for you; that you have stormed battery after battery, carried position after position; that you have only to be as true in the future as you have been in the past, to secure a permanent and enduring triumph. If the nation had accepted your doctrine of peaceful, legal, Christian action, this bloody war would never have come upon us. (Applause.) The crimes of two centuries have brought this terrible war upon us; but if this generation, upon whom God has laid His chastisements, will yet be true to liberty and humanity, peace will return again to bless this land now rent and torn by civil strife. Then we shall heal the wounds of war, enlighten the dark intellect of the emancipated bondman, and make our country the model Republic to which the Christian world shall turn with respect and admiration.
The speaker retired amid the deafening plaudits of the audience.

COTTON NOT KING.
LONDON, Dec, 4, 1863.
MY DEAR GARRISON-I have made several speeches lately for the purpose of showing how completely the sceptre has departed from King Cotton.
Great Britain is at this moment absolutely independent of the Southern States for the supply of the raw material of her cotton manufacture.
The rebels may burn their cotton, or export it, as they please, for it is not necessary to the present or future prosperity of our cotton trade that we should receive another bale of their produce; not only so, but it would be greatly to the advantage of our distant dependencies and of the world at large that we should not.
The effect of the stoppage of our supply from America has been to impart a mighty stimulus to the exertions of the inhabitants of other parts of the world, the climate and soils of which are adapted to the cultivation of the cotton plant.
I have given much attention to this subject recently; and upon the most authentic and trustworthy data-much of it official-I am able to state with confidence, that our imports of cotton for the coming year (1864) will be at the rate at least of 45,000 bales per week, and will be more than sufficient to give employment to all the hands then available.
From India we shall receive about 1,600,000 bales; from Turkey, about 375,000 bales; from China and Japan, 250,000 bales; from Turkey and Greece, 220,000 bales; from South America, 200,000 bales; from Southern Italy, Sicily and the Mediterranean, 50,000 bales; from the West Indies, Cuba, Africa, Australia and other sources, 70,000 bales; add to all this the stock on hand on the 1st of January-say 250,000 bales-and we shall have more than 3,000,000 of bales of cotton; from which, deduct 600,000 bales for exportation, and we have still the promise of an amount which, if not adequate to the full and constant employment of all our machinery, will be as much, and more than as much, as we shall be able to find hands to work up, and as much as can be brought into consumption.
The countries which have evinced the greatest eagerness to meet our demand for cotton have been Egypt, Turkey and Italy. The governments in these countries have in every possible way encouraged the cultivation of the plant, and have shown an
<c04>
energy and steadfastness of pupose altogether unlike their former apathetic modes of administration in matters relating to commerce.
The countries I have named possess peculiar advantages,-of soil, of climate, of supply of labor, and of facility of access to our market. They are also able to compete with the Southern States, not only in quality, but in cost of production. I do not think I am over- sanguine when I express my belief, as well as my hope, that in a few years our supply of cotton from the shores of the Mediterranean alone will be equal to two millions of bales of cotton a year.
During the last six years, a body of gentlemen in Manchester, acting under the name of "The Cotton Supply Association," have been directing their attention to the acquisition of information, from all parts of the world, on the subject of an increased supply of cotton for the. English market. During the same period, they have sent to a great number of places assortments of the best descriptions of seed, together with machines for cleaning the cotton. The result of their labors has been, that they have not only obtained a large amount of most valuable information, and formed a cotton museum filled with specimens of cotton from all cotton-growing countries, but have received cotton in various quantities from fifty new places, and have been able, through their committees and correspondents abroad, to render great, service during the late crisis. It was fortunate that such a Society was in existence and in efficient operation when that crisis came upon us.
True it is that our operatives in the North have been called to pass through a season of deep distress, in consequence of the closing of the mills, and the stagnation of all branches of the cotton manufacture. But this distress has been greatly alleviated by the spontaneous benevolence of all classes of the community; also, by the parochial rates, which, although they have fallen very heavily upon the rate-payers, have been borne uncomplainingly; also by a Parliamentary appropriation of £1,500,000 sterling, for the employment of the able-bodied men in works of public and permanent utility.
Though, doubtless, our working classes have suffered great privations, (which they have borne with heroic fortitude and resignation,) there has been no increase of mortality in the distressed districts, and even less disease than in other parts of the country.
To give you some idea of the diminution in the distress prevailing in the cotton districts, I may refer to the last report on the subject. The number receiving parochial aid, in the shape of out-door relief, was, in the third week of November, 1862, 249,336, while in the corresponding week of 1863, it was 111,298; being a diminution of 138,538. The money paid in the former week was £17,773, while in the latter week it was £8,216; being a decrease of £9,557. To meet the distress of the approaching winter months, there is remaining of the fund in the hands of the Central Relief Committee about £250,000; of another fund, called the Bridgewater House Fund, £80,000; of the Liverpool Fund, £60,000; and in the hands of the Parochial Boards £100,000-total, £490,000, to which and £1,500,000 for employment on public works, and you will see that, exclusive of the ordinary parochial rates, we have nearly £2,000,000 to be applied to the relief of distress, pending the arrival of our expected supplies of cotton, and the resumption of work at our mills.
The value of the works which are being carried on in the various townships most severely visited by the distress, will far exceed the amount in money expended upon them. The result in the improvement both of the public-property and the public health will be immense. Miles upon miles of streets will be sewered and paved; parks for the people will be laid out and planted; waste lands will be drained and brought into cultivation; and all who are employed on these and similar undertakings, having their physical wants provided for while so engaged, will be more likely to enjoy robust health than they would be if immured within the heated rooms of a cotton factory.
After a sober and thoughtful review of our domestic condition during the last three years, and an equally deliberate estimate of our prospects for the future, I have arrived at the conclusion that the failure of our supply of cotton from the Southern States has done us no serious injury, and that in its results to us it will be one of the most fortunate events that could have occurred.
The spell by which we were once bound is broken- the enchantment is dissolved. England no longer bows her neck to the yoke of slavery. Her cotton is no longer stained with blood.
Previous to the breaking out of that wicked rebellion, which at this moment is alike convulsing and regenerating your country, so prolific were the plantations of the South, so excellent was the quality of the fibre grown, so comparatively near was the field of production, and so established were the trade exchanges and correspondence between England and America, that eighty-five per cent of all the cotton we consumed came from your slave-cursed shores. While this was the state of things, there was not the slightest possible encouragement to other countries to grow cotton in competition with the produce of the Southern States. Hence our bondage to the slaveholders seemed complete and inexorable. By their own act we have been emancipated, and shall never again be enthralled. The cunning have been taken in their own craftiness. Vaulting ambition hath o'erleaped itself.
How marvellously have events, evil in themselves, worked towards the furtherance of ends beneficent and good!
From England I turn to America. Instead of peace, industry and union, the dogs of war have been let loose, and twice five hundred thousand men have been summoned to the battle-field. War has brought with it its invariable incidents-derangement of trade, the substitution of destructive for peaceful and productive arts, waste of money, time and energy, excesses, crimes and blood, bereavement, mourning and desolation. Through these things I look to the results. A renovated North. The press, the pulpit and the mart delivered from the pollution and chains thrown around them by the South. The Slave Power- bloated with success, arrogant, ambitious, insolent, intolerant, grasping-filled with dreams of universal dominion-assuming to give laws to the world-confident of the recognition and cooperation of the countries it had bound in coils of cotton; this haughty tyrant is to-day prostrate. He may still possess strength, and hope, and malice, and an unsubdued spirit, but he is powerless for further mischief-the monster has been brought low. And what of slavery, the minister to his wealth, the nursery of his lusts, the foundation of his empire? By the act that has given independence to us, he has given death to the creature of his idolatry. I could almost thank God for the rebellion. What I had never dared to hope to see has come to pass-freedom to the slaves of the cotton plantations of the South. The slave of yesterday the freeman of to-day-a man, a citizen, a patriot soldier!
How have I longed to see the day when free labor cotton from other countries would take the place upon our wharves, and in our mills, and upon our counters, of the cotton raised by the forced labor of American slaves! I see it now. It is already here, and the cry is, "Still it comes." It is coming in millions of bales from India, in hundreds of thousands from Egypt, and Turkey, and South America; in tens of thousands from the emancipated islands of the West Indies; from Southern, Northern and Western Africa; from Austral-Asia, and the South Sea Islands; it is blessing him that grows it, and it will bless the thousands that will manufacture and consume it.
I have ever regarded our vast manufacturing power-our ability to produce in the shape of textile fabrics what the inhabitants of the what earth require-and our corresponding demand for a raw material which every section of the globe can furnish, as a means of conferring boundless blessings upon the
<c05>
varied tribes of mankind, as well as of enriching ourselves.
Hitherto, however, the money we have paid for the staple of our great manufactures has gone almost exclusively to a class of men who were the enemies and oppressors of the human race, and to whom our money was a premium on the maintenance and extension of their infernal system. This will be so no longer. Our money will go to pay the cultivator of the soil, and will furnish a legitimate profit to the honest employer.
These are cheering facts, and may lead the friends of humanity on both sides of the water to rejoice that COTTON IS NO LONGER KING.
Ever steadfastly yours in the cause of the enslaved, GEO. THOMPSON.
W. L. GARRISON.
This letter of Mr. Thompson is full of interest and importance, and gives, strong additional evidence that the death-warrant of American slavery is irrevocably sealed.
In a private note, dated Dec. 4th, Mr. Thompson says-"In a month from the present time, I hope to be on my way to Boston"-so that it is probable he may arrive in season for the Anti-Slavery Festival, and the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, to be held in this city the last week in January.
It will be seen by our "Refuge" department, that the contemplated visit of this eloquent advocate of freedom, and devoted friend of republican institutions, to this country, is already eliciting the venomous hissings of the copperhead spirit; an additional stimulus being given in consequence of the hearty and efficient support given in England, by Mr. Thompson, to the side of the Federal Government, and in determined opposition to Southern treason and rebellion. But this is impotent malice as well as dirty blackguardism; and the source from which it emanates is in the highest degree complimentary alike to the patriotism and the philanthropy of Mr. Thompson.
We have copied the scurrilous article from the Bloomsburg Democrat, with all its bad spelling, grammatical blunders, &c. Thus-"George Thomson"- "Fanuel Hall"-"his bold treason and sedition was too outrageous"-"the aspect of affairs have indeed changed"-"the terrible effects of the carnage of war has been felt"-&c., &c. This scribbler should go to a primary school. His democracy smells of the grog-shop and the gutter. When he says that he has no expectation that Mr. Thompson will have "the brazen hardihood to again dishonor the British crown (!) by his presence on our soil," he is evidently "half seas over."
GEORGE THOMPSON COMING. It is announced that George Thompson, the eminent English statesman, the life-long champion of Freedom, and the true friend of our Government and Country in the pending struggle with Slavery, is about to visit America once more. Let him come. He will receive a glad and cordial welcome from all loyal men. He will not be mobbed in Concord, we opine.-Concord (N. H.) Democrat.
Some copperheads have gone crazy over the announcement that George Thompson is coming to this country. They fear that he will say something that may tend to hurt the feelings of those charming creatures, "our Southern brethren," who strive so hard to cane us, but haven’t been able to do it as yet-Boston Traveller.
The proceedings of the highly interesting Decade Celebration at Philadelphia unavoidably exclude much other matter which we should like to lay be fore our readers; and will continue to do so for two more numbers of the Liberator. But we are sure they will be perused with high satisfaction by our readers. Correspondents must exercise the grace of patience; their favors are on file for the earliest insertion practicable.
EMANCIPATION DAY.-Rev. L. A. Grimes, Wm. F. Butler, G. A. Rue, E. Grisom, and H. H. White, called a public meeting of the citizens of Boston, which assembled in the 12th Baptist Church, Southac street, on the 20th inst., which call was responded to. The object was to make proper arrangements for a Grand Celebration of the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. The house was called to order by Rev. L. A. Grimes. Rev. W. F. Butler was chosen President. The meeting was opened, first, by singing; and second, prayer by Rev. E. Grisom; after which it was voted unanimously that we celebrate the first day of January, 1864, in Tremont Temple, and that we hold three sessions, morning, afternoon and evening. It was voted, that Rev. L. A. Grimes be the President for the day, and the following named gentlemen invited as speakers:- His Excellency, John A. Andrew, Frederick Douglass, W. L. Garrison, C. L. Remond, Rev. E. N. Kirk, D. D., Rev. H. H. White, Wendell Phillips, Esq., John S. Rock, Esq., Rev. Wm. Hague, D. D., Robert Morris, Esq., Rev. A. L. Stone, D. D., Rev. G. Haven, Edward Walker, Esq., J. M. Langston, Revs. W. F. Butler, C. W. Waterston, J. M. Manning, A. A. Miner, D. D., and F. T. Boas.
For Vice Presidents-Thomas Dalton, John C. Coburn, William Logan, Rev. G. A. Rue, Rev. E. Grisom, Lewis Hayden, John B. Smith, Robert Johnson, J. T. Sydney, Elder Thompson, Rev. P. Randolph, and Jonn J. Smith.
For Secretaries-Edward N. Bannister, Frederick Johnson, Frederick T. Boas, Lewis Douglass, F. Lewis, and G. H. W. Steward.
Finance Committee-Philip Lee, William Johnson, Thos. S. Stephenbourgh, and C. Pitts.
A collection, afternoon and evening, to defray expenses; the surplus goes to the benefit of the freed people South.
The Sabbath Schools will conduct the singing in the afternoon. It was also voted to invite "The Hutchinson family" to sing in the evening; after which, the meeting adjourned.
Revs. L. A. GRIMES,
Revs. WM. F. BUTLER,
Revs. G. A. RUE,
Revs. ELIJAH GRISOM,
Revs. H. H. WHITE,
for the citizens.
OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A Special Meeting of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society will be held at PLYMOUTH, on FRIDAY, January 1st, 1864, which all friends of the Society and all friends of Freedom and of the Country are requested to attend.
To commemorate the first anniversary of the President’s Proclamation of Freedom to Three Millions of Slaves,-to celebrate the season of the Landing at Forefathers’ Rock,-to give new vigor to the purpose, and help make it an unmistakably National purpose, to root out Slavery from our soil, and forever banish its hateful presence from our counsels and our country,-are the leading objects of this meeting, which we trust will be a memorable one to all who shall attend it.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURY, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., and other advocates of Complete Emancipation, are expected to be present.
Particulars of place and hours of meeting in next paper.
For the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society,
BOURNE SPOONER, President.
SAMUEL DYER, Secretary.
UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.-NEW HAMPSHIRE CAMPAIGN.-STEPHEN S. FOSTER will lecture in New Hampshire as follows:-
Contocookville, Monday, Dec. 28.
Henniker, Tuesday, Dec 29.
Hillsboro’, Wednesday, Dec 30.
Antrim, Thursday, Dec 31.
Warner, Friday, Jan. 1.
Bradford, Sat. and Sun. Jan 2-3. 
Sutton, Monday, Jan. 4.
New London, Tuesday, Jan.5.
Also as above; A. T. Foss and W. A. JACKSON, (Jeff. Davis’s coachman,) will lecture in 
Fishersville, Tuesday, Dec. 29.
Boscawen, Wednesday, Dec.30.
Salisbury, Thursday, Dec.31.
Franklin, Friday, Jan. 1.
Andover, Saturday and Sun., Jan.2 and 3.
Wilmot Flat, Monday, Jan. 4.
Danbury, Tuesday, Jan.5.
Springfield, Wednesday, Jan.6.
Croydon, Thursday, Jan.7.
And in that vicinity, until Tuesday, Jan.12.
<c06>
MIDDLESEX COUNTY.-There will be a meeting of the Middlesex Co. A. S. Society in Lowell, on Sunday, Dec. 27, to commence at 10 o’clock in the forenoon, and continue through the day and evening. Rev. W. H. HEYWARD, (late of Hopedale,) PARKER PILLSBURY and E. H. HEYWOOD will address the Convention.
HEYWOOD will address the convention.
SAMUEL BARRETT,
President Middlesex Co. A. S. Society.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.-AARON M. POWELL and WENDELL P. GARRISON will speak at
Philmont, N. Y., Tuesday, Dec. 29.
Martindale, N. Y. "Wednesday, Dec. 30.
Canaan, N. Y. Sunday, Jan. 3.
W. Winfield, N. Y. Wednesday, Jan. 6.
Bridgewater, Thursday, Jan. 7.
Rome, Friday, Jan. 8.
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURE.-The ninth Lecture in the Fraternity Course will be delivered Tuesday evening, Dec. 29, at Tremont Temple, by Mrs. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, of New York. Subject, "The Future of the Republic."
CAPE COD.-There will be a Convention in EXCHANGE HALL, at Harwich, on Sunday, Jan. 3, commencing at 10 o’clock, and continuing through the day and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD and PARKER PILLSBURY are engaged as a portion of the speakers. The people of the Cape never need urging to attend this annual meeting.
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled "The Right Way the Safe Way," can be had at the Liberator office, wholesale or retail. Price-$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December 8, 1863.
GENERAL ORDER, No. 42.
In reply to many inquiries, the following Order is promulgated, being condensed from previous Proclamations and Orders:-
I. Veteran soldiers (that is, discharged soldiers who have served at least nine months) will receive from the United States Government the veteran bounty of $402, whether they enlist in any regiment or company now in the field, or in either of the following organizations, viz:-2d Regt. of Heavy Artillery, Colonel Franklin; the 56th Regt. of Infantry, (1st Veterans,) Colonel Griswold; the 57th, (2d Veterans,) Colonel Bartlett; the 58th, (3d Veterans.) Colonel Richmond; the 59th, (4th Veterans,) Colonel Gould; or in the new Battalion of Cavalry now forming at Readville, to be attached to the 1st Regiment of Mass. Cavalry Volunteers, Colonel Sargent; or in the other new Battalion now recruiting at Readville, to form part of the 4th Mass. Cavalry Volunteers, Lieutenant-Colonel Arnold A. Rand. Such veterans will receive the bounty of $402 from the United States, and the full State bounty of Massachusetts, in the manner set forth in the Proclamation of the Governor, of November 18th ult.
II. All raw recruits (i.e. those not veterans) will receive the full State bounty who enlist in either of the organizations, new or old, now in the field, or now being raised. Such new recruits will not receive $302 from the United States, but instead thereof, $100 only from the United States. If they join one of the old regiments or companies now in the field; or one of the Cavalry Battalions named above, they will receive $302 from the United States. By Special Order of the Secretary of War, these two Cavalry Battalions are parts of old regiments now in the field.
New recruits have, however, the right to join any regiment or company not already full, whether new or old, if they choose to do so, and to accept the smaller United States bounty instead of the larger one.
III. To recapitulate. The United States does not pay recruits who are not Veterans of nine months’ service any bounty exceeding $100, unless they join one of the old organizations already in the field, including in the term "old organizations," etc.," &c., the two Cavalry Battalions above mentioned.
It pays nine months’ Veterans joining any organizations, new or old, $402 bounty.
It pays raw recruits $302, who go into old organizations, including the two Cavalry Battalions aforesaid.
The Commonwealth pays her full bounty to all classes of recruits, allowing them to join any regiment or company they please, if there is room to receive them.
IV. The United States officers do not offer any bounty to men of color, nor do they pay them the full wages of a soldier. They pay $10 per month, of which $3 may be in clothing.
This Commonwealth pays the full bounty of $325 in hand on being mustered into the United States services as a Massachusetts volunteer, to ALL soldiers, irrespective of color or extraction; or the soldier may, if he prefers it, receive $50 in advance, and monthly State pay, by way of bounty, $20 per month.
V. By Act of November 16, 1863, this Commonwealth, out of its own Treasury, makes up to the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Volunteers the deficiency in their pay, and a paymaster has already gone to those regiments for the purpose of their payment.
VI. Volunteers now in the field, authorized under orders from the War Department to re-enlist as Veteran Volunteers, and who do re-enlist in Massachusetts Volunteers, (see General Orders, Nos. 33 and 34, from these Headquarters,) receive the full bounty offered by the United States, and also the full bounty of Massachusetts, of $325 in advance, or of $50 in advance, and $20 per month, at their own election, (see Governor’s Proclamation of November 18, 1863, and General Orders, Nos. 32, 33 and 34.)
VII. Such Volunteers re-enlisting will be credited to their towns against present quotas under the last call.
By order of His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December, 1863. GENERAL ORDER, No. 44.
I. Pursuant to authority received from the United States Department of War, a regiment of Cavalry Volunteers, to be composed of men of color, enlisted for three years, unless sooner discharged, is now in process of recruitment in this Commonwealth. It is known as the Fifth Regiment of Massachusetts Cavalry Volunteers.
II. Lieut.-Col. HENRY S. RUSSELL, of the Second Massachusetts Cavalry Volunteers, is designated its Colonel.
III. The United States pays no bounty to the recruits for this regiment under existing regulations, nor wages exceeding $10 per month, including $3 per month for clothing.
IV. But this Commonwealth offers precisely the same bounty offered to all other volunteers, viz: $325 bounty, paid in Massachusetts after the volunteer is mustered into his regiment; or, if he shall so elect, then $50 bounty payable as aforesaid, and $20 monthly bounty or pay, in addition to the pay now or hereafter received by him from the United States.
V. Communications concerning the regiment may be made to Colonel Henry S. Russell, No. 21 School Street, Boston. The regiment will rendezvous at Camp Meigs, Readville, Brig. Gen. Pierce Commandant.
VI. The following is the organization of a regiment and of a company of cavalry into the Volunteer. Army of the United States, under existing laws, viz:-
REGIMENT OF CAVALRY-Twelve Companies of Troops.
1 Colonel.
1 Lieutenant-Colonel.
3 Majors.
1 Surgeon.
2 Assistant Surgeons.
1 Regimental Adjutant, (an extra Lieut.)
1 Regimental Quartermaster, ( an extra. Lieut.)
1 Regimental Commissary, (an extra Lieut.)
1 Chaplain.
1 Veterinary Surgeon.
1 Sergeant-Major. 
1 Quartermaster Sergeant.
1 Commissary Sergeant.
2 Hospital Stewards.
1 Saddler Sergeant.
1 Chief Trumpeter.
COMPANY OR TROOP OF CAVALRY.
1 Captain.
1 First Lieutenant.
1 Second Lieutenant.
1 First Sergeant.
1 Quartermaster Sergeant.
1 Commissary Sergeant
5 Sergeants.
8 Corporals.
2 Trumpeters.
2 Farriers or Blacksmiths.
1 Saddler.
1 Wagoner.
60 Privates-minimum.
78 Privates-maximum.
VII. The Governor regards with great satisfaction the progress made since the inauguration of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Volunteers. And he confidently contemplates the accession from this Commonwealth to the National Army, of a Cavalry Regiment of Colored Americans, which will illustrate their capacity for that dashing and brilliant arm of the military service. In this hour of hope for our common country and for ourselves; at a time when they hold the destiny of their race in their own grasp; and when its certain emancipation from prejudice, as well as slavery, is in the hands of those now invited to unite in the final blow which will annihilate the rebel power, let no brave and strong man hesitate. One cannot exaggerate the call sounding in the earn of all men, in whose veins flows the blood of Africa, and whose color has been the badge of slavery. It offers the opportunity of years crowded into an hour. It bids them come and be numbered with the peoples of every race, who, by their own arms, have vindicated their right to all the blessings and all the powers of Liberty.
By order of His Excellency, JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander-in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SUMNER.
I.
“Alas! alas!” the poet sighs,
“Blind man knows not his benefactors,
His truest friends; the noblest actors
Have ever had most vile detractors;
And he who helps the poor to rise,
His mood of praise the age denies,
For which he nobly lives and dies.”
II.
But with prophetic eyes behold,
Adown the shining vista gazing,
Their star-set crowns serenely blazing,
The Heroes whom all tongues are praising!
They who their noble talents sold,
The cause of freedom to uphold
Against the mighty power of gold.
III.
O, earth’s down-trodden millions, rise!
Pray ye devoutly the Great Giver
For light to know the smooth deceiver
From him who toileth to deliver
Your bodies from tyrannie ties,
Your souls from errors which disguise
The dayspring of your liberties!
IV.
God’s light is breaking on all lands!
Praised be his holy name forever!
Blest be his martyr’s great endeavor!
With earnest prayer, that mighty lever,
Lift up the moral hero’s hands
For duties which the age demands,
For work which with the day expands!
V.
We honor him in this great hour
Who dares to speak the truth eternal,
To read from Heaven’s Judgment journal,
Defiant to the powers infernal!
The truth of God is his strong tower,
The love of God his conquering power,
To which all tyrants yet shall cower!
VI.
Ye good and great, come venerate
The Heralds of Emancipation,
The moral pillars of the nation,
Stanch bringers of a great salvation,
Who opened Slavery’s iron gate,
Obedient to a righteous fate,
Admitting men to man’s estate.
VII.
Then let the foes of freedom rave!
As strong, defiant as Gibraltar,
Amid the waves stands Freedom’s altar;
Nor shall the arm of Justice falter,
Though every tyrant, every knave,
Be buried in a tyrant’s grave
With that great wrong they seek to save.
VIII.
Immortal SUMNER! thy pure aim,
By bondmen’s tears baptized, rewarded,
Shines clear of every motive sordid,
On Glory’s page to be recorded!
For God himself shall bless that name
Which all humanity’s acclaim
Lifts up to bright, transcendent fame!
Muggett Hill, Mass., 1863. ALTER EGO.

WEARINESS.
BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
O little feet, that such long years
Must <illegible> and bleed beneath your load!
I, nearer to the wayside inn,
Where toil shall cease, and rest begin,
Am weary, thinking of your road.
O little hands, that, weak or strong,
Have still to serve or rule so long,
Have still so long to give or ask!
I, who so much with book and pen
Have toiled among my fellow-men,
Am weary, thinking of your task.
O little hearts, that throb and beat
With such impatient, feverish heat,
Such limitless and strong desires!
Mine, that so long has glowed and burned,
With passions into ashes turned,
Now covers and conceals its fires.
O little souls, as pure and white
And crystaline as rays of light
Direct from heaven, their source divine!
Refracted through the mist of years,
How red my setting sun appears,
How lurid looks this soul of mine!

THIS WORLD.
BY MRS. E. E. BROWN.
Some people think this world of ours
Is but a vale of sorrow;
And if their stock of ills fall short,
They are very sure to borrow.
They’ll tell you, with a mournful voice,
That soul and flesh are weary
With toiling through a thorny way,
Where all is dark and dreary.
They think that friendship’s but a name,
Invented to deceive you;
And hint that those you love the best
Will be the first to leave you.
They say that you must never trust
A promise of man’s making-
That he will plot your ruin, while
An oath of love he’s taking.
Cheer up! cheer up! my gloomy friends,
You make one half your trouble;
For brooding o’er each trifling care
Is sure to make it double.
We’re all too apt to magnify
The little ills that meet us;
And pass with thankless murmurs by
The blessings that may greet us.
A storm may sweep across the sky,
But still the sun is shining;
And underneath the darkest cloud
There larks a silver lining.
Our Heavenly Father filled this world
With scenes of love and beauty,
And we shall find them everywhere,
If we but do our duty.
Mattapoisett.-New Bedford Republican.

THE DYING YEAR.
BY WM. C. BRYANT.
Now doth the hurrying sun,
Tardier to rise, and earlier to his rest,
More gorgeous gild with gleaming gold the west,
Whene’er his race is run!
The many-colored leaves
Are sweeping o’er the heath with rustling sound,
And swallows’ empty and deserted nests are found
Beneath the caves.
The frequent blast
Groans through the night, and moans in lashing seas,
Bends the dead limbs, and leaves the rifled trees
Skeletons of the past.
The winds that mean,
The leaf that withers, and the limbs that fall,
The flight of birds, but dying years recall,
With many a green.
These life do typify:
Misfortunate is the blast, and treasured joys the leaves,
And friends the birds that fly the wintry caves
<illegible> comes adversity
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s. Household.”
CHAPTER XII.
A CANINE FRIEND-“NO HELP FOR THE POOR BLAGGS!”
Every day the child Dilly added some new charm to Hinna’s home. Blithely she tripped about her morning work, and her care of Dove, as she called her babe, was baby-house and doll-tending, more than anything else. The wee stranger, too, was wonderfully fitted to its condition, for it was a famous little sleeper; and what with the kind Hinna’s supervision, Dilly was mostly at leisure. 
Accompanied by Bruno, it was her delight to ramble in the woods back of the house, and gather wild flowers and mosses and glossy leaves to decorate the little cottage. The dog walked by her side as grave and patronizing as possible. He was the most reasoning of dogs-of mature age and judgment-had seen much of the world;-you could see it in his eye, the carriage of his head, his gait, and the wag of his tail. You would think from his air that he was a dignitary old enough to be Dilly’s grandfather, and proportionably wise. Dilly carried on a child’s talk with him.
“O, Bruno! see what I’ve found! some real violets! O, won’t marm Hinna be glad!” and she sat down in the grass, and began picking for dear life, while Bruno sagely sat by her side on a little knoll, and looked complacently about. 
“There, Bruno! I’ve got a nice bunch of violets; and now see, I’m gwine to tie this up with grasses, and hang it round your neck, ‘cause you haven’t any hands to carry it, you see! Won’t that be funny?” and she laughed lightly at her task; and the dog with half-closed eyes of contentment quietly kept his seat as she fastened the flowers-which done, she scampered up a path, followed by her protector on a dignified trot. 
“O, I’ve found something, Bruno,” said Dilly, “but I must not tell, either-it’s a secret. Mrs. Thrush’s nest hid snug in this dogwood, with five little blue eggs! O, you darlings! I wouldn’t harm you for the world. Every day I shall have the comfort of peeping at this little nest. It is built so pretty! Let me see-I must tell marm Hinna about it. Dry leaves, grass, mud and fine roots woven together into a nest; and the dogwood leaves spread around it for curtains! What a pretty home for birdies!” Just then, a bird appeared. “Never fear, Mrs. Thrush! Bruno and I are good friends. Come with me, Bruno, and sit under this honey locust. Now, Bruno, I’m in for a good time; and I’m gwine to invite you to swing with me. Don’t know what you’ll say, I make sure, but here ‘tis! Come and swing! Come and swing!” and she bounded into the loop of a grape-vine that dangled from an ash, and with a spring away and away she went. Bruno sat at a little distance with bright eye and wagging tail, sympathizing in her enjoyment Thus she spent a happy half hour, and then, stopping, she bethought her of her flower gathering. 
She was busy filling her apron with mosses, violets, and wild roses, when her attention was attracted by the dog’s manner. He was moving restlessly, and suspiciously snuffing the breeze. The child, for a moment, looked apprehensively around, then resumed her play. But a decided growl from Bruno, as he glared fiercely at a clump of shrubbery deep in the woods, caused her to drop from her hand the flowers just picked, and gaze about again. The dog was impatient for her to return to the cottage, by turns looking up in her face, and whining as he moved towards the house, and making hostile demonstrations in the direction of the unseen danger. So Dilly, understanding his mute language, tripped down the path, and in a few moments was safe by Hinna’s side.
“Hi, Bruno!” said Hinna, as they entered, “what’s in the wind now? It’s no friend you ‘re concerned for, that’s plain-nobody in distress; you don’t want me to go with you, I can see that You want to go alone, old fellow! Well, Bruno, you may go. Seek ‘em, good fellow!” 
And the dog, giving Hinna a glance as much as to say, “Trust me for that,” disappeared in the bushes.
After a prolonged absence, as Hinna sat at her seine tying, Bruno returned, and resumed his place on the mat at her feet.
“Had a good hunt, Bruno?” said the ferry-woman. “You must have your exercise, I reckon, and I am glad you‘ve felt like it, as I’m gwine to leave Dilly awhile, and I shall feel all the easier, knowing you’ve scoured the woods to-day. Dilly must keep up a good heart while Hinna’s gone. I’ll speak to old Job across the river to tend the ferry, and keep an eye on her, and I shall soon get back.” 
Hinna had heard of the discovery of Chainy. The strong-hearted woman was filled with indignation.
“The rich whites has baffled me!” she said to Dilly; “they’ve got them as I was at so much pains to help. Chainy’s saunt back to Rixby, an’ Trolo most likely’s perished in the swamp. Better off so than in Rixby’s grasp. But I’ll set out this very day, and see what I can do for her.”
Before midnight she had accomplished the journey, having reached the “quarters” of Powhatan. Seeking Chainy’s cabin,-for after her return, she had fallen into Rixby’s care,-she found her in a most deplorable condition, curled down in a corner, with her little Kitty in her arms. The affectionate child had obtained Miss Forsythe’s permission to sleep with her mother, and comfort her. Poor Chainy had been cruelly whipped by overseer Rixby, despite the governess’ interposition and his own promise, and was now so bruised and lame that she could scarcely move, but lay moaning on her bed of straw. 
Hinna’s sympathies were fully aroused.
“It’s too bad,” she broke out, “that you has to come back to your slave lot agin! God will curse them as does such things. But you shall be free yet. Come, let me rig up that little gal, and you shall be safe in my cottage till you gits well, and I’ll try onct more, and git you clar.” 
“Oh no,” said the disheartened woman, “I’s dat sick an’ sore, I can’t move. An’ now my poor boy is perished, what’s I to live for?” 
“Why, live to git free, and have your gal free,” replied Hinna, spiritedly.
“No, no-I shan’t never try again,” said Chainy. “They takes me, an’ then they done whip me to death. I shan’t never try again,” and she sobbed aloud. 
Little Kitty, awakened by the sobbing, snugged up to her mother, and putting her arms about her neck said, “Don’t cry! don’t cry!” 
Hinna’s tears came in spite of herself, but brushing them away she continued to encourage Chainy to set out for her dwelling. But there was no more courage in her; and Hinna saw it was useless to urge the matter, helpless as she was from her wounds, and for want of restoratives and suitable nourishment. But what could she do for her? She knew that Mr. Nelson was not at home, and that Miss Forsythe had a woman’s heart, and at once resolved to seek her for the necessaries for which Chainy was suffering. Rapping under the good lady’s window, the ferry-woman succeeded in arousing her; and, making known her errand, gained admission.
Miss Forsythe was greatly pained to lean of Chainy’s situation. She had felt quite hopeful that the overseer would, for her sake, forbear the usual infliction. Dressing, and taking what comforts were at hand, she accompanied Hinna to Chainy’s hut. 
“Oh, this dreadful system!” said Miss Forsythe as they were on their way, “why must it exist!”
“Why I oh, there’s reason enough!” bitterly replied Hinna, “it’s of so much use!-it’s of use to spile the rich man, an’ make ‘em proud and cruel, and fit ‘can for what’s opening by and by; an’ it’s of use to 
<c03>
crush down us poor whites;-and then it is the quickest way of killin’ off them as is slaves. There’s no livin’ without it, don’t you see?”
On reaching the cabin, Miss Forsythe’s thoughts were fully occupied in ministering to the distressed being before her.
“Poor Chainy, I am very sorry for you,” said she, as she gave her nourishment, and applied to her lacerated back and limbs a healing lotion.
“De Fader’ll bless you! you is dat kind!” replied the grateful woman. 
“I don’t see as I can be of any more use,” said Hinna, rising to go, and proffering Miss Forsythe a handful of small pieces of money to get further comforts for Chainy.
“Oh, no, I cannot take it,” said Miss Forsythe; “you’ve had to work hard for it-I’ll use my own money, and see that she is well cared for.”
Hinna made no reply, but, throwing the silver contemptuously at the governess’ feet, hurried away, muttering as she went:-
“Why don’t folks that knows what’s right come out before folks, and act up to it? If slavery is a sin and a shame, why don’t they get dear of it? All very nice to pity a poor waked up, broken-hearted thing, and give her food, and wash her stripes! Don’t cost much, that don’t, but what good does it do, only to comfort them that hasn’t any comfort for a little while! Does the food and the medicine and the pity make Chainy free? Does it bring back the boy that’s perished, and the husband that’s wandering with the beasts in the swamp, or save her from the grip of Rixby? Hinna’s hearn tell of this sort of religion and benevolence before, that preaches to the slave on Sunday, and parts husband and wife on Monday, and makes them marry again their will just to raise up children for the market; that steals all the earnings of the poor slave people, and robs them of themselves, and gives ‘em a little meat once a month, and now and then some trinket. Oh, yes! mighty generous and pious! and then blow their own trumpet, and say, ‘See how kind we be to our people, and what a fine thing slavery is!’ Miss Forsythe’s kinder than some o’ the rich uns, but she shan’t use her spare change on the poor that’s been bruised and robbed, to ease her conscience, while she dresses in her silks and rolls in luxury. Let her wash her hands from the bloodstains first, and help the poor slaves get free, if she would do something for ‘em.”
Hinna was originally from “Blagg’s Old Fields”-a small hamlet or settlement of Eastern Virginia, composed of a most degraded people, scarcely approaching the slaves in respectability and honesty of character. They took possession of the poor pine barrens on which they lived, called from their being worn out “Old Fields.” They were never more than half fed and clothed, being either too inefficient and lazy to procure for themselves a comfortable subsistence, or, having no opportunity to get an honest livelihood, they became discouraged. The business of the men was chiefly hunting, fishing and thieving. The women were more industrious: they tilled the land, and gathered the scanty crops. 
And what encouragement had this people-the dregs of civilization-the sediment of Southern society-shut out and debarred the possibility of the slightest social elevation by the workings of the surrounding system?
A traveller passing through this miserable colony will see numbers of the little squalid children, coated with filth, but very innocent of clothes, playing in the sand by the road side. If they hear his approach, they will scamper for their holes, like so many prairie dogs. Should he come upon them unawares, he will think them forlorn objects indeed.
Passing through the hamlet years before. Judge Wardsworth became interested in Hinna, as more active and intelligent than most of her class. He wished to try the experiment of elevating one of this people, and, at length, gave her a situation as nurse in his family. She was then sixteen. She soon learned to make herself useful, but at the expiration of some years, finding that she could not rise above the level of the servants, she became discontented and left She visited the Blaggs for a short time, but could not live in their degraded way. Having quite a sum saved of her earnings, she had the enterprise to purchase a boat, and set up for a ferry-woman.
It would be difficult to say for whom Hinna, as a benefactress, felt the liveliest sympathy,-the slaves, or her own people; perhaps she could not herself tell. She had long pondered in her lonely night rambles the condition of the latter, and was resolved on seeing what could be done to better it At length, restless with compassionate promptings, having hired a neighbor’s servant to tend the ferry, leaving Bruno to guard Dilly, she started off for the place of her birth. 
It was about midnight of the second day when she reached the settlement. The last few miles led across a sandy waste, on which nothing essayed to grow, save a few stinted pines. Nearer the hamlet, some feeble attempts at cultivation were seen; but the land had been thoroughly exhausted by slave labor, and given up as worthless, long before the people called the “Blaggs” had huddled there.
Hinna made her way to the old house in which she was born, and, tired with her long journey, and dispirited at the wretchedness around, sat down to rest on the low door-stone. There she sat a long time in silence, with her elbows supported by her knees, and her face buried in her hands. 
“I’d be mighty glad to find suthin’ to love, here,” at length she said to herself, and some unwiped tears stood on her stern features, “but how ken I? Here’s the old shed where my father an’ mother lived, and where I was born. It’s most gone to ruin now, an’ it never was tight an’ warm. How the rain would sift down on us, and the cold wind whistle through! Oh, what dreadful times! No work, an’ nothin’ but starvation before us! My poor father an’ mother would sit down in the corner, and talk over their troubles; ‘pears like, I can see’em there now; and fine’ly they took to drinkin’, to drown trouble like, as the rest of the Blaggs does, an’ they killed themselves before I was grown up, an’ that was the last of them! Oh, how long the hungry days was, when father and mother lay drunk, or when they was stupid an’ cross for want of food an’ whiskey-dreadful days! After awhile, I began to hunt, an’ to wander off at night, an’ pick up suthin’ to eat in the planter’s corn fields; for we had to steal or starve, an’ if we could only steal without being found out, we thought it was well enough; for havin’ no work to do, we had more time to be lazy and to drink. I never would drink the horrid stuff-glad of that, though father an’ mother would scold and beat me for’t. Yis, yis,” continued Hinna, “we was worse an’ worse off than most slaves; but then we did n’t want to be slaves, for all that. We knew we were bad off, but we didn’t wanter work for nothin’, an’ be sold, an’ be whipt, an’ driv to death by overseers; we’d rather die our own way; for <illegible> how thar’s suthin’, I don’t know what ‘tis, makes us druther to be free, if we aint so well off for ‘t.”
She now entered the little crumbling cabin: it was built of sticks, mud and logs, with sand heaped upon the outside. 
“Yis,” said Hinna, “here I lived, and here I almost died! Here I tasted what the poor whites suffer! An’ only to think how much better off I is now than the rest of them; an’ I aint naturally a mite better. If I was a Christian, I’d order thank the Father for givin’ me a chance to git a livin’; but I aint! 
“Now, here I’m back again with my poor people, an’ it makes me feel worse than I thought for. How dreadful things looks! An’ there’s that whiskey! burnin’ them up, an’ making them care ‘nothin’ bout doing any better. 
“If they only had religion to help ‘em, like some o’ the poor slave people, ‘praps they could give it up,” she added, as if a new idea struck her; “there’s nothin’ like religion to help poor folks, they say.
“But, then, how is they to get religion when-they keeps dead drunk all the time! That’s the question!” and brightness passed again from her face.
Being somewhat rested, Hinna now walked about the little <illegible> making observations.
<c04>
The night wore slowly away, and Hinna had much time to plan her mode of operations. A less determined nature would have sought occasion to sleep, but her heart was too wide awake and her head too busy to allow her this refreshment.
“I’ve hit upon it now!” she at length exclaimed: “they’ll git up late an’ stupid, an’ they’ll have nothin’ to eat. I’ll jest step over to the nearest plantation, and git somethin’ for their breakfast We uster have nothin’ to eat in the mornin’, but gruel, and may be, if I feed ‘em up with a good hearty meal, they’ll have more courage to hear what I has to say to ‘em. Poor Jaff! I blamed him too hard, for what I know,-he hadn’t eat nothin’ so long, and livin’ on whiskey is doleful business. They aint used to eatin’, no ways; some on ‘em is half sick, an’ their drinkin’ has a most burnt up their stomachs, so they can’t relish only little food at a time, I guess. Hinna can bring enough.” 
In due time she reached the designated plantation, and purchased a variety of provisions, dried beef, boiled ham, eggs, butter and bread; and the kind planter, learning her purpose, sent a couple of his servants to help carry the plentiful store, and assist her as she might need. About seven o’clock, the party reached the settlement, and set themselves about preparing the repast. They made a table by putting old doors on empty whiskey barrels. This they placed near the shanty where Hinna was born. A single pine had found footing there, and cast quite an ambitious shade. The table was nearly in readiness, the beef and bacon nicely sliced, the bread and butter spread, and a kettle of water boiling to cook the eggs, before a solitary Blagg was stirring. 
“Well,” said Hinna, as she put on the finishing touches to the arranging of the table, “I wish these ere lazy people knew there was somethin’ to git up for! We shall hafter wait breakfast, after all.” 
Just then, Jaff put his fuzzy head out of his cabin door, and in great surprise, as he rubbed open his eyes, asked, “What’s the matter?” 
“A good breakfast is the matter!” replied Hinna, “somethin’ that never was the matter here before! Come, wake up, Jaff, and run round, an’ roust the people! Tell ‘em Hinna’s come to pay ‘em a visit, an’ she’s brought ‘em a bite of somethin’ to eat.”
As soon as the news got wind, men, women and children came pouring out in the greatest confusion. 
“Why, hi!” exclaimed Hinna, as she saw the group gathering about the table, “who ever thought there was so many of ye! Wall, I reckon you’ll find I’ve got more breakfast than your stomachs can speak for! Come, fall to, an’ let’s see what you think of such fare,” and the ferry-woman, with a pleased look, arranged them around the table, and bade them help themselves. She directly saw that the children were most hungry, and set herself industriously at work to supply their wants. 
Meanwhile one of the servants, having boiled the eggs, helped Hinna wait on the children, who knew not what to make of such a feast.
The grown people-the fathers and mothers-made wretched work eating. Hinna had rightly judged they could have little appetite, but she was shocked and disheartened when she saw how small the quantity they ate. The children, however, gave her new courage. 
“That’s right,” she said, as one and another called for more; “eat, an’ you’ll grow! Eat, an’ you’ll be smart to work! But mind what I say, don’t never touch a drop of whiskey, not one single drop! Mind what I say! It’ll make fools of you, an’ you won’t know nothin’, and then it’ll kill you off right quick!” 
“I reckon I see how ‘tis,” soliloquized Hinna, “it’ll be just no earthly use tryin’ to help these ere old uns that’s got their taste set for strong drink; too late for them. It’ll be jest no earthly use at all. But if we could only take the youngsters, an’ find good places for’em, and plenty of work, an’ have ‘em well provided with clothes an’ food, they’ll do well, I’d venture ‘em! They’d do suthin’. But then, where’s the places? I don’t know, I makes sure.”
When the Blaggs had finished their meal, and the hungry hum of the children was hushed by a supply of food, Hinna told them all to be seated around the cabin’ that she might have a talk with them. When they were all seated, she said,-
“Most all of you what’s old ‘nuff remembers me. I was a Blagg onct myself. You knows I’s got into business, an’ makes a good livin’. Now I wanter know some on you wouldn’t like a chance to do the same?” 
“Yis, that I would,” said one man.
“So should I,” said another.
“And I,” echoed a third. 
“Do you know if anybody has got any work for us?” eagerly asked a sharp, thin-faced woman. 
“There’s work enough an’ pay enough to be had,” replied Hinna, “if only you’ll go where you ken find it.” 
“Whar’s that?” inquired another of the more sprightly women. 
“All you have got to do is to have as much life as the slaves has,” replied Hinna, “and set out for the North, like they does.” 
“Why, we can’t do that!” said an able-bodied, large-framed man, lazily smoking his stump of a pipe, “we can’t traipse way off there!”
“We mought as well die one way as t’other,” added a second; “we can’t stand it ter travel!”
“I’ll tell you what I will do,” said Hinna, encouragingly; “if any of you’ll set out, I’ll take you a hundred miles, or so, in my boat, and give you some money and vittles to help you on your journey. And more’n all that, I’ll help fit you out with clothes to start with! Come, that’s a good offer; who’ll go?”
But none of the degraded beings who listlessly sat around the cabin seemed to think there was anything at all attractive in the offer, save two or three of the more enterprising women.
But as they were the main stay of their families, their brutalized husbands, of course, would not hear to their seeking work and pay in a distant country, and still less of emigrating with them. Hinna looked at the abject company before her in sorrow and disappointment.
A more helpless set of paupers could scarcely be found: bloated, sick, unsightly with almost every form of disease, covered with filth and vermin, and their rags did not half protect them.
“You poor critters!” at length she exclaimed, bursting into tears, “I can’t do nothin’ for yer!”
“Thar’s the Lord Jesus could help ‘em, if they’d let him!” outspoke one of the slaves, also in tears.
“The Lor’ Jesus!” repeated a middle-aged decrepit man, “who’s he?”
“Why, every body knows ‘bout Him!” replied the slave in amazement, “haint you never hearn tell of the Lord Jesus?”
“No,” said the man, “never heared his name afore.”
“Why,” said the slave, the tears coming afresh, “how does you poor folks live? He’s all the comfort the poor black folks has.” 
“What good does he do?” asked a woman who sat near by.
“Why, he hears us when we pray-he lives in heaven, an’ we feels so happy when we tells him all that troubles us.”
“How you sure he lives thar?” asked one; “an’ how you sure he hears you?”
“Oh,” said the sable missionary, “we knows he does, ‘cause we feels so happy, an’ once a great while age he lived in this world, an’ suffered as much as any of us, an’ was poor for our sakes, an’ died that jest such sinners as we is might live with him in heaven.” 
“Why, hi!” exclaimed one of the paupers, “who is he? why didn’t nobody tell us ‘bout him afore?
 “He’s Gon,” replied the black solemnly, “the Lord Jesus, he’s God!”
“Don’t he feel too big for us poor folks?” asked Jaff.
“No indeed, it’s the poor he loves best, an’ he’s dat pitiful to ‘em.”
“But if you pray to him for comfort,” interposed Hinna, “you’ll have to give up drinkin’ whiskey, else he wont hear ye.”
<c05>
“Give up drinkin’ whiskey!” said Jaff, “we can’t do that, in course; it’s all our comfort.”
“Jaff!” said Hinna vehemently, “nobody can’t do anything for you, as long as you drink so.”
“Well,” said Jaff, “can’t stop, for it ‘ud kill me.”
“I don’t see as you’ll let me do anything for you,” replied Hinna, again looking around on the group with a disappointed air, “but I come a purpose, an’ I’d be glad to help you, but I can’t, an’ I must be gwine. It’s no use-it’s no earthly use.”
A half-dozen voices urged her to stay longer.
“It wouldn’t be of any sort of use,” was the ferry-woman’s reply. “I don’t reckon any of you’ll let me do nothin’ for you to help you get a livin’. You’re all determined to drink.”
“We can’t live without it,” said one.
“It ‘ud kill us to give it up,” said another.
“It ‘ll kill you rapid to keep on drinkin,” said Hinna earnestly. “You’re down for’t, every soul of you, if you don’t stop.”
“Wall,” replied Jaff, “we mought as well die one way as another; it’ll kill us to stop.”
“An’ I don’t reckon you’d any of you let me get places for these ‘‘ere little children,” replied Hinna, looking at them pitifully.
“Yis, we’d be glad ‘nuff to git shed of the youngsters,” answered Jaff, “if you ken find ‘‘em places.”
“Yis,” said another, “let ‘em go if they can only ‘arn suthin’ to eat-it’s like it’d be better than to have ‘em starvin’.
“Well.” replied Hinna, “I’ll be gwine, an’ see what I ken do for ‘em. But there! I must divide what’s left of your breakfast, or you’ll be quarrelling like cats an’ dogs”; and with her usual efficiency the ferry woman portioned out the remnants, and sent them to the different cabins.
“Doan go yit! doan go yit!” said a number of little voices, “why can’t you live with us, an’ tell us more?”
“Live with you!” exclaimed Hinna, “what have you got to live on? We’d starve; we couldn’t do like the rest of you, steal for a livin’! No, no, we can’t live with you, an’ you must all try to earn your livin’ when I gits places for you”; and the ferrywoman departed. The abjects looked after her in bewildered surprise, and, clustering into groups, sitting down on heaps of sand, lazily discussed the strange visit the remainder of the day.
“There’s one man I know of,” said Hinna to herself, as she was leaving, “ that’ll know how to help the poor Blaggs, if anybody can, and I might as well call round and see, while I ‘m about it; ‘twill take some longer, but I reckon Dilly ‘ll be safe.”
She then made a long journey in the direction of Mount Pleasant, which she reached late on the second day. She sought an immediate interview with king Brownlee, respecting what could be done for her people. She had great confidence in his judgment, being well-informed of his benevolent plans for his slaves. The king attentively listened to her recital of the state in which she found them at her late visit, manifesting a deep interest in their welfare. It was no new question with him, what could be done for these people, but one he had often revolved, without, however, coming nearer a solution; and, in effect, he told Hinna that he saw no help for them in the circumstances.
“They are buried,” said he, “under the ruins of the social fabric; and while we hear them groaning beneath the rubbish, we cannot get at them to raise them, until the remains of humanity above them are removed.”
“Buried under the slaves!” exclaimed the ferry-woman; “well, I reckon that’s the trouble-’cause if there warnt no slaves, the poor whites could have business enough.” 
“We planters can and ought to tax ourselves generously to support this class,” continued the king, “just as other paupers are supported in other communities. The system by which we thrive is death to them. It is not the slave alone we harm by upholding slavery, but our white neighbors; that is, whoever chances to be poor among us. I have often made efforts to arouse interest on the subject of succoring the poor whites, but could never accomplish anything. My opinion is, that nothing effective can be done, under the present condition of things. Now and then one might be reclaimed, if there were only those who could put forth the requisite persevering and almost superhuman exertion. But where are these individuals, and who are they? Our system is destructive of these qualities, and rarely do we find them among us.”
“Can’t nothin’ be done to save their children?” asked Hinna.
“Yes, if there were not this slavery in the way,” replied the king, “I could myself do something to help them. I would employ scores of them, and train them up to good habits, if I had not my hands more than full in attending to my servants. 
“I will give you money to help them as you see them need,” he added, “but it will be only a temporary relief. It will add some comforts to their existence, but in no sense elevate them. It will not remove the evil.”
“Well,” said Hinna with a sigh, “I was afraid nothin’ could be done. When will the slaves all be free, and there be some chance for the poor whites?”
“I tear not very soon,” replied Mr. Brownlee, “but we must hope for the best. I see no immediate prospect of a better state of things, save from the special interposition of Providence.” 
It was with a heavy heart that Hinna took leave. She had a faint hope, when she set out on her benevolent mission to the wretched settlement of her birth, that something might be done for her unhappy people. The utter futility of any such expectations she now saw with painful distinctness. This fact stood out unrelieved and stern, as with sad emotions and sober mien she pursued her way homeward, every now and then saying with a sigh-
“No help for the poor Blaggs!”
BOOLE AND THE BLACKS.
A few evenings since, F. I. A. Boole, the Democratic candidate for Mayor, called a meeting of the colored voters of this city, and delivered an address to them, in which be solicited their support at the coming election. He pledged his word of honor that he would exert his utmost endeavors to do away with the odious usage of driving colored persons from the cars, as practised by the Directors of the Eighth Avenue Railroad, and to do all in his power to protect the negroes not only from mob violence, but to shield them in the exercise of their just rights and privileges. He assured his hearers (less than one hundred in number) that he did not appeal to them in order to make a sure thing of his election, for whatever disposition they might make of their ballots, he should be elected, but he was willing to place himself on record as the friend of the colored man. We have this report from a very intelligent and trustworthy colored man who attended the meeting, and who heard the promise made by Mr. Boole. This is another straw showing the drift of public sentiment. Six months ago, no Democratic candidate for State or Municipal distinction would have risked his reputation by canvassing for the votes of colored persons, but Mr. Boole did not hesitate to have his intention announced from the pulpits of the colored churches, and in accordance with that announcement, he met those who chose to attend the meeting. Among the prominent men of color present, belonging to this city, was the Rev. H. H. Garnet, who asked several questions, and received replies which he considered satisfactory. Shortly after this meeting was held, a colored regiment reached this city, and marched through the streets unmolested; another fact showing the rapid advance of public sentiment.-N. Y. Tribune.
MR. BOOLE AND THE BLACKS-FURTHER PARTICULARS.
The meeting of Alderman Boole with the colored voters of this city took place on Monday, the 23d ult., in the Metropolitan Assembly Rooms, the Rev. H. H. Garnet (colored) in the chair. After a few introductory remarks by the Chairman in relation to the object of the meeting, the Rev. Mr. Boole, brother of the present candidate for the Mayoralty, F. I. A. Boole, arose and made a speech, in which he said that he was an Abolitionist, and that his brother was the friend of the colored man, and would exert the utmost of his endeavors to protect the persons and the property of the colored residents of this city. While the reverend gentleman was speaking, Alderman F. I. A. Boole came into the room, and in the course of the meeting
<c06>
he was called out. He remarked that he was a practical man, and not a speaker; that he came to the meeting, not for the purpose of making a speech, but to answer any questions that his auditors chose to ask him, whereupon the Rev. Mr. Garnet arose and asked the following question:
If the colored people make an effort at Albany, during the coming session of the Legislature, to secure the same rights that are accorded to white persons in our city cars, will you lend your influence to accomplish that object?
Mr. Boole replied in the affirmative.
The Rev. Mr. Williams (colored) of Brooklyn then asked Mr. Boole if he was in favor of negro suffrage.
Mr. Boole replied with emphasis, that he was in favor of negro suffrage; and he furthermore stated that he considered colored persons, more intelligent voters than the Irish, and that he was in favor of diminishing the political influence of the Irish in this city.
In consequence of this pledge of fidelity to the colored people of this city, the Anglo-African, the organ of the colored citizens of New York, advocates his election. Fernando Wood made similar promises, but failed to keep them. We place the pledge of Mr. Boole on record, so that in the event of his election, his honesty, humanity and mettle may be tested. In the course of the coming winter, efforts will be made to remove the odious distinction made by the Directors of the Eighth Avenue Railroad in relation to colored passengers on their cars. In the opinion of eminent jurists, the Company have forfeited their charter, and should Mr. Boole be elected Mayor, he will have the privilege of throwing the weight of his influence into the scale of equity, and assisting to render justice to an injured class of our citizens.-Tribune.
ABE LINCOLN A STATESMAN. So says Richard Yates, Governor of Illinois, at a late Union meeting in New York, who had been in close intimacy with the President for twenty-five years. “If we had won at Bull Run, and speedily put down the rebellion, the Union would have been restored with slavery; but it was not in the councils of Almighty God that this question should ever be settled until slavery was abolished forever!” (Applause.) “I said Mr. Lincoln moved too slow, entirely; but I found he could not move faster than Providence, and he had to move just as he did.” “I believe he was the instrument in the hands of God to lead his chosen people to the banks of deliverance on the other side.” “You remember the triumphant song of Miriam upon the other side.” “And when I sent my flaming dispatch to Mr. Lincoln- ‘Issue your proclamation of confiscation, and call out a million of men,’ Old Abe telegraphed back to me, ‘Dick, hold still, and see the salvation of the Lord!’” (Loud and long-continued cheers.)
COMING ROUND. At a war meeting held in Worcester, Mass., a few days since, Col. Issac Davis, one of the leading Democrats in the State, said, in the course of a speech made on the occasion:-
“Allusions have been made, by the eloquent officer who has just taken his seat, to the subject of slavery. I don’t propose to say anything about that matter. It is an institution I abhor and loathe. As an institution, it is between the upper and nether mill-stones, and will be ground to powder. [Great applause.] If this foul blot is erased, we will forever shout ‘glory!’ ‘hallelujah!’ The present is the greatest conspiracy of which we have any account since angels undertook to overthrow the Almighty.”
In the rebel Congress, on the 8th inst., Mr. Foote, of Tennessee, said that the President never visited the army without doing it injury. Never has he visited any of our armies but that it has been followed by disaster. He charged him with almost having ruined the country, and he would meet his champions anywhere to discuss it. He accused Commissioner Northrop with having starved the enemy’s prisoners, and with stealthily placing the Confederate government in the attitude charged by the enemy. From the 1st to the 26th of November, meat was furnished to the prisoners very irregularly. For 12 days the supply was inadequate, and for 8 days they got none at all. He demanded the removal of Northrup, for the honor of the country.
Gen. Butler has issued a lengthy order relative to colored troops, the effect of which is to call upon male negroes to fight for the freedom of their race, and to instruct every officer and soldier in his command to aid the coming of all colored persons into our lines. Negro soldiers are to be paid a bounty of $10, and $10 per month, while their families are to be furnished with subsistence. Gen. Butler, in his order, calls upon Congress to place colored troops on an equality with other troops of the United States. Superintendents of negro affairs are appointed to oversee those negroes unfit for soldiers, in labor for public service, for which they are to be paid.
Advices from Texas, received at the headquarters of Gen. Banks, and by him forwarded to Washington, state that Gen. Washburn has captured Fort Esperanza, at Pass Caballo, Matagords Bay, and taken ten guns, ranging from 24 to 128 Pounders. The rebel garrison of 1000 men escaped, after blowing up the magazine. The Union forces drove them out of all their outworks, and advanced our sharpshooters well up to the Fort before they evacuated. The Fort is a large and complete work, bomb proof, and partially cased with railroad iron. It is said that the command of Matagorda Bay gives us substantially the control of Central and Western Texas, and all the important points on the east coast, except Galveston. 
CURIOUS SCENE IN A CHURCH. In the First Presbyterian Church, Newburyport, recently, a Deacon of the church, a life-long democrat, was highly indignant at the singing of the “President’s Hymn,” written by Dr. Muhlenberg especially for the occasion. He arose in his seat, and demanded by whose authority the hymn was sung, which occasioned a smile to pass over the faces of the congregation. Not having received a satisfactory answer, he left the church.
Dr. Sears, President of Brown University, in a speech lately at a review of a colored regiment of artillery, speaking of the equality of races, said: “In a steamer crossing the English channel, an Englishman, after discoursing at length upon this subject, closed by saying. ‘I thank God that I am an Englishman.’ A Frenchman sitting by replied, ‘I tank God that you are a Englishman, too.’ That is the philosophical way of settling such questions of the races.”
GREAT MORTALITY. The diptheria is said to be raging with fearful violence in Cambria county, New York. There is scarcely a family in Clearfield and White townships, which has not lost one or more members by the disease. In one grave-yard, a short distance from Holiday’s Mill, over two hundred graves have been made within a month.
“It may seem strange,” writes a correspondent with the Army of the Potomac, “but I have met many citizens even in Culpepper country, Va, who had never seen the star-spangled banner previous to the coming of Meade’s army.”
English writers are working up the American war into all sorts of shapes, among the rest into novels, in one of which Henry Ward Beecher figures as Rev. Mr. Hardpreacher; and Miss Dickinson, the orator, as Caroline Cleverball.
The Queen of England has sent a gold cup, salver and knife and fork to her god-daughter, formerly Miss Bonetta Forbes, and a great favorite of hers, who is now married to Mr. Davis of Lagos, a colored merchant.
One of the most magnificent entertainments ever given in this country was given on board the Russian fleet, at Alexandria, on the 12th inst., to the members of Congress, by the Russian Minister.
PERSONAL. Rev. Jacob M. Manning, pastor of the Old South Church, and late chaplain of the 43d Massachusetts regiment, preached on Sunday morning, 13th inst., for the first time in his pulpit since his recovery from his long continued and dangerous illness.
Both the contending armies in Virginia are busily engaged in constructing huts for winter quarters-Lee on the Rapidan, and Meade between Brandy Station and the Rappahannock.
Rebel advices from Charleston are to 10th inst. Gen. Gillmore had thrown thirty or forty more shells into the city, and several buildings were struck. The rebel batteries were firing heavily on our works.
A meeting of Virginia refugees, held at Washington last Wednesday night, was addressed by a brother of John Brown.

BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50; People’s edition, $1.
II. HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT L’OUVERTURE: a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH’S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. $1.00.
V. HENRY WARD BEECHER’S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 10c.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown. $1.00.
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications send to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. R. F. WALLCUT,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
