THE LIBERATOR 
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS— Two dollars and fifty cents per an <illegible> in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents— one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 2 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1516.
SELECTIONS.
<c01>
THE MILITIA LAW AS AMENDED—VETO OF GOV. BANKS—OPINION OF THE SUPREME COURT.
The following is the concluding portion of the recent Veto of Gov. Banks upon a bill entitled 'An Act for Revising and Consolidating the General Statutes of the Commonwealth' of Massachusetts:—
In the controversy upon the adoption of the Federal Constitution in this, as in other States, very earnest debate arose upon the question, what powers were reserved to the States, and the Constitution was finally adapted by the requisite number of States, with an understanding that the provisions afterwards embodied in Article Tenth of Amendments should be incorporated into the Constitution, to wit: 'The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. 'The division of powers, therefore, is perfectly clear so far as the subject is concerned. That which is not granted to the General Government, nor incident to the powers granted, is reserved to the States, unless expressly prohibited.
The power to 'provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively the appointment of officers and the training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress. 'is one of the powers expressly conceded to the Federal government in the first article, eighth section of the Constitution of the United States.
The power granted in express terms to the Federal government by this section of the Constitution is that: of 'organizing, arming and disciplining the militia:' that reserved to the States is the appointment of officers, and the authority of training the militia, 'according to the discipline prescribed by Congress. 'The power to organize includes that of determining what classes of persons shall be so organized; and this has been determined by an act of Congress approved May 8, 1792, entitled 'An act more effectually to provide for the mutual defence, by establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States.'
The persons who, by these provisions of the Constitution and Legislature of the United States, are to be organized, armed and disciplined as an uniform militia throughout the United States, are 'each and every free able-bodied white male citizen of the respective States, resident therein, who is or shall be of the age of 18 years, and under the age of 40 years. 'it is not, in my judgement, within the power of the Legislature to change this basis of enrollment, or enlarge or diminish the classes of men embraced in this organization of the militia. It is not sufficient answer to say that, in changing the phraseology of the statute of the United States in the enactment of our own militia laws, we still leave public officers, in the enrollment of the militia, to follow the laws of the United States, without committing the people of this State to a recognition of distinctions between men that are not acceptable. The militia is a national institution.
In all that pertains to organization, arming and disciplining the milita, our laws are but a republication of the laws of the United States, for the information and instruction of the citizens of this State; and if in this republication we misrepresent the law, we lead them into innumerable and remediless difficulties and constantly embarrass the administration of our laws. Still less it is to be urged, that assuming a recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States to be rash, that certain persons are not citizens, and therefore their exclusion need not be expressed or implied in our re-enactment of the militia laws. The statutes of the Commonwealth are yet free from the most distant recognition of the doctrines of that decision, and I trust may forever so remain.
For these reasons, believing the changes proposed in the basis of enrollment to be palpably in contravention of constitutional law, and that they cannot be executed by this department of the government without an infringement of the Constitution which I have sworn to support, I have thought it an imperative duty to withhold Executive approval—and I therefore return the Bill to the House in which it originated, that it may be considered by the Legislature, conformably to the provisions of the Constitution of this State.
Under ordinary circumstances, I should not hesitate, in a case like the present, to act upon my own judgement; but, inasmuch as a disapproval of the legislative proposition to which I have referred imposes upon me the necessity of rejecting, without discrimination, every statute approved by my predecessors, from the foundation of the government, and every amendment proposed by the present Legislature, I have thought it to be my duty, not only to give to the subject the most serious consideration, but to seek direction from the high legal authorities which the Constitution and laws enable me to consult.
It is necessary for me to ask of the Legislature a candid consideration of these able State papers. They cannot be too carefully considered by legislators or by the people. It is unnecessary for me to call the attention of the Legislature, in view of the rugged paths of national life upon which, too obviously, we are entering, to the expediency of maintaining the institution of the militia, and perpetuating the harmony of feeling and interest of its members, with the principles and institutions of the Government, of which as citizens and soldiers they are a cheap support.
Nor is it necessary to enlarge upon the expediency, in every consideration of public policy, of a constant and faithful adherence to constitutional obligations. We can present no more reliable evidence of strength than the fact, that we can maintain our own privileges without invading the rights of others; and for a State inflexibly determined to submit to nothing wrong, there is no safer rule of action than to ask nothing that is not right.
I requested the Attorney General, therefore, to prepare an opinion upon two propositions, which I have the honor to transmit to the Legislature, and subsequently, upon the request of the Governor and Council, the Supreme Court submitted an opinion upon the same questions, which has been transmitted to me by the Honorable Chief Justice of that Court, and which I have the honor now to lay before the two Houses of the Legislature. These opinions are elaborate, learned and decided. That of the Supreme Court embodies one of the most luminous and learned expositions of the relations of the State and Federal governments of the origin, nature and purpose of the institution of the militia of the United States, and of this Commonwealth, that judicial history presents.
The assessors of the several cities and towns, are annually required, in the month of May, to make a list of persons liable to enrollment; to place a certified copy thereof in the hands of the clerks of their respective towns and cities, and to transmit returns of the militia thus enrolled to the Adjutant General. A certified copy of the returns is annually transmit-
<c02>
ted to the Government at Washington by the Governor of this Commonwealth.
The militia thus enrolled are liable to be called into active service at any moment, in case of war, of invasion, to prevent invasion, for the suppression of riots and to aid civil officers in the execution of the laws of the Commonwealth. It seems to me to be a public wrong of the highest character, by an incorrect statement of the law, to mislead civil officers in the performance of their duties, or to require of the Governor of the Commonwealth to transmit to the Department of War an enrollment palpably in conflict with the laws of the United States.
NATHANIEL P. BANKS.
After the message was read, the clerk proceeded to read the Attorney General's opinion, which concludes as follows:
I, therefore, most respectfully submit, as the result of my investigations, that—
1. The Legislature of this Commonwealth cannot constitutionally provide for the enrollment in the militia of any persons other than those enumerated in the act of Congress, approved May 8, 1792, entitled 'An act more effectually to provide for national defence, by establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States.'
2. The aforesaid act of Congress, as to all matters therein provided for, and except as amended by subsequent acts, has the force of law in this Commonwealth. In the absence, or even conflict of State legislation, all military officers, under the State government, are bound by its provisions, and must render both active and passive obedience. All officers whose functions are purely civil must obey it as the paramount law of the land, and cannot obstruct its execution; but they cannot without consistent State legislation be required to enforce it, or to lend the fluence or authority of their offices in carrying it into effect.
[Signed] STEPHEN H. PHILLIPS,
Attorney General.
The opinion of the Supreme Court was then read. It is as follows:
INTERROGATORIES 
PROPOUNDED BY ORDER OF THE GOVERNOR AND COUNCIL TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT.
Whether the Legislature of this Commonwealth can constitutionally provide for the enrollment in the militia of any persons other than those enumerated in the Act of Congress, approved May 8,1792, entitled 'An Act more effectually to provide for the national defence, by establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States'?
Whether the aforesaid Act of Congress, as to all matters therein provided for, and except as amended by subsequent Acts, has such force in this Commonwealth, independently of or notwithstanding any State legislation, that all officers under the State government, civil and military, are bound by its provisions?
The undersigned. Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, having considered the above stated interrogatories, propounded to them by the Governor and Council, do hereby, in answer thereto, respectfully submit the following opinion:
The Constitution of the United States having charged the general government with the administration of the foreign relations of the whole Union, and the military defence of the whole, provides, (article 1, section 8,) 'That Congress shall have power to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrection, and repel invasions: to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the States, respectively, the appointment of the officers, and the authority of training the militia, according to the discipline prescribed by Congress.'
'Organizing' obviously includes the power of determining who shall compose the body known as the militia. The general principle is, that a militia shall consist of the able-bodied male citizens. But this description is too vague and indefinite to be laid down as a practical rule; it requires a provision of positive law to ascertain the exact age, which shall be deemed neither too young nor too old to come within the description. One body of legislators might think the suitable ages to be from 18 to 19, others from 16 to 30 or 40, others from 20 to 50. Here the power is given to the general government to fix the age precisely, and thereby to put an end to doubt and uncertainty; and the power to determine who shall compose the militia, when executed, equally determines who shall not be embraced in it, because all not selected are necessarily excluded.
The question upon the construction of this provision of the Constitution is, whether this power to determine who shall compose the militia is exclusive. And we are of opinion that it is. A power when vested in the general government is not only exclusive when it is so declared in terms, or when the State is prohibited from the exercise of the like power, but also when the exercise of the same power by the State is superseded, and necessarily impracticable and impossible after its exercise by the general government. For instance, when the general government have exercised their power to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy, that is, laws for sequestering and administering the estate of a living insolvent debtor; when one set of commissioners and assignees of each estate have taken possession of property, with power to sell and dispose of it, and distribute the proceeds, another set of officers, under another law, cannot take and dispose of the same property. The one power is necessarily repugnant to the other; if one is paramount, the other is void. We think the present case is similar. The general government having authority to determine who shall and who may not compose the militia, and having so determined, the State government has no legal authority to prescribe a different enrollment.
This power was early carried into execution by the act of Congress of May, 1782, being an 'Act more effectually to provide for the national defence, by establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States.' This act specially directs who shall be, and by necessary implication, who may not be enrolled in the militia. This is strengthened by a provision, that each State may by law exempt persons embraced in the class for enrollment, according as the peculiar form and particular organization of its separate government may require; but there is no such provision for adding to the class to be enrolled.
We are therefore of opinion that the Legislature of the Commonwealth cannot constitutionally provide for the enrollment in the militia of any persons other than those enumerated in the act of Congress of May, 1792, hereinbefore cited.
We do not intend, by the foregoing opinion, to exclude the existence of a power in the State, to provide by law for arming and equipping other bodies of men for special service of keeping guard, and making defence, under special exigencies or otherwise, in any case not coming within the prohibition of that clause in the Constitution, article 1, section 10, which withholds from the State the power 'to
<c03>
keep troops; 'but such bodies, however armed or organized, could not be deemed any part of 'The Militia, 'as contemplated and understood in the Constitution and laws of Massachusetts and of the United States, and, as we understand, in the question propounded for our consideration. Nor is this question, in our opinion, affected by the article 2 of the amendments of the Constitution of the following tenor: 'A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.'
This, like similar provisions in our own declaration of rights, declares a great general right, leaving it for other more specific constitutional provision or to legislation to provide for the preservation and practical security of such right, and for influencing and governing the judgment and conscience of all legislators and magistrates, who are thus required to recognize and respect such rights.
In answer to the second question proposed, we are of opinion that the Act of Congress above cited, as to all matters therein provided for, except so far as it may have been changed by subsequent acts, has such force in this Commonwealth, independently of and notwithstanding any State legislation, that all officers under the State government, civil and military, are bound by its provisions.
LEMUEL SHAW,
THERON METCALF,
GEORGE T. BIGELOW,
PLINY MERBICK,
EBENEZER R. HOAR,
BOSTON, Dec. 23, 1859.
The Clerk then read the provision of the Constitution, relating to the action of the Legislature, and the Speaker put the question: Shall the bill pass, notwithstanding the Governor's objection?
Mr. WENTWORTH, of Lowell, after some preliminary remarks, said the House now has before it the opinion of the Supreme Court, and it has knowledge that the law, if passed, cannot be enforced; for the moment a question is raised under it, it will be decided to be unconstitutional. We are called on to review our action. Mr. W. proceeded to review former legislation on the subject. He said that the bill should be rejected; and then a new bill could be introduced, passed in half an hour, and so the assent of all branches of the Government be obtained to the statutes.
Mr. SPOFFORD, of Newburyport, referred to the action of the minority in opposing the striking out of the word 'white.' Now, said he, we are backed up by the Republican Governor and by the opinion of the Supreme Court. He hoped that the Legislature would retrace its steps without delay.
Mr. TUCKER, of Boston, said he felt much better to-day than yesterday. He had been sneered at yesterday by the gentleman from Boston (Mr. Kimball), as being one of the immortal five who voted against the bill yesterday. Mr. Kimball, however, was more consistent than the gentleman from Newburyport, (Mr. Spofford,) who could not see the unconstitutionally of the law yesterday, for he voted for it. (Great laughter.)
Mr. TUCKER proceeded to express his admiration of the veto power, and to hope that the House would not reject the bill.
Mr. RUSSELL, of Boston, said he should vote to sustain the veto, but he rebuked the assumption of the gentleman of the Democratic party in claiming greater wisdom and reverence for the Constitution than other men.
Mr. KIMBALL, of Boston, said he was not going to dissent from the opinions of the Supreme Court or the Attorney General, but he should not yield his personal opinion, which was that the law was not unconstitutional. Has it occurred to the Governor, when he certifies to the enrollment, that all the provisions of the United States law have not always been complied with? Perhaps not. But when the cry of 'Nigger, nigger' is raised, great alarm is taken, and extraordinary samples all at once spring up.
Mr. KIMBALL then read from an opinion of the Supreme Court in 1838, which he deemed to be at variance, in some respects, with the one now given. He was glad, for his part, that at least the State of Massachusetts was the first to inform Congress that an amendment of its law was desirable. He believed that it was not unconstitutional to strike out the word 'white.' It is the State's concern, at least until the militia is called into service.
The Legislature had responded to the popular demand. If the colored man is not a citizen, as the Dred Scott decision says, then we don't enrol him.
In conclusion, he said he should be willing to yield his real opinions.
Mr. GRIFFIN, of Malden, congratulated the Republican majority upon the fact that their Governor had converted the Union-saving majority to Union and Constitution doctrines.
The gentleman from Newburyport, brought up at the feet of the Gamaliel of Union-savers, had himself been converted. (Great laughter) Mr. G. proceeded to say that on the questions submitted to the Supreme Court, they were clearly right. But the question submitted to the Court was not the question involved in the present law. The Legislature had not said, that any persons excluded by the law of Congress shall be enrolled. Our law must be interpreted according to the law of Congress, which enrols it.
We have not said that 'colored' should be inserted, in place of white. Mr. G. said he was not in the House when the section was voted on, but he should have voted for it if he had been present. He did not, however, regard the question as of much importance. It was a matter of some regret that we could not have the services of colored men, for, judging by Gov. Wise's speech to the sawbones, he thought they would strike more terror into Virginia than any white force.
He has quoted Gov. Wise's remarks, in which he expresses his regret that he had not a steamer in Hampton roads, with which to pursue the British steamer, and capture Fred. Douglass. It is a misfortune that he cannot have Douglass, with a Sharp's rifle to defend the State House. 
Mr. SPOFFORD of Newburyport replied to Mr. GRIFFIN, as to his conversion by the Republican Governor. He said that he was induced to vote for the statutes, in spite of the objectionable clause. He claimed not only to be consistent, but far-sighted. When the question came before him, whether he would accept or reject the whole work, he could not refuse to do what the public necessity seemed to re-require, simply because there was one obnoxious, and as he deemed unconstitutional provision.
Believing this clause to be unconstitutional, he knew it would be pronounced null and void by the court, and so he did not vote to enforce any unconstitutional law. Mr. Spofford proceeded to express his obligation to Gov. Banks as a friend of the Constitution.
On motion of Mr. WARREN of Weston, the previous question was then ordered.
The question was then stated: 'Shall the bill be passed, the objections of the Governer to the contrary notwithstanding?'
The Constitution requiring that the question shall be decided by a yea and nay vote, the roll was called by the Clerk.
<c04>
The Home then refused to pass the bill, by a vote of 46 yeas to 146 nays.
Mr. <illegible> of Lowell asked leave to introduce a bill, and leave being granted, the same was read for information. The bill was the same as that vetoed by the Governor, with the exception of the word white.
Mr. WENTWORTH then moved that the rules be suspended, so that the bill should take its several readings at the present time. This motion was agreed to.
Mr. KIMBALL of Boston said he earnestly protested against being sold for a small matter of expediency, but he did not see how it could be helped under the circumstances. He did not want to lose the whole revision.
After a very brief discussion between Messrs. TUCKER of Boston, and Mr. GRIFFIN of Boston, the previous question was ordered.
Mr. GRIFFIN of Malden called for the yeas and nays, which were ordered, on the pending question, viz., passage to a third reading.
The bill was then passed by a vote of 170 yeas to 1 nay, the negative vote being cast by Mr. Freeman of Mendon.
The bill was then sent to the Senate.
The Senate having reassembled, the following message was received from the House, through its Clerk.
The bill for revising and consolidating the General Statutes of the Commonwealth, which had previously passed both branches of the Legislature, and been; transmitted to the Governor for his approval, has been returned by His Excellency to the House of Representatives with his objections to certain provisions of chapter 13 of said bill. That thereupon, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, the House of Representatives proceeded to reconsider said bill; and having reconsidered the same, and the yeas and nays having been taken thereon, the House refused to pass the bill, two thirds of the members present, and voting thereon, not having voted in the affirmative.
I am further instructed to inform the Senate that the House, under a suspension of its rules, has passed through its several stages to be engrossed, a bill, &c., which is hereby transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence.
The bill having been received, it was moved and carried that it be read by its title, it being understood that the only alteration was the insertion of the word 'white' in the two sections of chapter 13, where it had been previously struck out.
Mr. DAVIS of Bristol said that, notwithstanding the original bill had been vetoed by the Governor, and that the amendment would probably be adopted by the Senate, yet he solemnly and deliberately believed that the former action of the Senate was constitutional, and in view of his constitutional right, he distinctly reaffirmed the opinions he had expressed when the matter was previously before the Senate. He then cited the Constitution, and argued that the action of the Legislature was in accordance with it. He said that the opinion of the Supreme Court had now been indirectly foisted upon the Legislature, and this he considered should he carefully examined, as by a too free asking of opinions from this Court, the Legislature might eventually delegate its duties to the Judges. He was very severe on the executive for the course he had pursued in the matter, and closed by stating that he should vote against the bill as amended.
Mr. ODIORNE of Suffolk advocated the adoption of the amendment, and considered the Governor was right in obtaining the opinion of the Supreme Court.
Mr. PARKER of Worcester said that although he was a young man, he would not let this amendment pass without raising his voice against it. This was a question as to whether the crack of the slave-driver's whip shall rule in Massachusetts, or whether the voice of the representatives of the people shall be heard. There had been laid on the desks of Senators an opinion of the Judges of the Supreme Court, and he for one exercised his right to take exceptions to this opinion, as a course had been pursued without a precedent in the history of our Commonwealth. A case similar to this occurred in 1835, when an amendment to chapter 14 was adopted, which Governor Armstrong objected to. Finding this, he sent a message to the Legislature, requesting that this chapter might be sent to him separately.
This, Mr. PARKER said, was the manly course, but Gov. Banks had not even done this, but keeps back his knowledge of this objectionable feature until the last day of the session, and then forces the alternative on the Legislature either of rejecting the Revision or adopting this amendment. If he had the choice either of defeating the Revision or violating his principles, he would stand by his principles. The opinion of the Supreme Court enunciated a doctrine more infamous than any by the King's Bench in the time of James and Elizabeth of England. He called the attention of Senators to the significant fact that the word in controversy was not mentioned in the whole of the lengthy opinion, and this he thought might be attributed to the fact that the Judges were desirous of dodging the issue of putting a brand on the black man. He wished these Judges were within the reach of the people, as he thought then the opinion might have been different. He concluded by saying he should oppose the amendment.
The yeas and nays having been called and ordered on passing the bill to a third reading, the bill was so passed by the following vote:
YEAS—Messrs. Bacon, Bigelow. Conn, G. L. Davis, Evans, Fabens, French, Knight, Nerton, Odiorne, Osgood, Rich, Sawin, Simmons, Williams—15.
NAYS—Messrs. Atwood, Boynton. Branning, Cornell, Daggett, R. T. Davis, W. T. Davis, Hotchkiss, Luce, Metcalf, D. F. Parker—11.
The bill was then ordered to be engrossed as amended.
Mr. KIMBALL of Boston asked leave to introduce the following bill:
An act to amend chapter 13 of the General Statutes.
SECT. 1. So much of chapter 13, section 1, line 1, of the General Statutes, being the chapter of the militia, as provides for the enrollment of the militia, is hereby amended so as to provide that the words 'such persons as are designated by the acts of the Congress of the United States' shall be substituted for the words 'every able-bodied white citizen.'
The act shall take effect from and after May 31st of the year I860.
Mr. KIMBALL said that the House had caved down upon an important principle, under the instructions as he might call them, of the Governor and the Supreme Court. The bill which he offered was not open to the objection urged by the Governor. He thought that the time might come when the word 'white' would be stricken out of the United States laws, and he wanted the Statutes of <illegible> to be put in order for that time. All that he proposed was to get rid of the word 'white.'
After remarks by Mr. GRIFFIN of Malden and Mr. JOHNSON of Abington, Mr. Kimball withdrew his proposition.
<c05>
From the Wooster (Ohio) Republican.
LETTER FROM JOHN BROWN.
By permission of the Rev. J. W. McFarland, of Worcester, to whom it was addressed, we copy, from the original, the following letter written by John Brown, in answer to one received by him from Mr. McFarland. The letter, like all the others written by Brown since his imprisonment, speaks the spirit of a true hero and martyr.
JAIL, CHARLESTOWN, NOV. 23, 1859.
REV. McFARLAND—Dear Friend: Although you write to me as a stranger, the spirit you show toward me and the cause for which I am in bonds, makes me feel toward you as a dear friend. I would be glad to have you or any of my liberty-loving ministerial friends here, to talk and pray with me. I am not a stranger to the way of salvation by Christ. From my youth, I have studied much on this subject, and at one time hoped to be a minister myself, but God had another work for me to do. To me it is given, in behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. But while <illegible> trust that I have some experimental and <illegible> knowledge of religion, it would be a great <illegible> for me to have some one better qualified than <illegible> to lead my mind in prayer and meditation, <illegible> that my time is so near a close. You may <illegible> are there no ministers of the gospel here? I a <illegible> no. There are no ministers of Christ here.<illegible> ministers who profess to be Christian, and <illegible> slaves, or advocate slavery—I cannot abide <illegible> My knees will not bend in prayer with then.<illegible> their hands are stained with the blood <illegible> The subject you mention as having been <illegible> on, the day before you wrote to me, is one <illegible> have often thought of since my <illegible> think I feel as happy as Paul did when he <illegible> prison. He knew if they killed him, it would <illegible>ly advance the cause of Christ; that was the <illegible> he rejoiced so. On that same ground, I do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. 'Let them hang me. I forgive them, and may God forgive them, for they know not what they do. I have no regret for the transaction for which I am condemned. I went against the law of men, it is true, but, 'whether it be right to obey God or men, judge ye<illegible> Christ told me to remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, to do toward them as I would wish them to do toward me, in similar circumstances. My conscience bid me do that. I tried to do it, but failed. Therefore I have no regret on that score. I have no sorrow, either, as to the result, only for my poor wife and children. They have suffered much, and it is hard to leave them uncared for. But God will be a husband to the widow, and a Father to the fatherless.
I have frequently been in Wooster, and if any of my old friends from about Akron are there, you can show them this letter. I have but a few more days, and I feel anxious to be away, 'where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest. 'Farewell!
Your friend, and the friend of all friends of Liberty, JOHN BROWN.

EXPULSIONS OF CITIZENS OF KENTUCKY FOR ENTERTAINING FREE STATE SENTIMENTS.
The Cincinnati Commercial of Dec. 31 says that thirty-six persons arrived in that city from Kentucky, on the 30th, having been warned to leave the State for the crime of believing slavery to be a sin. They are from Berea and vicinity in Madison country, neighbors, co-workers and friends of Rev. John G. Fee.
Among the exiles are Rev. J. A. R. Rogers, principal of a flourishing school at Berea, and his family; J. D. Reed and family; John S. Hanson and family. Mr. Hanson is a native of Kentucky, and a hard-working, thrifty man. He had recently erected a steam saw-mill, and owns five hundred acres of land in Madison country, Ky. The Rev. J. F. Boughton; E. T. Hayes and S. Life, carpenters; A. G. W. Parker, a native of South Carolina;—— Toney, a native of Tennessee; John Smith, a native of Ohio, a farmer, who has lived in Kentucky some years. Mr. Smith is described by Mr. Fee as a gray-haired father, a man of prayer, indeed of eminent piety and usefulness. More than half of the exiles are natives of Southern States, and several are native Kentuckians. The only offence charged against any of them is that of entertaining abolition sentiments.
The movement for expelling these men arose from the excitement of the John Brown foray. At a proslavery meeting held at Richmond, at which, according to the Kentucky papers, the 'oldest, most respectable, and law-abiding citizens were in attendance, 'it was resolved on the ground of 'self-preservation, 'to appoint a committee of sixty-five, to remove from among them J. G. Fee, J. A. R. Rogers, and so many of their associates, as in their best judgment the peace and safety of society may require. The committee were instructed to perform this duty 'deliberately and humanely as may be, but most effectually. 'At the meeting, a letter of J. A. R. Rogers was read, inviting any gentleman of the County who, from rumor or otherwise, has formed an unfavorable opinion of the community of Berea, to visit it, and learn its true character. He says:—
'We do not profess to be faultless, but hope that the compliments for industry, probity and good citizenship, that nave been paid us by those of the first rank in the county for wealth and influence, who have made our acquaintance, may be more and more deserved.
It is universally known that most of us, in common with Washington and a host of others, whom we all delight to honor, believe that slavery is a moral and political evil; that it is the duty and privilege of those holding slaves to free them at the earliest consistent moment, and in such a way as to promote the general good; and that complexion is not the true test for the regard or privileges that should be extended to a man. We believe, too, that moral and political means only should be used to remove slavery. Insurrection finds no favor here. Brother Fee never has, and if his words be known, I doubt not does not now give the least countenance to the use of force in hastening the end of slavery.
Hoping that our confidence may be fully and intelligently placed in Him who once was despised, but is now exalted to be a Prince and Saviour, I remain yours respectfully.'
The committee were ordered to carry out the designs of the meeting within ten days, and Mr. Rogers thus describes the warning which he received:—
'He was in his cottage, when a summons for him to appear was heard. On going to the door, he discovered an imposing cavalcade, sixty-five well-mounted men being drawn up in warlike array. He was informed that he had ten days in which to leave the State. This was on the 23d December. He told them that he had not consciously violated any law of the Commonwealth, and that, if he had unconsciously done so, he would be most happy to be tried according to law. He was informed that they did not know that he had violated any law, but that his principles were incompatible with the public peace, and that he must go. The charge against him was abolitionism—the penalty, expulsion from the State.
<c06>
No harsh or personally disrespectful language was used. He was even told with much courtesy of word and manner, that he was esteemed as a gentleman, but his presence was offensive on account of his principles. They laid it down as an axiom, that such sentiments as he entertained were not to be tolerated by a slaveholding people—that abolition doctrines and slaveholding were not to be permitted together—that one or the other must go under, and that they were resolved he and his friends must go. They warned him peaceably, but any amount of force necessary to carry out the objects of the Richmond meeting would be unhesitatingly employed. They appeared now in peace, but if he did not need the warning, they would re-appear for war.'
The committee represented <illegible> and respectability of Madison county <illegible> sustained for the most part by public <illegible> were, however, quite a number of slaveholders residing in the vicinity who were opposed to <illegible> proceedings of the higher law pro-slavery zealots.
The Commercial in continuation says:—
<illegible> was circulated <illegible> the country for <illegible> ever seven hundred of which were ob<illegible>rsing the action taken by the Rich-<illegible> and expressive of the sense of the com-<illegible> the abolitionists must be driven out. <illegible> charge of this paper do not seem to have had any objections to procuring signatures un <illegible> A slaveholder was called on <illegible> he approved of the John Brown <illegible>he said he did not. He was than <illegible> paper.
<illegible> and when he found out the nature of <illegible>and the real object of obtaining his <illegible> indignant and wished to withdraw <illegible>was deterred by threats from doing <illegible>tures to this paper were obtained in <illegible> vicinity of Berea, except in this way, <illegible>indicates that the neighbors of the Free <illegible>not think them dangerous citizens.
There were some friends of the proscribed persons willing to risk everything and stand by them, but knowing that fighting would be unavailing, they concluded to be without the State within the time assigned for their removal. And they are consequently exiles in our midst, and afford a lesson of the nature of the intolerant despotism of a slave power which should not be lost upon those who are solicitous as to the status of the American States.'
Before leaving, they made an appeal to Gov. Magoffin for protection, and a committee of them presented the Governor the following petition:—
To His Excellency the Governor of the Kentucky:—
We, the undersigned, loyal citizens and residents of the State of Kentucky and country of Madison do respectfully call your attention to the facts:
1. We have come from various parts of this and adjoining States to this country, with the intention of making it our home, have supported ourselves and families by honest industry, and endeavored to promote the interests of religion and education.
2. It is a principle with us to 'submit to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake; unto governors as unto them that are sent by Him for the punishment of evil-doers, and the praise of them that do well, 'and in accordance with this principle we have been obedient in all respects to the laws of this State.
3. Within a few weeks, evil and false reports have been put into circulation, imputing to us motives, words and conduct calculated to inflame the public mind, which imputations are utterly false and groundless. These imputations we have publicly denied, and offered every facility for the fullest investigation, which we have earnestly but vainly sought.
4. On Friday, the 23d inst., a company of sixty-two men, claiming to have been appointed by a meeting of the citizens of our county, without any shadow of legal authority, and in violation of the Constitution and laws of the State and United States, called at our respective residences and places of business, and notified us to leave the county and State, and he without this county and State within ten days and handed us the accompanying document, in which you will see that unless the said order be promptly complied with, there is expressed a fixed determination to remove us by force.
In view of these facts, which we can substantiate by the fullest evidence, we respectfully pray that you, in the exercise of the power vested in you by the constitution and made your duty to use, do protect us in our rights as loyal citizens of the Commonwealth of the State of Kentucky.
J. A. R. ROGERS, SWINGLEHURST LIFE,
J.G. HANSON, JOHN SMITH.
I. D. REED, E. T. HAYES,
JAS, S. DAVIS, CHAS,.E.GRIFFIN,
JOHN F. BOUGHTON, A. G. W. PARKER
W, H. TORREY.
BEREA, Madison Co., KY., Dec 24, 1849.
Gov. Magoffin, says the Commercial, received the bearers of the petition (Reed and Hayes) courteously, and advised them, for the sake of preserving the peace of the State, to leave it. He said that the public mind was deeply moved by the events in Virginia, and that until the excitement subsided, their presence in the State would be dangerous, and he could not engage to protect them their fellowcitizens who had resolved that they must go.
He promised them security while taking their departure, and that their property should be protected. They say that for the most part they were treated politely by those who have driven them from their homes, and they have hopes that presently the people of kentucky will take a sober thought, and allow them to return to their several places of abode and accustomed avocations.
It is certainly not a light matter to drive out of a State men who build steam saw-mills, improve farms, keep schools, and labor faithfully as ministers of the Gospel, and who give no provocation to any in any way—who offend against no law —who make no war upon society—and who merely hold that slavery is a sin, and teach that it should come to an end in God's own good time. The steam-mill of Mr. Hanson was doing well until he was constrained to abandon it. The school of Mr. Rogers was in a flourishing condition, having nearly a hundred pupils during the last term, a great portion of them the children of slaveholders. Kentucky cannot afford to drive beyond her borders the men who build mills and academies.
The exiles seem in good spirits. They do not indulge even in unkind words about those who have made them homeless. They seem to be divided in opinion as to their course in future. They all hope to go back to Old Kentucky, and live, labor, and die on her soil. Some fear they cannot go back, and think of looking out for employment in the free States; and they have vague ideas of appealing for protection in their rights and immunities as citizens to the Federal Government.'
The state of society around Barea is deplorable. The people are poor, uneducated, ignorant. Many men and women among the people surrounding the colony are unable to read or write. Their habitations are poor—many of them containing but one room without windows. They clothing is poor, and many are, even in the present inhospitable weather, but half covered. Among such a people, this mission was established, to the waking up of a lively interest, in many places, in favor of education 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'
—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and of truth. The children of many slaveholders were attending the school, and the prospects of business around were improving; the land was looking up in price, and many facilities for a more comfortable life were being introduced as the result of the labor of the few who were engaged in the work.- Much good had in this way already been accomplished. Men from the North were obtaining a favorable recognition as men of enterprise and of real worth in the community, and he (the speaker) had so attracted the attention of one slaveholder that there was talk of his being employed to oversee his farm.
In the midst of all this, came the news of the Harper's Ferry affair, the fear, the expulsion. Last Sabbath was an interesting and solemn day at Berea. Assembled in the school-house and church, addresses were made by those who were to be driven from their homes, and by others, and afterwards with many tears, and with much of regret, a parting took place. A few days after, the people in whose midst the now exiles bad labored, entertained them at a dinner. On Thursday followed the exodus. In the rain, the mud, and the cold, they set out for this region. The exiles in all this were hopeful and happy, the poor ones left behind tearful and mourning. Those who expelled this colony were not the fiery fanatics or the rowdy class, but the wealthy and the strong, who had long studied upon it, but who, ignorant of the designs of the mission, thought it unsafe to allow its existence in their midst. During the first excitement, there was no delay in the continuation of the work, nor any wavering in the prosecution of the details of business. All believed it safe to remain until the determination to force an exile or to exterminate by death became apparent; then but two alternatives remained, flight or fight. Friends were around who would have resisted even unto death; but the colonists believed that they should carry on their labor in love and in peace, and they preferred exile, with the silent preaching their absence would furnish, to the shedding of blood.
There is in these silent monitors which are left behind in the church, the rough houses and the few vacant acres of land, a tongue to speak louder than could any of the exiles, and already good has resulted. Some, even of the slaveholders, that knew them best, have not only expressed by words the sympathy they feel, but others have apologized for the actions of the many, and one made proffer of money to enable the victims to reach a more generous home.
EXPULSION OF FREE NEGROES FROM AEKANSAS.- Large Arrival inCincinnati-Their Reception by the Colored Population. At the late session of the Arkansas Legislature, an act was passed giving the free negroes of that State the alternative of migrating before January 1, 1860, or of becoming slaves. As the time of probation has now expired, while some few individuals have preferred servitude, the great body of the free colored people of Arkansas are on their way Northward. We learn that the upward bound boats are crowded with them, and that Seymour, Indiana, on the line of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad, affords a temporary home for many others.
A party of forty, mostly women and children, arrived in this city last evening, by the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad. They were welcomed by a committee of ten, appointed from the colored people of the city, by whom the refugees were escorted to the Dumas House, on McAllister street, between Fourth and Fifth, at which place a formal reception was held. They were assured by the chairman of the reception committee, Peter H. Clark, that if they were industrious and exemplary in their conduct, they would be sure to gain a good livelihood and many friends. The exiles, as before stated, are mostly women and children, the husbands and fathers being held in servitude. They report concerning the emigration, that hundreds of the free colored men of Arkansas have left for Kansas, and hundreds more are about to follow.-Cincinnati Gazette, Jan. 4.
The New York Tribune, in giving the revolting particulars of the tarring and feathering, and bloody scourging by the lash, of an unoffending Irish workman, named James Power, in Columbia, S. C. (falsely accused of being an abolitionist) says:
After he had travelled he supposes fifty miles, a master-mechanic of Charleston, pitying his sufferings and exhaustion, gave him a cup of coffee and a biscuit: whereupon the mob around the station threatened that person, swearing also death to himself. Some came into the car, and seized him by the hair, saying,ï¿½ Let's look at you, you God damned abolition son of a bh.ï¿½ Some desired to give him a fresh coat of tar and feathers, but, not able to find any of those staples, they applied cotton to the tar already on him. The mob were likewise of opinion that there were a whole lot of abolstionists in the cars who ought to be hanged. He arrived at Charleston and was put in prison.
He had been kindly counseled, to make no complaints, or be would get 130 lashes more. A physician who attended him told him he escaped easily; for there were seven men, accused of being Northern pickpockets, arrested at the Agricultural State Fair, and committed to jail. One of them had received 500 lashes, another a less number; that the man who received the 500 was near dying. Power had not read of any trial of these men so accused and punished. Oil and water were given him to cleanse himself. Silence was enjoined on him, lest the mob should get hold of him. He paid his own passage money from Columbia to Charleston, the negro taking $5 from his pocket-book. He heard that it was published that the negroes of Columbia had made a subscription to pay his passage. On Saturday last, at 7 in the morning, he was put on a steamer for New-York.
When the Christmas festivities were at their hight on Monday, thisï¿½ poor Exile of Erin,' with the blood-lash marks on his body-inflicted under the aegis of the Constitution and laws, for some maudlin words or childish talk in Columbia, South Carolina-arrived at this great metropolis. He is reduced in flesh, but is sturdy in spirit. He asks work, not alms. It is a pity he could not have arrived in time for the Union meeting, so that Charles O'Connor, Esq., could have presented him to the Union-savers, and illustrated the effects of the patriarchal system on the person of an Irishman.
A letter from a Boston gentleman who has gone South for his health, states that on the first day out from Washington, be had a pistol held to his head, and that he was dogged by four Southern men for hundreds of miles, annoyed and insulted until he challenged the whole crowd of them to fight him, whereupon they backed out. All his newspapers from Boston have been withheld from him, and his letters have been broken open before they reached the post-office to which-they were sent.
THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT. A letter dated Cynthia, Ky., says:
ï¿½Three persons (preachers) were arrested for tampering with negroes in Madison county, Ky., last week, They were tarred and feathered, and sent back to the North from whence they came. They are considered murderers here. A Rev. gentleman has been notified to leave the State. The people here are determined to drive all such persons out.'
We learnfrom the Auburn Signal, that some short time ago, near Society Hill, Macon county, Alabama, a man named L. Stearns, claiming to be from Montgomery, was caught tampering with a Mr. Richardson's negroes. He was driven off, and a party of citizens caught and whipped him. Two or three nights afterwards, Mr. Richardson had a lot of cotton set on fire.
An Italian grocer, named John Ginochio, narrowly escaped being lynched by the citizens of Petersburg, Va., last Monday, for saying that John Brown was a good and very useful man, and, instead of being hung, he ought to have been made President of the United States.
Benj. F. Winter, a blacksmith by trade, has been ordered to leave the town of Hamilton, Harris County, Ga., by a meeting of citizens, for avowing abolition and incendiary sentiments.
A passenger on the Mississippi Central Railroad was pushed off the train while it was in full motion, for denouncing Gov. Wise and lauding John Brown.
The steamer Huntsville, which arrived in New York from Savannah, on Monday, December 19th, brought several passengers who had been driven away from different parts of the South. Among them were two gentlemen whose heads were shaved on one side! They had been exiled from the chivalrous State of South Carolina. One of the victims avowed his determination speedily to return to execute <illegible> on his maltreaters.
<c02>
[OBERLIN CIRCULAR.]
A. MONUMENT,
To Commemorate the Manly Virtues of those Noble Representatives of the Colored Race of the Nineteenth Century. JOHN A. COPELAND, LEWIS LEARY, and SHIELDS GREEN, who, for the Cause of Freedom, laid down their lives at Harper's Ferry and Charlestown, Va., October 17, and December 16,1859.
The Citizens of Oberlin have undertaken the work of erecting a Monument to the memory of these their honored friends and townsmen. But, as they are representalice men, of whom every colored person in the land has reason to be proud, we have not thought it right to withhold from such, nor indeed from any, the privilege of sharing the honor with us.
We make no stirring appeal for funds-preferring to say, in the language of the blessed book which was the solace of our friends as they approached the hour of their mortal agony-' Let every one whose heart has stirred him up, and whose spirit hath made him willing, bring the Lord's offering to the work of the' Monument.
The funeral of John Copeland was held in the Oberlin Church on the last Sabbath, and although but short notice of the meeting was given, fully three thousand persons were present to unite in congratulations, and to mingle their tears with those who wept.
Our esteemed fellow-citizen, the Hon. James Monroe, member elect of the Ohio Senate, and a Professor in Oberlin College, had just returned from his humane mission to Virginia, and presented an interesting statement of his earnest, though unsuccessful efforts to recover the body of our friend. (Other and earlier efforts for the same object, though intended to be efficient, had likewise proved a failure.)
Professor H. E. Peck, of Oberlin College, (one of the men who lay in Cuyahoga jail for eighty-five days, for alleged complicity with those who rescued a fellow-being from the grasp of man-stealers,) preached an eloquent funeral sermon. He marked the providence of God which had furnished for the colored race a not less firm, heroic and Christ-like champion than had the white race in the person of the immortal John Brown.
Young Copeland was a man of incomplete education, and of few words, but brave and energetic. He was favorably known in our community; and was honored as the second man who entered the room, and faced a forest of revolvers, when the noted' Johnï¿½ was rescued.
How brightly do his virtues shine when the circumstances of his last days are carefully considered! Falsely published by the highest authority of Virginia as craven and trembling-fearful, doubtless, that the base slander might be believed-uncheered by the friendly assurance of admiring thousands which so greatly sustained other patriots-surrounded by those who never dreamed of nobleness in a negro, why did he not sink? Answer-God inspired him with Christian courage to nobly represent a race; and how worthily did he represent them!
The Baltimore Sun says: A few moments before leaving the jail, Copeland said,ï¿½ If I am dying for freedom, I could not die for a better cause-I had rather die than be a slave!' A military officer in charge on the day of the execution says,ï¿½ I had a position near the gallows, and carefully observed all. I can truly say, I never witnessed more firm and unwavering fortitude, more perfect composure, or more beautiful propriety, than were manifested by young Copeland to the very last.'
The following extracts from his recent letters, one of which was written on the morning of his execution, will exhibit this noble young man to the admiration of every lover of the true, the beautiful, and the good.
Charlestown, Va. Dec.' 10, 1859.
MY DEAR BROTHER:-I now take my pen to write you a few lines to let you know how I am, and in answer to your kind letter of the 5th instant. Dear Brother, I am, it is true, so situated at present as scarcely to know how to commence writing; not that my mind is filled with fear, or that it has become shattered in view of my near approach to death. Not that l am terrified by the gallows, which I see staring me in the face, and upon which I am so soon to stand and suffer death for doing what Geo. Washington, the so-called father of this great but slavery-cursed country, was made a hero for doing, while he lived, and when dead, his name was immortalized, and his great and noble deeds in behalf of freedom taught by parents to their children. And now, brother, for having lent my aid to a General no less brave, and engaged in a cause no less honorable and glorious, I am to suffer death. Washington entered the field to fight for the freedom of the American people-not for the white man alone, but for both black and white. Nor were they white men alone who fought for the freedom of this country. The blood of black men flowed as freely as that of white men. Yes, the very first blood that was spilt was that of a negro. It was the blood of that heroic man, (though black he was.) Crispus Attucks. And some of the very last blood shed was that of black men. To the truth of this, history, though prejudiced, is compelled to attest. It is true that black men did an equal share of the fighting for American Independence, and they were assured by the whites that they should share equal benefits for so doing. But, after having performed their part honorably, they were by the whites most treacherously deceived -they refusing to fulfill their part of the contract. But this you know as well I do, and I will therefore say no more in reference to the claims which we, as colored men, have on the American people.
It was a sense of the wrongs which we have suffered that prompted the noble but unfortunate Captain Brown and his associates to attempt to give freedom to a small number, at least, of those who are now held by cruel and unjust laws, and by no less cruel and unjust men. To this freedom they were entitled by every known principle of justice and humanity, and for the enjoyment of it God created them. And now, dear brother, could I die in a more noble cause? Could I, brother, die in a manner and for a cause which would induce true and honest men more to honor me, and the angels more readily to receive me to their happy home of everlasting joy above? I imagine that I hear you, and all of you, mother, father, sisters and brothers, say-ï¿½ No, there is not a cause for which we, with less sorrow, could see you die.' Believe me when I tell you, that though shut up in prison and under sentence of death, I have spent some very happy hours here. And were it not that I know that the hearts of those to whom I am attached by the nearest and most endearing ties of blood-relationship-yea, by the closest and strongest ties that God has instituted-will be filled with Borrow, I would almost as lief die now as at any time, for I feel that I am now prepared to meet my Maker.
Dear brother, I want you, and all of you, to meet me in heaven. Prepare your souls for death. Be ready to meet your God at any moment, and then, though we meet no more on earth, we shall meet in heaven, where parting is no more. Dear William and Fred, be good boys-mind your mother and father-love and honor them-grow up to be good men, and fear the Lord your God. Now, I want you, dear brothers, to take this advice and follow it; remember, it comes from your own brother, and is written under most peculiar circumstances. Remember it is my dying advice to you, and I hope you will, from the love you have for me, receive it.
You may think I have been treated very harshly since I have been here, but it is not so. I have been treated exceedingly well-far better than I expected to be. My jailor is a most kind-hearted man, and has done all be could, consistent with duty, to make me and the rest of the prisoners comfortable. Capt. John Avis is a gentleman who has a heart in his bosom as brave as any other. He met us at the Ferry, and fought us as a brave man would do. But since we have been in his power, he has protected us from insult and abuse which cowards would have heaped upon us. He has done as a brave man and gentleman only would do. Also one of his aids, Mr. John Sheats, has been very kind to us, and has done all he could to serve us. And now, Henry, if fortune should ever throw either of them in your way, and you can confer the least favor on them, do it for my sake.
Give my love to all my friends. And now, my dear brothers, one and all, I pray God we may meet in heaven.
Good bye. I am now, and shall remain, your affectionate brother, JOHN A. COPELAND.
CHARLESTOWN JAIL, Va., Dec. 16, 1859. Dear father, Mother, Brothers Henry, William and Freddy, and Sisters Sarah and Mary:
The last Sabbath with me on earth has passed away. The Last Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday that I shall ever see on this earth, have now passed by. God's glorious sun, which he has placed in the heavens to illuminate this earth-whose
<c03>
warm rays make man's home on earth pleasant- whose refulgent beams are watched for by the poor invalid, to enter and make as it were a heaven of the room in which he is confined-I have seen declining behind the western mountains for the last time. Last night, for the last time, I beheld the soft bright moon as it rose, casting its mellow light into my felon's cell, dissipating the darkness, and filling it with that soft pleasant light which causes such thrills of joy to all those in like circumstances with myself. This morning, for the last time, I beheld the glorious sun of yesterday rising in the far-off East, away off in the country where our Lord Jesus Christ first proclaimed salvation to man; and, now, as he rises higher and his bright light takes the place of the pale, soft moonlight, I will take my pen, for the last time, to write you who are bound to me by those strong ties, (yea, the strongest that God ever instituted,) the ties of blood and relationship, l am well, both in body and in mind. And now, dear ones, if it were not for those feelings I have for you-if it were not that I know your hearts will be filled with sorrow at my fate, I could pass from this earth without a regret. Why should you sorrow? Why should your hearts be racked with grief? Have I not everything to gain, and nothing to lose by the change? I fully believe that not only myself, but also all three of my poor comrades who are to ascend the same scaffold-(a scaffold already made sacred to the cause of freedom by the death of that great champion of human freedom, Capt. JOHN BROWN,) are prepared to meet our God.
I am only leaving a world filled with sorrow and woe, to enter one in which there is but one lasting day of happiness and bliss. I feel that God, in his mercy, has spoken peace to my soul, and that all my numerous sins are forgiven.
Dear parents, brothers and sisters, it is true that I am now in a few hours to start on a journey from which no traveler returns. Yes, long before this reaches you, I shall, as I sincerely hope, have met our brother and sister who have for year been worshiping God around his throne-singing praises to him, and thanking him that he gave his Son to die that they might have eternal life. I pray daily and hourly that I may be fitted to have my home with them, and that you, one and all, may prepare your souls to meet your God, that so, in the end, though we meet no more on earth, we shall meet in heaven, where we shall not be parted by the demands of the cruel and unjust monster Slavery.
But think not that I am complaining, for I feel reconciled to meet my fate, I pray God that his will be done, not mine.
Let me tell you that it is not the mere fact of having to meet death, which I should regret, (if I should express regret I mean,) but that such an unjust institution should exist as the one which demands my life, and not my life only, but the lives of those to whom my life bears but the relative value of zero to the infinite. I beg of you, one and all, that you will not grieve about me; but that you will thank God that he spared me to make my peace with him.
And now, dear ones, attach no blame to any one for my coming here, for not any person but myself is to blame.
I have no antipathy against anyone. I have freed my mind of all hard feelings against every living being, and I ask all who have any thing against me to do the same.
And now, dear Parents, Brothers and Sisters, I must bid you to serve your God, and meet me in heaven.
I must with a very few words close my correspondence with those who are the most near and dear to me: but I hope, in the end, we may again commune never more to cease.
Dear ones, he who writes this will, in a few hours, be in this world no longer. Yes, these fingers which hold the pen with which this is written will, before to-day's sun has reached his meridian, have laid it aside forever, and this poor soul have taken its flight to meet its God.
And now, dear ones, I must bid you that last, long, sad farewell. Good by. Father, Mother, Henry, William, and Freddy, Sarah and Mary! Serve your God, and meet me in heaven.
Your Son and Brother to eternity. JOHN A. COPELAND.
One three cent piece keep as a token.
Nor was LEWIS LEARY an unsuitable associate of the heroic Copeland. A Christian man-driven forth amid a shower of rifle balls from the land of his fathers, because of efforts to' deliver him that was spoiled out of the hands of the oppressor,' he still fearlessly pursued the same godlike calling in the home of his adoption. For this purpose, and for nothing else, Leary and his associates went to Harper's Ferry. When forced into battle, he bravely fought, in self-defence. His eye never quailed and his cheek never blanched till he fell, with face to his foe, and covered with mortal wounds. Why. did be rush on death? Not that life was a weariness to him. Objects of tender love were cherished in his heart. His young wife and babe whom he has left in our midst (may God sustain and bless them) were inexpressibly dear to him. But the tender words of conjugal love and the winning smiles of helpless infancy could not change his purpose to do and dare nobly for the deliverance of his brethren.
SHIELDS GREEN was but little known to us, excepting as he has been made known to the nation and the world by his manly conduct, his patient and heroic endurance in prison, and his pious, courageous and consistent deportment as he stood on the fatal gallows.
Our messenger to Virginia saw him as he lay in a garret, naked, frozen and bloody; his dead eyes open, and looking straight to heaven as if he would say, ï¿½How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood?'
The great congregation assembled at young Cope-land's funeral contributed nearly one hundred and seventy-five dollars towards the monument and expenses, although five other public collections had been made within thirty days.
We wish to do a worthy thing. The more money we raise, the more noble the MONUMENT we rear to the memory-not of a man only-but of a race.
Please make such efforts to secure funds for this object as seem advisable, and forward the money within four weeks, if possible, to the Treasurer,
J. M. FITCH, Oberlin, Ohio.
(Signed,) A. N. BEECBER, J. M. LANGSTON,
J. MONROE, J. WATSON,
G. KINNEY, S. COX
W. E. KELLOG, H. EVANS,
S. PLUMB, S.GRIMES,
J. M. FITCH, S. GRIMES,
Oberlin, Dec. 29,1859. Committee.
GOV. BANKS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE NATION.
On Friday last, Got. Banks communicated his annual message to the Legislature. We give, below, that portion of it which relates to our present complicated national affairs, growing out of the existence of the accursed slave system at the South:-
Recent occurrences call attention to the measures, tendencies and principles which seem to control the National Government. Great changes hare occurred during the last five years, in the opinions of the people, but far greater in the policy of the government.
There has not been in this Commonwealth, at any time in twenty years past, a more general concurrence of opinion, or less agitation of political topics, than during the interval between the election of 1852 and the opening of the thirty-third Congress, after a somewhat compulsory, but general acquiescence in the compromise measures of 1850.
This harmony of feeling upon the subject of slavery was not disturbed in this Commonwealth by philanthropists, agitators, declaimers or theorists. The public records of the times will show this. Ideas are very powerful, but revolutions in opinion or government rarely or never occur unaccompanied by events commensurate with them and their results. There is no greater error than that which attributes the present disturbed condition of the public mind to the speculations of scholars, or the denunciations of enthusiasts. It is attributable to historical events; ever memorable events; events connected with the government, and which were alike beyond the control of agitators, philanthropists, abolitionists, and even of the people themselves.
It is worth our while to consider Borne of these national occurrences; such as the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,-a conspiration against the people of the South as well as the North; the invasion of Kansas by bands of men, armed with the plunder of public arsenals, to overawe the officers appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the Senate, and to subvert the government of the people by force; the gigantic frauds committed in the elections of that Territory, which were denounced by the government officers as by the people;
<c04>
the sacking of towns and the murder of their inhabitants; the rejection by Congress of a Constitution framed by the people, and the effort to force upon them against their will, and against all principle and precedent, another framed by Congress; the illegal and defiant renewal of the foreign slave trade; the attempt to force a surrender of the political rights of the States and the people, by referring political questions to judicial decision; the deadly assault upon a Senator of this Commonwealth while in the constitutional performance of his duty in the Senate chamber; the sacrifice of a Senator on the Pacific Coast, because, as he said in the agony of death, he had opposed the extension of slavery; the neglect of every interest of labor and of commerce, by government, and the prostitution of all its powers to the spirit of slavery propagandism; the invasion of the mails and the threats of disunion and revolution, whenever a check by constitutional change of national policy is suggested; these are among the events that have contributed to the present state of public opinion. It required incidents of no less magnitude is produce such results. Were the press suspended and every lip sealed with the silence of death, they would still incite every manly heart to indignant, though fruitless resistance.
But it is not merely that which is past that disturbs the country; it is the fear of that which is to come. The repeal of the Missouri Compromise was the most stupendous public wrong ever committed in this country, or that men will ever live to commit; not because of its effect on Kansas, but that it initiated a policy of violence inconsistent with liberty or just government, freedom of opinion, the interests of labor, the rights of States, the equality of the people, the observance of constitutional limitations, or the perpetuation of- free institutions. A violent policy must be sustained by violent measures. History proves it, and our experience, as that of other nations; will verify it.
It is idle to charge upon the body of the supporters of the national administration any deliberate intention to establish measures inimical to the public interests. They probably have no such purpose, and may justly disclaim it; but it is nevertheless true that the men who direct that policy will allow, and can allow, no peace. They must submit themselves to the law of necessity which governs them. The administrations of 1852 and 1856 were in direct and absolute contravention of every declaration of purpose, personal and official, on the part of their leaders; and it is not difficult to forsee that similar results will again occur if power is continued in similar bands. We may go further, and name the time when such invasions of the settled policy of the country will happen. The interval between Presidential contests, when elections are unimportant, and decide nothing, are convenient periods for the consummation of revolutionary measures; and the return of the grand contests for political power is equally auspicious for threatened dissolution, and appeals to the fears of some classes and the magnanimity of others; for an acquiescence is conceded wrong, upon the pretence that it is to silence dissension and terminate all controversy.
It is unnecessary to say that this Commonwealth is opposed-inflexibly and almost unanimously- alike to such principles and such policy. Her principles are those of the fathers of the government. She recognizes the existence of State and National governments, each sovereign and independent within its own sphere of action, and dividing the jurisdiction between them, not by territorial limits, and not by the relation of superior and subordinate, but classifying the subjects of government, and designating those over which each had entire and independent jurisdiction. Within her own borders, she asserts the liberty and equality of all men. Non-responsibility, and non-intervention, as to the domestic relations of men in other States, is alike her choice and her law.
Her policy is pacific and not violent, constitutional not revolutionary, submitting to constitutional authority, and seeking the general good, rather than' selfish gratification or isolated aggrandizement. No! act of violence, no infringement of the rights of others, whether of States or of men, no denial of the provisions of the Constitution, no impeachment of the union of States, is consistent with her principle or her policy.
Her people, under all circumstances, are inflexibly opposed to, and will resist, by every constitutional right, the extension of slavery, the re-opening of the foreign slave trade, the consolidation of despotic power in the federal government, or restrictions upon the freedom of speech, of the press, or of opinion. She asks of the government the neglect of no interest,-State or National,-but claims protection for all, and is as ready to concede the rights of others as to maintain her own.
She will support the Constitution and the Union, not because they are respected elsewhere, but because she knows their cost, and appreciates their value. The revolution began in Massachusetts. Here arose the earliest dissensions with the mother country; here the people were first prepared for revolt; here patriots were first proscribed, independence was first contemplated; here fell the first martyrs of liberty; the first British ensign was here struck to American seamen, and here was first unfurled the American flag. We require no instruction upon the subject of our duties, and will submit to no infringement of our rights. The Union must be preserved, and so must the State of Massachusetts.
I hesitate not to affirm that the action of this government is consistent with these principles. It is not my purpose to declare that there-is universal acquiescence in such views, that individuals do not hold different opinions, or that in periods of great excitement, and under great provocation, public sympathy is not exerted in behalf of those who suffer from misfortunes, or required to pay the penalties of law.
No one who is connected with the administration of justice, and witnesses the strength of sympathy for hardened offenders, will be surprised that public Judgment should be momentarily swayed by the exhibition in any man of the highest qualities-a love of truth, as rare as it is beautiful, an integrity as unbending as his spirit; one in whom great suffering had perverted judgment, who accepts the responsibilities of his acts without complaint, and meets death as a sailor doubles a Cape. Opinion is free and sympathy unrestrained, and it is as little re markable that it should be manifested in such a case as that in other parts of the country public meetings should be held to justify an assault upon a Senator of the United States for words spoken in debate. But it does not represent the government nor the matured conviction of the people as to their political duties.
Nor do I apprehend that the restoration of the government to its ancient policy will weaken its bonds, or tend to the dissolution of the Union. In my judgment, dissolution is one of the evils not with in the scope, if it be within the purpose, of human power. There are stronger and sterner ties than those which spring from the wish or will of interested men. The Pacific Coast is an indivisible empire. Whoever shall divide the Mississippi must possess the power to dissipate its rolling floods, dissipate its bed, and turn back upon themselves the myriads of bubbling springs and mountain rivulets that have nourished the father of rivers from the time when the evening and morning stars first sang together. The Atlantic coast is susceptible of separation upon physical considerations, but the possession of such cities as New York, Philadelphia, and Boston, that pay four-fifths of the revenues of the government, will be of sufficient importance to hold together the eastern line of States, on whichsoever side political power may be lodged. Disunion is not among the impending evils of this country, but the tendencies to radical and despotic changes in the form of government are more imminent, and must challenge serious apprehensions of the friends of constitutional liberty.
The settlement of these great controversies will not devolve upon the legislature. Nevertheless, we are called upon with the people of other States to weigh well the dangers that surround us, and to reflect upon the remedies constitutionally within our power. Men may well differ as to the course to be pursued. For myself, I can only submit with deference the results of my own reflection. Legislative expedients do not seem to me to be equal to the crisis. Extreme measures divide friends and unite opponents. The concurrent action of that portion of the American people whose principles harmonize, is the only sure reliance. It is a period which demands concession in immaterial things and co-operation in the great ideas of the age. With such a spirit, silent, steady and united action will restore the peace of the country, and re-establish the ancient policy of the government.
So long as Massachusetts is ready to ï¿½Support the Constitution and the Union,' with all, their acknowledged pro-slavery compromises, so long will she be proportionately responsible for all the guilt, danger and trouble arising from the continuance of slavery.
<c05>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JANUARY 13, 1860.
REMEMBER THE TERMS.
To our, SUBSCRIBERS. Those of our subscribers who have not paid for the current year,-that is, from January 1st, 1859, to January lst,1860,-are reminded- of the standing rule by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1st, 1860, unless payment for the same be previously sent in.
The Financial Committee, in calling attention to the above standing rule, would also ask every subscriber, for the sake of the cause, as well as for the sake of the paper, to do what in him lies to extend the circulation of the Liberator, at least to the extent of procuring each one an additional name for our list.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH 
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSORIPTION.
The Anti-Slavery families who have so long made Boston the seat of this annual social occasion, gratefully renew their invitation to all the early friends of Freedom, and cordially extend it to the multitudes of new friends in every part of the land, whom the past year has made; earnestly entreating the satisfaction of their company at
THE MUSIC HALL,
BOSTON,
On Wednesday, January 25th. Soiree at 7 o'clock.
The general arrangements for the day and evening the same as last year.
We, who now unite in this heartfelt invitation, are not of Northern origin exclusively; some are of the South, and some have been slaveholders. But all seeing clearly that the present must be a year of unwonted moral exertion, if our country is to be carried successfully through the present hopeful crisis, unite in entreating our friends to meet us in this way at its opening, for mutual understanding and co-operation, counsel and encouragement, sympathy and
 congratulation. Never were the signs of the peaceful extinction of slavery so full and propitious to the eyes long trained to read them aright.
We shall shortly send special invitations to both the earlier and later friends. In the mean time, we entreat all who love their native land, and are beginning to feel deeply moved, to serve and save it, to consider the necessity of steady, long-sustained, unremitting exertion, such as we carry on, and to uphold it now by presence, if possible-at all events by letter and by sympathy. The names of such as have reasons for avoiding publicity will be sacredly kept, and our grateful expressions conveyed to them by private acknowledgment.
Let none who sympathize with us be absent because our special invitation may fail to reach them, for accident and omission, however carefully guarded against, are almost unavoidable in issuing invitations on so large a scale: and the occasion is one that will, we trust, bring to our acquaintance many now unknown to us, whose co-operation will be most valuable.
We entreat any whose love of the cause induces them to hesitate about making what they account a small subscription, to remember that while the largest sum is small in comparison with the grandeur of the Cause, the smallest may be the expression of high feeling, high thinking, and self-sacrifice.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING.
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
SARAH P. REMOND,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
ELIZA ANDREW,
SARAH CABOT ATKINSON,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
VELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT, 
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.
_____________________________________________________________________________________ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, on Thursday and Friday, Jan. 26th and 27th. The day meetings (morning and afternoon) will be held in the MEIONAON, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M. The evening meeting will be held in the TREMONT TEMPLE, commencing at half past 7.
All those who are believers in the ï¿½irrepressible conflict' between Freedom and Slavery-in making no terms with the slave oligarchy, but meeting every issue presented by them, in the spirit of freemen, unflinchingly and uncompromisingly-in laying the axe at the root of the Upas tree of Slavery, instead of protesting against its extension while giving it constitutional nourishment and protection-and in making Massachusetts free to every fugitive from oppression the moment he breathes her air-are cordially invited to be present, and to participate in the deliberations of the meetings. In connection with the Anti-Slavery Subscription-Festival, (Wednesday evening, Jan. 2.5th, at Music Hall,) let the gathering be unprecedentedly large.
Able and eloquent speakers will be present on the occasion. [Further particulars hereafter.]
In behalf of the Board of Managers,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, REC.SEC.

WHITTIER ON JOHN BROWN.
We have copied into our poetical department, from the New York Independent, some lines on John Brown of Osawatomie, from the pen of our gifted friend, John G. Whittier; but, though the sentiment is gracefully expressed, we think there is not the same magnanimous recognition of the liberty-loving heroism of John Brown, which is found in many of the poet's effusions relating to the war-like struggle of 1776, and our revolutionary fathers.' For example -he speaks of ï¿½the rash and bloody hand'-the 'guilty means' ï¿½withï¿½ the good intent'-'the grisly fighter's hair'-'the folly that seeks through evil good'-'the raid of midnight terror'-'the outlaw's pride of daring,' &c. There is an apparent invidiousness or severity of imputation in these epithets, which does not seem to be called for, though softened by some approving allusions in close juxtaposition. Let such of us as are believers in the doctrines of peace be careful to award to John Brown at least as much credit as we do to a Joshua or Gideon, a Washington or Warren, and especially not to do him the slightest injustice. Though he was far from being a non-resis-
<c06>
tant. yet he was not a man of violence and blood in a lawless sense, any more than those Jewish and American heroes; and if no reproachful epithets outght to
 be cast upon their memories, none ought to be cast upon his. In all that constitutes moral grandeur of character, and entire disinterestedness of action, he was their superior. He perilled all that was dent to him, not to achieve liberty for himself, or those of his own complexion, but to break the fetters of a race ï¿½not colored like his own,' most wickedly abhorted, universally proscribed, and subjected to a bondage full of unutterable woe and horror. But, even in their behalf, he sought no retaliation nor revenge, but only (if possible) a peaceful exodus from virginia. He explicitly declared to the Court-'I never had any design against the liberty of any person, nor any disposition to commit treason or destroy property, or to excite or to incite slaves to rebellion, or to make insurrection.' And what fair-minded man doubts the word of John Brown? His weapons were purely for self-defence on the part of the flying bondmen-to extremity, which, eighteen centuries after christ, justifies their use in the belief of Catholic and protestant Christendom, and in accordance with the common law of the world. He was of such stuff as the Waldenses and Albigenses, the Scotch Covenanten, the Smithfield martyrs, the Mayflower Pilgrims were composed; apparently as true to his convictions of duty toward God, as any man who ever walked the well earth before him. This does not prove that he did well to rely on some other than spiritual weapons for the success of his plan; but it does demand that the fullest justice should be done to his character, and that every reference to him should be as respecful and as appreciative as to any of the patriots and martyrs to whom all the civilized nations of the earth bow down in homage. Every man who votes to uphold (as does the Quaker poet himself) the Consistation of Massachusetts and the American Constituion, vote to uphold the war system-army, navy, million, with all their accompaniments; and no such persons therefore, can consistently speak of the rash and bloody hand' of John Brown, nor of ï¿½the folly that seeks through evil good,'- that is, that seeks to emancipate- the enslaved, ï¿½peaceably if it can-forcibly if it must
Possibly, before entering Harper's Ferry, John Brown had been reading the following soul-stirring lines of Whittier,-giving them a more literal interpretation than perhaps the poet intended:-
'Speak out in acts!-the time for words
Has passed, and deeds alone suffice;
In the loud clang of meeting swords
The softer music dies!
Act-act, in God's name, while ye may!
Smite from the Church her leprous limb!
Throw open to the light of day
The bondman's cell, and break away
The chains the State has bound on him!
One last great battle for the Right,-
One short, sharp struggle to be free!-
 To do is to succeed-our tight
 Is waged in Heaven's approving sight-
The smile of God is Victory!'
It is certain that when John Brown was at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention in Boston last May, he was heard to say, at its conclusion-'These men are all talk: what is needed is action-action!' He did unconscious injustice to the men alluded to, but it shows what was then uppermost in his mind.
In the following lines by Whittier, the martial references are very different from those in his effusion in the Independent:-
'Our fellow-countrymen in chains!
Slaves-in a land of light and law!
Slaves-crouching on the very plains
Where rolled the storm of Freedom's war!
A groan from Eutau's haunted wood-
A wail where Camden's martyrs fell-
By every shrine of patriot blood.
From Moultrie's wall and Jasper's well!
By storied hill and hallowed grot,
By mossy wood and marshy glen,
Whence rang of old the rife-shot
And hurrying shout of Marion's men.''
ï¿½No- by each spot of haunted ground,
Where Freedom weeps her children's fall-
By Plymouth's Rock, and Bunker's mound-
By Griscold's stained and shattered wail-
By Warren's ghost-by Langdon's shade- 
By all the memories of our dead!
By their enlarging souls which rural
The bands and fetters round them set-
By the free Pilgrim spirit nursed
Within our inmost bosoms yet-
By all above-around-below-
Be ours th' indignant answer-NO!'
So. too, in the following verse, there is the Same appreciation of heroism, without any damaging imputation:-
'When Freedom, on her natal day,
Within her war-rocked cradle lay,
An iron race around her stood, Baptized her infant brow in blood.
And, through the storm which round her swept,
Their constant ward and watching kept.'
Again:-
'God bless New Hampshire!-from her granite peaks
Once more the voice of Stark and Langdon speaks!'
But John Brown was nobler in his aim, and less bloody in his spirit, than either Stark or Langdon
Again, says the poet:-
'The voice of free, broad Middlesex-of thousand
as of one- 
The shaft of Bunker calling to that of Lexington!'
Is Harper's Ferry a whit behind Bunker Hill or Lexington in all that constitutes true devotion of soul, or a quenchless love of liberty?
Again, alluding to the invasive march of the Slave Power through the North:
'It is coming, it is nigh!
Stand your homes and altars by;
On your own free thresholds die!
Perish partyperish clan;
Strike together while ye can,
Like the arm of one strong man!'
Finally, Yorktown is celebrated in the following strain:
'From Yorktown's ruins, ranked and still,
Two lines stretch far o'er vale and hill:
Who curbs his steed at head of one?
Hark! the low murmur: Washington!
Who bends his keen, approving glance,
Where down the gorgeous line of France
Shine nightly star and plume of snow?
Thou too art victor, Rochambeau!
Oh! veil your faces, young? and brave!
Sleep, Scammel, in thy soldier grave!
Sons of the North-land, ye who set
Stoul hearts against the bayonet.
And pressed with steady footfall near
The moated battery's blazing tier,
Turn your scarred faces from the sight-
Let shame do homage to the right!'
Neither Washington, nor Rochambeau, nor seammel presented such exalted traits of character as john Brown: why, then, should he be the subject of special moral criticism and rebuke by the poet? why was his effortï¿½ a midnight raid with bloody hand, 'While theirs was made brilliant and imposing by ' knightly star and plume of snow,' and by sucessfully meeting bayonet with bayonet?
If there is danger, on the one hand, lest there may be s repudiation of the doctrine of non-resistance, through the sympathy and admiration felt for John Brown, there is more danger, on the other hand, that the brutal outcry raised against him as an outlaw, traitor and murderer by those who are either too cowardly to avow their real convictions, or too proslavery to feel one throb of pity for those in bondage, will lead to unmerited censure of his course, Difficult it may be to hold an equal balance in such a case, it is still the duty of every one to do so.
We copy, unsolicited, from the New York Herald, a letter from Hon. Henry Wilson to Henry C. Wright, which is very suggestive in the way of comments, but our columns are too crowded for remark.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
NON-RESISTANCE AND ANTI-SLAVERY.
There are no more thorough abolitionists than the small and despised set of men and women, who, having renounced the use of injurious force, call themselves Non-Resistant. Small! as this number is, I believe the two chief characteristics of the American Anti-Slavery Society-the vigor and pertinacity of its moral warfare against slavery, combined with a disuse and discouragement of the application of physical force to the overthrow of that sin-are alike, and equally, owing to  them. Recognizing, thankfully, my own indebtedness to these men-having learned from them both these great constituent parts of Christian truth, both Anti-Slavery and Non-Resistance, after the Church had given me her full course of instruction in, what she called Christianity without including, or even naming them-I will now pay one installment of this debt by a little friendly criticism; which will perhaps apply to my own past labors, as well as to those of my teachers.
I think it may be, that in the earnestness of our inculcation of Non-Resistance with Anti-Slavery, we have all somewhat helped to mislead, both those abolitionists who were not non-resistant, and the community at large. I fear that our earnest deprecation of injury to the slaveholder, even for the freedom of the slave, and our demand for patient forbearance on the part 'of the injured, more frequently in connection with the case of the slave than in other cases, has produced an <Illegible>-a  feeling-among our auditors, as though we recognized, after all, some element of rightfulness in the claim of the master, or some element of wrongfulness in the interference of a third person in behalf of the slave; as if we did not recognize the relation of slaveholder to slave to be precisely that of highway-robber to traveler; as if we did recognize some of the absurd and monstrous pretences by which the slaveholder tries to make out a claim of ownership in his brother man, as having a partial validity; as if, while admitting that the slave has a perfect right to escape clandestinely, we hesitated to admit the right of his next friend, or of any friend of right and justice, to confront the slaveholder in his behalf, and to say-' Tom shall not be confined here against his will, and be made to work without wages, while such strength as I have can help him! If he wishes to leave this place this moment, he shall do so! And if you interfere to prevent him, you must interfere with me first.' I say, I fear our manner of inculcating non-resistance has been by many persons misinterpreted, to the extent of supposing that we disapprove of this method of helping the slave. If so, there is need of great plainness of speech, and also of great emphasis, in clearing away this misconception.
To remove a preliminary difficulty here, it is needful to say that non-resistant have often incautiously allowed themselves to be entrapped into the relinquishment of other departments of right and duty while they are defending non-resistance.    We must be careful to distinguish between cases  in  which this element stands by itself, and those in which it is associated with other elements and incidents.
Was it right for France to assist the United States in throwing off the yoke of Great Britain?
Certainly.
Do you approve of war, then?
 I do not; and there is no such connection between these two things as your second question attempts to insinuate.  It was a positive and indispensable duty for France to help the United States in their vindication of their just rights. The manner in which this duty should be performed is another matter; it is an incidental question, to be decided by circumstances. But so much as this, at least, is clear. The unfortunate fact that France was a fighting nation, which had never reached even the idea of the high Christian principle of Non-Resistance, did not at all release her from the obligation to perform the plainest and most common duty of humanity, the giving of help to one in need.  It is her duty, at all events, to help.  If she knows no other way to help than by fighting, it is clearly her duty to help in that way. 
By precisely the same rule is John Brown's enterprise in Virginia to be judged. And the first thing to be done in regard to it is to shake off the opprobrious epithets by which it has been unjustly stigmatized, to show their unfitness, and to refuse to receive ill names as the description of a righteous and noble act.
If I am asked-Do you approve of Brown's raid, foray, invasion, insurrection?-I reply, I know of no such occurrence. As to the first three epithets, John Brown invaded no man's rights in Virginia. As to the fourth, insurrection is a rising against the oppressor, an attempt to overthrow and subjugate him. Brown's direction-a strict and emphatic direction-was, that no man should be harmed, except such as actually (and thus criminally) interfered to prevent the freedom of the slaves. The two men who were shot before Brown was besieged in the arsenal were shot in direct violation of his orders. And the evidence now conclusively shows that his purpose was to enable the slaves, escaping from their respective places of bondage, to make a stand in the mountains of Virginia, with arms to defend themselves if they were assaulted, and thus to furnish one place to which all the slaves of that region might resort for safety, until their numbers should enable them to make terms securing the concession of their permanent freedom. Brown's final statement-and Brown's word is more to be trusted than the oath of another man-is, that the language of his final address to the court had been misinterpreted, and that he had not intended to convoy his freed men from Virginia to Canada, but to enable them to make a stand on their native soil; to establish a city of refuge on the Shenandoah mountains; and thence .to make known to a11 the slaves within fifty miles the existence of that citadel, and to give to such of them as might seek it the means of standing at bay, instead of fleeing towards an indefinite distant freedom, with every man's hand against them until it was reached. The one great, characteristic, peculiar, essential feature of John Brown's enterprise was, the openness of his offer to help the slaves in regaining their liberty; the fact that this offer was made in presence of the slaveholders, accosting them as a band of robbers, and setting at naught alike the laws and customs by which they had attempted to sanctify their villainy,  and the force by which they proposed to uphold it.
This is the essence, the great distinctive characteristic of John Brown's enterprise. If I am asked- Do you approve this?-I answer, Yes! with all my hear, and soul, and mind, and strength.
When we come to the subordinate, incidental features of this enterprise, each must be judged on its own ground, I do not claim perfection for Brown, nothing but a fair estimate of his merits and demerits. Let us examine the charges that remain.
Was he right in seizing Lewis Washington and John H. Alstead, in putting them under restraint, and keeping them prisoners?
I reply. Undoubtedly he was right. Those men went robbers individually, and also active members of a band of robbers. They ought to long since to have been fizzed and kept under restraint, as dangerous persons, by the police of the town in which they lived. If the band of which they were members had already succeeded in getting the police, and the magistracy. And the courts, and the military into their power so that the regular representatives of law and order were powerless against them, so much the more need that some enterprising individual should commence the administration of justice, and (as the first settlers of Connecticut an said to have done) act upon the lance of  God until there was leisure to attend to that enactment of proper human laws. The restraint of evil-doers by uninjurious means is neither a wrong thing in itself, nor at variance with the Christian doctrines of Non-Resistance. And, as to Brown's alleged interference with an. existing law, order, sad government, the charge involves a monstrous illegal of
<c02>
language, and reason, and justice, in one expression. To a peak of an organization which compels one set of men to work without wages, and which drives out of its territories all who presume to censure this tyranny, and which allows and perpetrates every sort of subordinate outrage needful for the perpetuation of these two primary outrages-to Speak of this as a ‘government,' legitimately claiming the allegiance of the citizen-is to titter absurdity combined with wickedness. The more such an organization is predominant and successful, the more disorder reigns in that place. That which now calls itself a government in Virginia has not the slightest just claim upon the allegiance of any human being. To set that organization at naught, to reverse its decrees, and to establish that freedom which it has proscribed, are indispensable pre-requisites to the establishment of ' government' there.
But another incidental feature of Brown's plan was to apply such money and other available property as he found in possession of the slaveholders to the benefit of the slaves.   Was this right?
I reply. Certainly it was right, because these things are already the property of the slaves-the products of their labor-the wages wrongfully kept back from them-the property stolen from them, piece by piece, at it was earned, and, by a double injustice, perverted to the use of their oppressors, whose special pride and boast it was, that they lived in luxury without earning anything. Is it wrong for the constable to take the traveler’s property from the highwayman, to restore it to the traveler?
One piece of private property, however, was unjustifiably taken, namely, a sword, which was one of the few articles which really belonged to Lewis Washington; one of the few things in his possession which he had not stolen from the men and women whom he held as slaves. This sword, descending from Fredrick of Prussia through George Washington, came into the hands of Lewis Washington by gift or inheritance, not by plunder. This was taken by Cooke, not by Brown ; and when the latter knew its history, he promised Lewis Washington that it should be returned to him whenever the necessity of his confinement should cease.
It will next be asked-Was it right for John Brown to seize the United States arsenal?
I reply-Certainly it was right. This was the place where a still larger gang of robbers had stored their plunder; the place where a large amount of property, taken from the country at large, North and South, ostensibly to be used for the rightful purposes of a Democratic government, had been applied, by the grossest perversion from its legitimate purpose, to the defense of an oligarchic banditti which had overthrown the Democracy. That arsenal, with its contents, belonged to THE PEOPLE of the united totes, black and white, south and North. And whatever portion of that people, taking possession of this property, will use it for the purposes specified in the Constitution of the United States, namely-
‘TO POEM A MOKE PERFECT UNION, ESTABLISH JUSTICE, ENSURE DOMESTIC TRANQUILLITY, PROVIDE FOR THE COMMON DEFENCE, PROMOTE THE GENERAL WELFARE, AND   SECURE THE BLESSINGS OF LIBERTY,' will at Once Arrest the perversion of this public property, and restore it to its original and legitimate purpose. To rescue swords, muskets and pistols from the possession of robbers, and from being a reserved force to fortify the practice of robbery, is neither a bad nor a doubtful thing, but a positively good thing.
Lastly, I shall be asked-' Allowing the rectitude, and even the high nobleness and heroism of John Brown in remembering those in bonds as bound with them, in openly presenting himself to the slaveholder as the ally of the slave, and in doing his utmost to help the slaves to liberty, do you approve the manner of his doing this? Namely, his using weapons of death, and placing weapons of death in the hands of his followers, liberated slaves or others?
To this I reply-I, a Non-Resistant, can no more approve this than I can approve the use of such arms by Washington, Warren, and Lafayette in the American Revolution, by Tell and Wineries in Switzerland, by Buzzer’s in Greece, by Kosciusko in Poland, by Toussaint in Haiti, by Nathaniel Turner in Virginia, or by Garibaldi in Italy. I utterly repudiate carnal weapons, and the shedding Of blood, and the use of all injurious force. I hold human life to be absolutely inviolable. I hold liberty to be the right of all, except those whose persistence in aggravated crime makes their liberty incompatible with the safety of the community; in which case I would have them (always by the use of uninjurious force) subjected to restraint, combined with the best means of ameliorating discipline that the resources of the community could furnish, until freedom could safely be restored to them. If Brown, or any of the noble persons above named, who have deemed it right to shed the blood of others, as well as offer their own, in the cause of liberty, had asked my counsel before commencing their several enterprises, I would have advised that they refrain from the use of all injurious force, and strive to overcome evil with good. But, if they had rejected my counsel, and chosen, in full view of it, the opposite method, it would have remained not less their duty to oppose themselves to the prevailing tyranny of their respective times. It was imperatively their duty to oppose this tyranny, and to help the victims of it; and their means of doing this must of course be such means as their minds and consciences judged to be right and best, Our duty is, applauding them wherein they did well, to learn by their errors, and do better the things wherein they failed, but by no means to censure them because their action was not guided by our light.
Moreover, in justice to John Brown, we must remember that he-was a disciple and child of that A-American church which has always been the active and determined opponent of Non-Resistance.   The church here, as in most other countries, is the ally of the government, prays for it, praises it, inculcates obedience to it, and seeks to give an ill name to all who oppose it.   The history of the Non-Resistance Society shows that its official Agents, its advocates generally, and its movements, have encountered their most virulent and persistent opposition from the clergy.   They seemed to hate it with a perfect hatred. Hundreds of times were the Agents of that Society (themselves ordained ministers) refused admission to the pulpits of brother ministers to echo the precept of Jesus-'Put up thy award into the sheath!'  While on   the other hand, the clergy have entered largely into official alliance with war, by acting as chaplains in  the army  and navy,   and   by preaching annually, for the past two centuries, complimentary sermons before the Ancient and Honorable Artillery (as it calls itself) of Boston. It was much-a very notable interposition of Providence in John Brown's behalf-that he was led out from the influence of the church as far as the upholding of slavery was concerned; that he was plucked, as a brand from the burning, out of this department of her snares.   But her mischievous doctrine that the true God is the ' God of battles'-that the  universal Father is the 'Lord of hosts,'   authorizing   some of His children to hang, behead, stab and shoot others -this detestable doctrine the church had instilled into him so effectually that he never escaped from it. And he probably never took pains even to look at the question at Non-Resistance as an open question; a doctrine   that   might,   perhaps, be true; a principle which might, an its advocates declared, lie at the very root of Christianity.   Nothing, then, could be more unjust than to judge him by the same standard as if he had recognized this principle.   We cannot have grapes from thorns, nor figs from thistles.   But we can, we must say that, so far as his light extended, John Brown nobly, gloriously, did his duty to the slave.-C.K.W.

Congress still remains unorganized, and there seems to be no chance of agreement at present.
<c03>
LETTER FROM HON. HENRY WILSON TO HENRY C. WRIGHT
NATICK, Mass, Dec 27, 1859.
MR. HENRY C. WRIGHT;
Sir-On my way to Washington, I read your letters to John Brown and Gov. Wise, concerning resolution passed at a meeting in this town, to the effect that 'it is the right and duty of the North to incite slaves to resistance, and to aid them in it.' In your letters yon said that ' although a United States Senator and a United States Postmaster -were present, yet not a voice was raised against it by them, nor by any one else.' I was surprised and pained at this act of injustice on your part, this wanton attempt to place me in a false position before the country, a position in sympathy with a doctrine my heart and judgment alike condemn. Sir, when you referred to me in your letters, you knew that I had no sympathy whatever with the sentiment that ' it is the right and duty of the North to incite slaves to resistance, and to aid them in it.' When you associated my name with the action of yourself and a few other persons in that meeting who generally concur with you in sentiment, you knew you were doing an act of injustice; that your words would be used to excite, mislead and deceive those already excited, misled and deceived. Yes, sir, yon knew those words would place me in a false position-that they would be used to inflame the passions and the prejudices of the people of the South against me, and against those with whom I act, and against the cause we advocate. I have no words to characterize this act of personal unkindness and of wrong towards one who has never wronged you.
When called upon in the Senate to explain my position in the meeting which passed your resolution, I did so without casting any reflections on you who had so wantonly misrepresented me. Every fair-minded man present at that meeting will admit the correctness of what I said in the Senate concerning the passage of your resolution and the action of the meeting. Mr. J. B. Mann, a gentleman of intelligence, who was at the meeting, in a communication in the Boston Journal, says:
'The meeting was not properly a meeting of the citizens of Natick, culled for the purpose of expressing their opinion, but wins notified in the usual manner of meetings called by itinerant lecturers who wish to speak to the people. These meetings are quite common, and are attended by all classes of men-friends, opponents and the indifferent, who usually go and hear in silence, and let the lecturer, have his say unmolested.
At the meeting referred to, Mr. Wright offered a resolution to the effect 'that resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,' and therefore the slaves should be incited to resist their master. He spoke an hour and forty minutes, and explained the meaning of his resolution to be, not armed and forcible resistance, but resistance by moral, religious, social and commercial means, co make slavery unpopular and unprofitable. But very few voted on the resolution, and no one spoke but Mr. Wright.
As Gen. Wilson hand addressed a large meeting in the same place only a few evenings before, and had given his views at length and with much explicitness, condemning the action of John Brown in the strongest manner, he probably did not lee it necessary to depart from his usual custom of listening in a quiet way, and let those who hired the hall do as they pleased, and take the responsibility.
The resolution of Mr. Wright, as interpreted by him, contained nothing but a simple expression of opposition to slavery by all proper and legitimate means, but it was artfully drawn by Mr. Wright, so as to convey to those who did not hear his explanations a meaning of a different character, doubtless with a view of increasing the alarm and excitement now prevailing in the South. Whatever may be the sins of Gen. Wilson in the matter of slavery, it is not true that he has approved the act of Brown either in public or in private, but has uniformly deplored and condemned it.'
Not content with the wrong done me in your letter to Governor Wise and John Brown, you have, in a letter addressed to me, which I find in the New York Herald of the 24th inst., attempted to sustain your original act of misrepresentation. Sir, this act of injustice, this deliberate effort to associate my name with the sentiment embodied in your resolution, and to hold me responsible for the acts of a meeting in which I was a mere spectator, fills me with amazement. It being your purpose to deceive, it does not surprise me that you should have commenced your letter to me with an untruth, a palpable falsehood. In the first sentence you say that I was called upon ' to give an account to the slave-drivers for attending a meeting to discuss a resolution affirming the right and duty of slaves to resist their masters, and the right and duty of the North to aid them in it.' This statement is untrue, and you knew when you penned it that it was untrue. You had an object to gain, and that object was to raise a doubt in regard to the correctness of what I said in the Senate. The New York Herald, in commenting upon it, declares that ' Henry C. Wright, the alleged lecturer, flatly contradicts Wilson-it as not a lecture, but a meeting for discussion, publicly called.' The meeting was not called, as you say it was, ' to discuss a resolution affirming the right and duty of slaves to resist their masters, and the right and duty of the North .to aid them in it,' but it was called to hear you ' lecture;' yes, sir, to hear you ' lecture upon resistance to tyrants is obedience to God, in reference to the conduct of ' John Brown at Harper's Ferry.' The principal notice for the meeting reads:

'Rev. Henry C. Wright   will   lecture in   School House Hall, Sunday next, at the usual hours of church service, upon the following subject:
'Fact and Fiction in Religion, or the existence, occupation and location of the soul, after it leaves the body.'
Also in the evening, at 6 1-2 o'clock, upon-
‘Resistance to Tyrants is obedience to God, in reference to the conduct of John Brown at Harper's Ferry.'
Natick, November 17, 1859.'
In response to this notice-not to ' discuss n resolution' as you assert-but to hear you • lecture,' five or six hundred people of this town assembled; not less than three hundred of the number were legal voters of the Republican and Democratic parties. They came in response to the call, to hear your lecture, and not to discuss or to act. After the meeting assembled, you took the desk, asked the meeting to appoint a chairman: the getters up of the meeting appointed one, and you submitted a resolution. You made a long speech; no one else uttered a word ; the resolution was put and some ten or fifteen persons out of five or six hundred present voted for it. The great mass of the meeting did not vote; they looked on in silence, and declined to take any part whatever in the meeting, or to be in any degree responsible for its action. In no sense was the resolution an expression of the sentiments of the meeting, for more than nine-tenths of the persons present had no part in its action, and nineteenths of those present, if called upon, would so state,
Mr. Willard, the editor of the Natick Observer, in a note to me, says:
'I was present at the lecture delivered by Mr. Henry C. Wright on the 20th of November. I printed the notice of the meeting which was summoned to hear him lecture, and not ' called,' as he says in bibs letter to you, 'to discuss a resolution.'  The hall was full many prominent business men and members of the Democratic and Republican parties being present. Mr. Wright called to order, asked for a chairman, introduced the   resolution,   spoke one hour and forty minutes; no one else uttered a word, and it was in n sense a discussion.    The vote in favor of the resolution was small, not exceeding twelve.  The mass of the meeting declined to take any part in its action, or to be bound in any way by its doings.   No one present could mistake your position, for your opinions are well known.    A few evenings before, you had, in the same hall, and in presence of a large majority of thus present,   'deplored, regretted and condemned John Brown's invasion, and all illegal and violent action by anti-slavery men,' and you declared that such acts inured to the interests of slavery.   Mr.  Wright speech and his resolution-seemed to me to be slimed at the position assumed in your speech in opposition to Brown's raid, and to be in opposition to your well-known opinions, and this was the opinion of many others present.'
Sir, you say in your letter to me, than a Mr. Brown asked, is an insolent tone, if you were present and
<c04>
countenanced the meeting;' and that, when I explained, 'the slave-driver, who held the lash over you, said "I am satisfied."  'There can be no mistaking the object of language like this. You wish to convey the impression that I do not, in the Senate, stand by my words and acts at home. Sir, you had associated my name with the sentiment, that it was 'the right and duty of the North to incite slaves to resistance,' and when asked by Mr. Brown, in respectful language, tone and manner, to explain the matter, I did so by stating the true character of the meeting; and this you are pleased to denounce as 'submissive' -an attempt ' to deprecate the frowns and strafes of the insolent lords of the lash.'  This charge is base and dastardly. My words in Congress, during the past five years, are on the record. That record will show that I have never qualified, disavowed or retracted one word or act of mine out of the Senate.  That record will show that I have spoken more plainly and more severely of slavery and the slave power to the face of slaveholders, in the course of debate, than I have out of the Senate, before sympathizing throngs. During the past fifteen years, I have traveled more than fifty thousand miles in seventeen States, and delivered nearly six hundred addresses to many thousands of persons. I have been connected with the public press, and have written much upon the issues growing out of the slavery question; but, at all times, and upon all occasions, in the press and before the people, in conventions and in legislative halls, at home and in Washington, I have maintained but one position-that of peaceful, legal and constitutional opposition to the extension of human slavery in America, and to its existence where the National Government is responsible for it. To this position I still adhere with inflexible firmness, and while I abhor slavery and pity the lot of the bondman, I shall not cease to remember that slavery in the States is local, not national, and that our appeals must be addressed, not to 'the slaves to resist their masters,' not to armed invasions, but to the reason, the heart and conscience of our countrymen of the South, upon whom rests the fearful responsibility of the slave system.
You charge me and other Senators with attempting 'to throw a glamour in the eyes of Southern members '-you say that I 'would have them think that "regret and condemnation" of Brown and his objects are universal at the North,' and you assert that the 'masses of the North are in sympathy with Brown and his deeds.'   That the people of the North deeply sympathize with the personal attributes of Brown, that they admire the rare heroism of character manifested by him, no one can doubt, but that they approve of his invasion of Virginia, I do not for a moment believe.    Pending the recent election in New York, I addressed thousands of people in Brooklyn, Syracuse, Rome, Watertown, Auburn, Geneva and other places, and during the canvass of two weeks, I everywhere expressed my 'regret and condemnation' of his armed invasion of Virginia, and during that time I conversed with no one who did not regret and deplore it.  And in this Stases, and in this town, where you declare the people approve of Brown's lawless act, I have met few, very few indeed, who approve that act. My conviction is, that while the people of Massachusetts are nearly unanimous in their sympathy for the fate of Brown, and in their admiration of his personal qualities, they are quite unanimous in their 'regret and condemnation' of his lawless raid at Harper's Ferry.   Believing this to be the sentiment of the people of Massachusetts and of the North, I have so stated in public and in private.   I may be mistaken in my views, but I feel confident that I am not.   If I am mistaken, if the time has come when the liberty-loving and law-abiding people of Massachusetts are convinced-as you assume they are-that "it is the right and duty of the N north to incite slaves to resistance, and to aid them in it"-that it is the right and duty of Northern men to gather in armed bands to invade slaveholding States 'to incite slaves to resistance and to aid them in it'-then I am not the representative of their sentiments and opinions.  Within the Union and under the Constitution I shall, in the future as in the past, in public and in private life, give my voice and vote for just and peaceful legal and constitutional action against slavery.    This is my position.   I believe it to be the position of a vast majority of the people whose representative I am.  When Massachusetts abandons this policy of peaceful, legal and constitutional reform, which patriotism, humanity and religion sanction, and  accepts your policy of 'insurrection' -when she requires me to uphold the doctrine that 'it is their right and duty to incite slaves to resistance,'   and to organize armed bands and invade sister States 'to aid them in it'- there will be a vacant chair for her to fill in the Senate of the United States.
HENRY WILSON.
'THE PRACTICAL CHRISTIAN.'

The last two or three numbers of this excellent paper have been largely occupied with articles from the pen of its editor, Aden Balloon, severely condemnatory of the course of John Brown, and of all who have expressed any sympathy with him-articles that seem to us to be somewhat lacking in magnanimity, in tenderness of spirit, and in a philosophical view of events, but rather characterized by haste and heat; by a tone which would not be indulged in, we think, with reference to Moses, or Joshua, or Washington; and by a process of reasoning which is to us far from being conclusive or satisfactory.  We have very great respect for the intellectual clearness and moral insight of our Hopedale coadjutor, and for many years past have seldom found occasion to dissent from his convictions in any direction; but we cannot view the Harper's Ferry event as he does-arbitrarily and invidiously, as it appears to us-and therefore must be true to our own convictions.   We fully appreciate his anxiety to keep the non-resistance standard erect, and hope never to be left consciously to violate our peace principles; but there is scope for an honest difference of opinion as to what is such a violation, without any heat or dogmatism.  We are not tenacious of defending the extract made in the Practical Christian from our speech at the Tremont Temple; but, thanking our bro. Ballot for inserting it, we are content to leave it to the good sense and fair judgment of all who may read it, in connection with the criticisms appended to it in that paper.  What we then said, we said deliberately; nor do we feel called upon to alter one word, by a fresh examination of the subject.   Our language was, that, as an 'ultra' peace man, we were prepared to say, whenever commenced,-'Success to every slave insurrection at the South, and in every slave country!' Our bro. Ballot, on the contrary, says he 'wishes them no success, but the speediest failure'!  In such a conflict, then, ho hopes the oppressor will succeed against the oppressed; that the wrong side will triumph over the right; that the fetters may be more strongly riveted rather than broken; and that U.S. marines and Virginia troops may overcome the Virginia slaves in every encounter! Had he lived in 'the times that tried men's soulless he would have 'wished that the mother country might vanquish the American colonies, and that Cornwallis might be the victor at Yorktown, instead of Washington! And so of every other struggle for liberty with the sword since the world began!   But it is not possible that he means this; yet, if he does not, he has made a false issue with us, and is using words to no purpose.   'We deplore,' he says, 'that this case of John Brown should have been turned so effectively against Christian nonresistance, and made so seductive an argument for bloody resistance, insurrectionism, and revolution.'  We have no such fear, and come to no such conclusion.  Where freedom reigns, though obtained by the sword, we expect a growth of the peace principle, which is utterly impossible where slavery holds undisputed mastery.  Is there no such thing as progress toward the highest Christian position?
<c05>
AWFUL CALAMITY AT LAWRENCE, Mass. 
Fall of the Pemberton Mills-Seven Hundred Persons
Buried in the Ruins-Two Hundred Lives lost by Fire-The Whole City in Mourning.
Lawrence, Mass., Jan. 10-9 P. M.   One of the most terrible catastrophes on record occurred in this city this afternoon. The Pemberton Mills fell, with a sudden crash, about five o'clock, while some 600 or 700 operatives were at work. The Mills are a complete wreck, and some 200 or 300 are still supposed to be buried in the ruins.
Eighteen dead bodies hare already been taken out, and some 25 mortally wounded, besides some 50 in different stages of mutilation.
The Agent of the Mills Mr. Chase, and the Treasurer, Mr. Howe, escaped by running from the falling building.
Huge bonfires are burning, to light some two or three thousand persons who are working for their lives to rescue the unfortunate persons, many of whom are still crying and begging to be released from their tortures.
Every few minutes some poor wretch is dragged from his or her prison, and it is heart-rending to hear their cries as they are drawn out, with legs and arms crushed or torn out.
One man, shockingly mangled, and partly buried under the bricks, deliberately cut his own throat, to end his agony.
The whole city seems in mourning. Many are running through the streets, and with frantic cries are searching the ruins.
Temporary hospitals have been arranged for those who have been taken from the ruins.
Many stand at the ruins, frigid with despair. Often a terrible crash, caused by the clearing away, threatens death to all those who may still be alive in the ruins.  
Gen. H. K. Oliver is active and conspicuous in directing parties who are endeavoring to rescue the victims of the disaster. Gangs of men, with ropes, are constantly dragging out huge pieces of the wreck which imprison so many. Some of the rescuers are killed in their humane efforts.
Surgeons are coming in from every quarter, and everything that can be done at such a painful moment is being done for the suffering victims of the fearful calamity, the mystery of which will have to be cleared up by an inquest.
The building had never been considered as stanch as it ought to have been. It was built about seven years since, and was then thought a sham; indeed, before the machinery was put in, the walls spread to such a degree that some twenty-two tons of iron stays were put in to save the building from falling by its own weight.
Mr. Chase, the Agent, and Mr. Howe, the Treasurer, were both saved.
Messrs. Chase, Clark, Patterson, Melvin, and Winn, (overseers and clerks) are safe. Mr. Branch, an overseer, has not been found, and it is supposed he is still under the ruins.
The City Hall has been converted into a temporary hospital for the dead and wounded, to remain there until recognized by friends.
Scores of both dead and mangled and wounded, are recognized when taken from the ruins, and immediately taken to their homes.
The laboring force of the mill was about 960, and it is supposed that about 700 human beings were actually buried in the ruins.
Calamity Succeeds Calamity! Within the past ten minutes (midnight", the whole mass of ruins has become one sheet of dame!
The screams and moans of the poor, buried, burning and suffocating creatures can be distinctly heard, but no power on earth can save them.
Probably not less than two hundred human beings perished in the flames!
Fire companies are present from Methuen, Ando-veer, Bradford, Haverhill and Lowell.
Between forty and fifty physicians are in attendance at the City Hall, and other places, wherever the injured need their services.
The ruins having burned up, it will be many days before a true knowledge of the number of killed and wounded can be arrived at.
The fire, which finally sacrificed the buried human beings, caught, without doubt, from a lantern containing burning fluid, which was accidentally dropped.
One fireman dropped down dead in the street, probably from over-heating and over-exertion. His name is unknown.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Collections by Marius R. Robinson.
In Macedon, N. Y.,                        75
Penn Yen, N. Y.,                        2 15
W. Win field, N. Y.,                    4 85
Cedarville. N. Y.,                      0 87
Jerusalem Hill, N. Y.,                  1 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.

THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT
IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
A series of Anti-Slavery Conventions will be   held in the State of New York, as follows:-
Utica,            Monday and Tuesday,          Jan.    16, 17.
Oswego,           Tuesday and Wednesday,       Jan     17, 18.
Poughkeepsie,     Monday and Tuesday,          Jan     23, 24.
Hudson,           Wednesday,                   Jan         25.
Troy,             Friday,                      Jan         27.
Easton,           Saturday and Sunday,         Jan      28,29.
The Conventions will be addressed by Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Marius R. Robinson, Susan B. Anthony, and others.
The sessions will commence at 2 and 7 o'clock, of each day.
The platform will be free to all candid discussion of the. subject.
Let there be a grand mustering of the hosts of Freedom, to provide, by the enactment of a Personal Liberty Law, for protecting our State from the prowling kidnapper; and to remove the whole slave system before God shall arise in his anger, and swell the Harper's Ferry scenes into a Red Sea deluge for the destruction of our worse than Egyptian oppressors!

NEW YORK STATE ANNUAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held in Association Hall, Albany, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 31st and Feb. 1st and 2d.
Speakers-Wendell Phillips, Parker Pillsbury, Marius R. Robinson, Leonard Gibbs. Aaron M. Powell, Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones, Susan-B. Anthony and others.
Convention to commence at half-past 7 o'clock, Tuesday P. M.
Let every county in the State be represented. This, surely, is the hour for the friends of Freedom to rally at the Capital, that our rulers may feel the united voice of the Empire State for a Personal Liberty Law.
NEW YORK STATE WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION will be held in Association Hall, Albany, Feb. 3d and 4th, commencing at half-past 2 o'clock, Friday P. M.
Addresses by Wendell Phillips, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Mrs. Lucy Cutler, J. Elizabeth Jones, Frances D. Gage, and others.
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL    COURSE   OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
The Sixth Lecture of this series will be given by Wm. Lloyd Garrison, on Sunday evening next, Jan. 15, in Lyceum Hall.
Lecture to commence at 7 o'clock. Single admission, 5 cents.
CAROLINE BACH, Rees. Sec. Salem Female A. S. Society. Sal-me, Jan. 12,
DEBATE ON ' GARRISONIAN ABOLI-TIONISM.-The debate at the Mercantile Library Association of Boston, on Monday evening, Jan. 16, is to be upon the question-• Has Garrisoning Abolitionism been of any practical service so the cause of freedom?"
Gentlemen and ladies are invited to attend.
TO Farmers OR OTHERS IN THE COUNTRY.-A young man, on his first visit to the North, desires a place for the winter in the country; can do most of the ordinary work of a farm, and desires immediate employment Terms Terry reasonable.   Apply to Samuel, Mir, Jr., 21 Corn hill
 CLOTHING FOR FUGITIVES, especially for men, and suited to the season,  is much wanted, and may be sent by any well-wisher to No. 21 Corn-hill, Boston.

The Thinker;
BEING the 5th volume of the "Great Harmonica, by A. J. Davis, is just published and ready for Delivery.   Price One Dollar.  Single copies sent by mail, postage free, on receipt of the price.   The usual discount on wholesale price. Address BELA HARSH, 14 Bromeliad street Boston, Dec 16.                                 6w •
<c06>
Scrofula, or King's Evil,
is a constitutional disease, a corruption of the blood, by which this fluid becomes vitiated, weak and poor. Being in the circulation, if pervades the whole body, and may burst out in disease on any part of it. No organ is free from its attacks, nor is there one which it may not destroy. The scrofulous taint is variously caused by mercurial disease, low living, disordered or unhealthy food, impure air, filth and filthy habits, the depressing vices, and, above all, by the venereal infection. Whatever be its origin, it is hereditary in the constitution, descending " from parents to children onto the third and fourth generation ;" indeed, it seems to be the rod of Him who says, "I will visit the iniquities of the fathers upon their children."
Its effects commence by deposition from the blood of corrupt or ulcerous matter, which, in the lungs, liver, and internal organs, is termed tubercles ; in the glands, swellings; and on the surface, eruptions or sores. This foul corruption, which genders in the blood, depresses the energies of life, so that scrofulous constitutions not only suffer from scrofulous complaints, but they have far less power to withstand the attacks of other diseases; consequently, vast numbers perish by disorders which, although not scrofulous in their nature, are still rendered fatal by this taint in the system. Most of the consumption which decimates the human family has its origin directly in this scrofulous contamination ; and many destructive diseases of the liver, kidneys, brain, and, indeed, of all the organs, arias from or are aggravated by the same cause.
One quarter of all our people are scrofulous; their persons are invaded by this lurking infection, and their health is undermined by it. To cleanse it from the system we must renovate the blood by an alterative medicine, and invigorate it by healthy food and exercise. Such a medicine we supply in
AYER'S
Compound Extract of Sarsaparilla,
the most effectual remedy which the medical skill of our times can devise for this every where prevailing and fatal malady. It is combined from the most active remedial that have been discovered for the expurgation of this foul disorder from the blood, and the rescue of the system from its destructive consequences. Hence it should be employed fat the cure of not only scrofula, but also those other affections which arise from it, such as Eruptive and Skin Diseases, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose, or Erysipelas, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Blains and Boils, Tumors, Tatter and Salt Rheum, Scald Head, Ringworm, Rheumatism, Syphilitic and Mercurial. Diseases, Drops, Dyspepsia, Debility, and, indeed, ALL COMPLAINTS ARISING FROM VITLATED OR IMPURE BLOOD. The Popular belief in "impurity of the blood " is founded in truth, for scrofula is a degeneration of the blood. The particular purpose and virtue of this Sarsaparilla is to purify and regenerate this vital fluid, without which sound health is impossible in contaminated constitutions.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR ALL THE PURPOSES OF A FAMILY PHYSIO,
are so composed that disease within the range of their action can rarely withstand or evade them. Their penetrating properties search, and cleanse, and invigorate every portion of the human organism, correcting its diseased action, and restoring its healthy vitalities. As a consequence of these properties, the invalid who is bowed down with pain or physical debility is astonished to find his health or energy restored by a remedy at once so simple and inviting.
Not only do they cure the every-day complaints of every body, but also many formidable and 'dangerous diseases. The agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis my American Almanac, containing certificates of their cures and directions for their use in the following complaints: Costiveness, Heartburn, Headache, arising from disordered stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Pain and Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Jaundice, and other kindred complaints, arising from a. low state of the body or obstruction of its functions.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral,
For The BAPID Cure OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in. advanced stages of the disease.
So wide is the field of its usefulness and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of country abounds in persons publicly known, who have-been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other medicine of its kind is too apparent to escape observation, And where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cons too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL. MASS.
THEODORE Metcalf & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & Cashing,
BROWN & PRICE, Salem 
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord. N. H.
Sold by Druggists and, Dealers in Medicine every where.                    6 m

CARPETING
'A11 the Year Bound'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(Near Winter street,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from Eng-land, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Walton’s, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plays, Kidderminster’s, &c. Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths, and qualities). Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Fallings, Canton and Cocas Matting.
A1SO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept.16

JUST PUBLISHED,
The John Brown Invasion,
AN AUTHENTIC HISTORY
-OF THE-
HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY:
With full details of the
CAPTURE TRAIL AND EXECUTION OF THE INVADERS.
and all the incidents connected therewith; with a Lithographic Portrait of Capt. John Brown, from a Photograph by Apple.
Published by JAMES CAMPBELL, 62 and 64 Corn hill, Boston. For sale by J. J. DYER & CO., A. WILLLVMS & CO., REDDING & CO., and by Newsmen and Periodical Dealers throughout the Free States.            Dec 30

Resistance to Slaveholders!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, en titled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION 
or,
Resistance to Slaveholders the Right and Duty of the Southern Slave and Northern Freeman.
by Henry c.Wright.
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Bella March's 14 browsed street, Boston, and at the Liberator office, 21 care hill. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>POETRY
FOR the Liberator.
SONNETS-TO JOHN BROWN
I
TIS not all man can do will make thee vile,
'Tis not what man can say makes a name base:
Noble, strong-hearted Brown! such is thy case:
Slavery may hold thee in its grasp a while,
Faint, Weary, wounded; and triumphant smile.
Hoping to crush thee, and disgrace thy name;
They but mistake, Each outery, and each sneer,
But show her cruel cowardice and fear;
Such terror, ill-concealed, but spreads thy fame.
Thy memory to future times how dear,
When slavery is rooted from the land,
And Afric's children, free, unfettered, stand,
Sharing with their white brethren equal laws;
Oh generous martyr to a glorious cause!
II.
And-dare they threat that grey and bleeding head,
Survivor of thy sons for Freedom slain,
Slain to free Kansas' soil from Slavery's tread,
And to unclasp the wretched negro's chain?
Yes, ’Southern Chivalry, 'like some of old,
For base revenge, and sordid lust of gold,
Ye may hang high your victim! But, beware
The wicked deed! He is above ye now,
And so shall still remain. Your sons will bow
With shame, that they such fathers' names should bear;
The rope that slays your victim drags ye down
To your unhonored graves, unwept, forlorn;
And passers-by survey them with a frown,
Pointing the finger of reproach and scorn,
Tenterden, (England.)JANE ASHBY,
FRIEND GARRISON-I send you a few lines that were read, the other evening, in this place, upon the character of John Brown, the martyr. It is the production of a mechanic while at work at his lathe a man of no education. It had a good effect upon the audience.                    J.O.N.
Plainville,(Ct.)Jan.2,1860.
JOHN BROWN.
John Brown, of Osawatomie,
I vindicate to-night;
For he, like men of other times,
Did battle for the right.
And though his Waterloo has come,
His name shall live in song,
And, arm in arm with Washington,
In Freedom's name be borne.
A history for coming time-
A beacon-light to man-
John Brown, of Osawatomie,
Will lead in Freedom's van.
America shall own his worth,
United yet as one;
And old Virginia blush to tell
For what his martyrdom.
Each child upon his mother's knee
will learn his history o'er;
And, as our washington, he'll be
Remembered evermore.
In every land where freedom strikes
The still untiring blow,
His fate shall nerve the patriot's arm
With vengeance on the foe.
High in the scale of being stands
A martyr such as he;
And few on earth will die so well,
of all the crowds that be.
Scarce in the history of the past
Such nobleness we find,
As one who perils life and all
To benefit his kind.
But such there were in early days,
And such all time will see,
Till o'er the earth an every land
The human race are free. S.N.
THE MARTYR OF HARPER'S FERRY.
No longer plain John Brown,
But now enshrined a saint,
Such as of olden time
The masters loved to paint. D.R.
For the Liberator.
APPEAL TO THE SOUTH.
Benighted south! why will ye not awake?
It is already dawn!
From off your eyes the scales of blindness shake!
No longer scorn
The honest counsel of your truest friends.
Not they who smile so basely on your sin,
Who have at heart naught but their selfish ends,
And meanly lick the dust your grace to win.
Not these indeed!
But they who of your danger give alarm,
Who seek your good alone, and not your harm-
Their counsel heed!            D.R.
From the New York Independent.
BROWN OF OSAWATOMIE.
John BROWN OF Osawatomie
Spake on his dying day
'I will not have to shrive my soul
A priest in Slavery's pay.
But, let some poor slave mother,
Whom I have striven to free,
With her children, from the gallows-stair,
Put up a prayer for me!'
John Brown of osawatomie,
They led him out to die;
And, lo! a poor slave mother
With her little child pressed high.
Then the bold, blue eye grew tender,
And the old harsh face grew mild,
As he stopped between the jeering ranks,
And kissed the negro's child!
The shadows of his stormy life
That moment fell apart:
Without the rash and bloody hand,
within the loving heart.
That kiss from all its guilty means
Redeemed the good intent,
And round the grisly fighter's hair
The Martyr's aureole bent!
Perish with him the folly
That seeks through evil good!
Long live the generous purpose
Unstained with human blood!
Not the raid of midnight terror,
But the thought which underlies;
Not the outlaw's pride of daring,
But the Christian sacrifice.
Oh! never may you blue-ridged hills
The Northern rifle hear,
Nor see the light of blazing homes
Flash on the negro's spear!
But let the free-winged angel, Truth,
Their guarded passes scale,
To teach that right is more than might,
And justice more than mail!
So vainly shall Virginia set
Her battle in array;
In vain her trampling squadrons Kneed
The winter snow with clay.
She may strike the pouncing eagle,
But she dare no: harm the dove;
And every gate she bars to Hate,
Shall open wide to Love! J.G.W
<C02>
THE LIBEBATOR
JOHN BROWN COMMEMERATION MEETING AT WEST BROOKFIELD, VT
DEAR MR. GARRISON—Of the many meetings held on Dec. 2d,I will give you a brief sketch of one in the little mountain-environed village of West Brook field, Vt. The people of that place, and some of the adjoining towns, to a much greater number than could have been expected on such a rainy evening, assembled to give expression to their views of the execution of John Brown, and sympathy for his afflicted family.  The meeting was opened by Rev. Jehiel claflin, who read a chapter from the Bible concerning the crucifixion of Christ, and offered prayer. They then organized by appointing Rev. J. Claflin President; J. Hutohinson, Jr. and J. M. Coburn Vice President; E. F. Claflin, Treasurer; Mrs. Abby Hutchinson, Secretary. The following series of reslutions was presented, and earnestly and interestingly discussed:
1. Resolved, That the recent tragedy at Harper's Ferry, on the 17th of October last, is but the legitimate fruit and outworking of the abhorrent slave system in our land, and is a new and startling proof that we are on the eve of a mighty revolution, more noble, more patriotic, and more sublime, than the revolutionary struggle that gained our national independence.
2. Resolved, That in the language of Thomas Jefferson, ‘one hour of the slave's bondage is fraught with more misery than ages of that which our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose; therefore, the patriotism and heroism of Capt. John Brown, in his recent and wellmeant, but unsuccessful attempt to rescue, at the peril of his life, four millions of men, women and children from the grasp of tyrants, and from the unendurable wrongs and cruelties of American Slavery, far transcend those noble qualities in Gen. Washington or Lafayette. 
3. Resolved, That the malignity and guilt of those who have this day taken the life of Capt. John Brown upon the gallows, find their parallel only in the crucifiers of the Son of God upon the Cross.
4. Resolved, That as ‘the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church,' so the death of Capt. Brown will intensify the ‘irrepressible conflict,' and hasten the downfall of the slave power and its despotic rule —thus disappointing the hopes and defeating the wicked purposes of tyrants and oppressors.
5. Resolved, That Osawatomie Brown has justly earned an immortality of fame, and his name, in all the coming ages of the future, will stand in enviable contrast with many illustrious names that adorn the pages of history.
6. Resolved, That the people of the North will show themselves arrant hypocrites and cowards, if they do not avenge the blood of John Brown, in demanding the immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave within the precincts of the American Government.
7 Resolved, That the deeply afflicted family of Capt. Brown are peculiarly entitled to, and have a strong claim upon the sympathies and aid of all who love liberty, and bate oppression; and all should feel it a privilege to contribute of their mites in aid of said family, who have this day been wickedly bereft of their worthy and honored head.
8. Resolved, That in the conflict we have engaged with Slavery, in this land, our motto henceforward shall ever be—VICTORY or DEATH!
There was a diversity of opinion concerning the policy of the last great project of John Brown, but none whatever concerning the indescribable evils of the system with which he waged war to the death. It seemed difficult for some to define their feelings— they were so conflicting as to baffle analysis; yet their sympathy with John Brown himself, their abhorrence of slavery, and determined intention to use their utmost endeavors for its overthrow, were manifestly apparent.
Those who gloried in our war of independence, and justified a resort to physical force for any purposes, gave their entire approval of the last act of John Brown, and believed him a hero, before the lustre of whose name the glory of the revolutionary fathers would grow dim. They believed we had reached a crisis in our national affairs, which demanded just such decisive measures. One gentleman remarked that we had tried the ballot-box long enough; he was for exchanging it for the cartridge-box. He thought the slaveholders would have a much greater fear of the latter. Rev. J. Claflin spoke at greater length than either of the speakers, but I am unable to report his words.  He considered the Harper's Ferry tragedy a natural result of the workings of the slave system—said our government, measured in the balance of essential justice, was found wanting. He thought the nation would never sleep over the awakened interest of this occasion—expressed deep sympathy with John Brown and his family, and the slave as well.
 The meeting was free and familiar, and many expression of sympathy were given. A very creditable contribution was taken in aid of the bereaved family.
Bells were tolled in Braintree and Randolph, and in Randolph a public meeting was also held.
What did all the gatherings, enthusiasm, interest and sympathy of that day betoken, save the outpouring of the great heart of the people in resistance to the system of slavery, which our government protects and fosters? And when the people become sufficiently aroused, can their power be resisted?
ABBY HUTCHINSON, Sec'y.
REMARKS OF JAMES HUTCHINSON, JR.
At the John Brown Commemoration Meeting at West Brookfield, Vt.
MR. PRESIDENT— To-day, another illustrious name has been added to the long list of martyrs who have given their lives for the good of others. The tolling of a thousand bells has announced to the people, all over the land, that John Brown has been executed by the slaveholding power of one of the States of this Union, and the many public meetings like the one present but give expression to the general indignation.
However much any one may question the propriety of the undertaking which has resulted so fatally to him and his associates, all will admit that so brave and valiant a band deserved a better fate. It is true that he violated the laws of a slave State; for he endeavored to aid his fellow-men in gaining their freedom—and that is the worst of crimes in one half of the States of this Union. It said also by some, that he intended to incite a rebellion among the slaves, and bring on a revolution; and for this he must die. Although John Brown says that such was not his intention, yet let us not forget that Washington, Jefferson, Franklin and Adams were once charged with same crime; and the only reason that they did not suffer the same fate that he has to-day suffered, is that their revolution was successful, while John Brown, with a score of men, was conquered by the allied forces of the Federal Government and the State of Virginia. But there are others here who will speak of the causes and the consequences of the last great act of the brave man who has fallen. I will say something of his previous efforts to aid the oppressed.
His love of free institutions led him to settle with his sons in Kansas, at the time when the Slave Power was determined no abolitionist should settle there. They made their homes at Osawatomie, which was destined soon to be the theatre of a bloody strife between roving bands of Border Ruffians on the one side, and the peaceable settlers on the other.
Osawatomie was among the first towns to be destroyed by the invaders, and John Brown and his family were among the first sufferers. Again the town was built up, and again was it destroyed by the
<co3>
hireling bands from Missouri. This time, John Brown was a still more unfortunate sufferer. The attack was made so suddenly, that, before the scattered inhabitants could collect in sufficient numbers to meet the enemy, more than twenty houses were burned to the ground, including those of John Brown and his sons. Two of his sons were also taken prisoners, and exposed to such hardships and cruelties, that one of them became, for a time, insane.
Driven almost to madness by these multiplied sufferings, he resolved to take the field at the head of a small band of brave men, who, like himself, were ready to risk their lives for the good of the outraged territory. His first and most determined object was to release his two sons; but they were held prisoners under laws imposed upon them by invaders from a slave State, and guarded by United States dragoons. Again was ill-fated Osawatomie attacked, and one of John Brown's sons shot dead while engaged in his peaceful employment.
The sorrow-stricken old man, as he that day returned to his desolate, adopted home, met the remaining members of the family mourning over the dead body of the son and brother who had been murdered in his absence. The brave old hero could endure no more. Dropping upon his knees, he supplicated the supreme Ruler for the protection of his remaining family: then, taking a solemn oath that he would never cease his labors till Kansas was free from such hordes of murderers, he started to arouse his neighbors to action; and he did not sleep till he had overtaken and made prisoners of more than twenty of the ‘law and order' ruffians.
For this he was indicted for treason, and for months he was called an outlaw by a government that had refused to protect him or his family. But I need not tell more of his sufferings and labors in Kansas.  The history of that Territory is full of accounts of his bravery and generosity. We are also well aware that our national government encouraged the invaders, who caused so much suffering, outrage and murder, by giving their leaders all the offices of honor and profit, and at the same time hunting down and imprisoning the most prominent free State settlers. 
By and by, Mr. President, John Brown had done his duty in Kansas. By him, and other like noble spirits, freedom was secured to the ‘Italy of America.' But his work was not yet done. He felt that he owed the same duty to the black man who toiled on the plantations of Missouri, that he did to the white man on the prairies of Kansas. A slave went to him, and implored his assistance and protection toward a free land. He, with ten others, was to be sold the next day; and Brown, true to his convictions of duty, accompanied him to his quarters, effected their release, and conducted them in safety to the land where the colored man is free. Again he returned to his home; and again, so successful had he been in all his undertakings, that he began to think himself a man of destiny, chosen by the Almighty to lead the slave from his bondage. A grand and noble scheme was devised, of liberating thousands by a single blow. It was an idea worthy of the man; the man was worthy of the idea.  Had he been successful in his enterprise, the world would have applauded, his name been revered, and his memory cherished long after the system of American slavery shall have passed away.
We may say he was rash and imprudent in undertaking so hazardous an enterprise, in the very heart of the nation, with only a score of men; but let all withhold censure, in consideration of his unselfish, benevolent intentions. Mr. President, were I a slave, and compelled to toil unpaid for a Southern master— forbidden to call my wife, my children, or my life my own—liable to be chained and sold, with no rights in the present, no hope in the future but in rebellion and revolution—I should cherish the name of John Brown, the martyr of to-day, as the brightest star in the galaxy of American patriots.
The nation will not soon forget the experience through which we are passing. We shall remember how hundreds of pro-slavery ruffians marched into Kansas, and for two years attempted to subdue and drive out all settlers who were opposed to slavery; and that the government encouraged them. We shall also remember how John Brown and his Spartan band went into a slave State to aid men in getting their liberty; and for it they all must die. Such is America to-day. History will tell to future ages a sad story of the first three-quarters of a century of American independence.  But the future is full of hope. ‘The lesson of to-day' will have an effect but few can even imagine.
To-night, thousands of slaves will learn the mournful tidings that their best friend has fallen; and in the stillness of darkness, they will whisper their firm resolves to try alone the dangerous path over which he would so gladly have led them.
John Brown was born in New England, and he ever loved the free institutions of his native land; but he was a citizen of the world, and his large heart embraced all mankind.  He would have all share alike the blessings of liberty. 
Virginia may boast that she has taken his life, but his spirit still lives to cheer the hopes and inspire the thoughts of generations yet to be. The South may think with John Brown dies all the hope of the enslaved, but let her remember that
‘Freedom's battle, once begun.
Bequeathed from bleeding sire to son, 
Though baffled oft, is ever won.'
Mr. President, while we contemplate the life and fate of John Brown, let us not forget his last request to the American people, that we should remember his afflicted family.
THE 2d  OF DECEMBER AT WAUKEGAN.
WAUKEGAN Dee. 11, 1859. 
FRIEND GARRISON,—In common with a great many others, we had a meeting here, commemorative of the death of the glorious old  martyr,  John Brown, at which the following preamble and resolutions were passed:-
Whereas, The late execution of John Brown demonstrates that American slavery  victimixes  the bravest and best of men; therefore 
Resolved, That we will neither be a party in its turpitude, nor obey its behest, but will strenuously strive now and ever to banish it from every foot of American soil.
Resolved, That as the possibility never had occurred to us of men being tried, condemned, and convicted, and executed by law, for their faithfulness to the Golden Rule and the Declaration of Independence, under the Constitution of the United States, as at present construed and carried mil, the glorious stars and stripes, and the blessed Union:  so we, from henceforth, place no confidence in those institutions for the protection of life or liberty, under thee present administration of Government.
Resolved, That we will with our might, mind and strength, do our utmost to make Illinois a free State. Moved, That the Resolutions be published in both city papers.
Moved, That a copy be sent to Gov. wise and President BUCHANAN.
The underscored part of the second resolution was inserted on motion of a would-be Member of Congress, who agrees when elected, to swear to support the Constitution of the U.S. as he understands it, and who, on the Slavery question, seems vary anxious to have a face on the back part of his head.
The amendment was made with the ostensible object of making it conform to the sense of the meeting. I think, however, that, as it now reads, it conforms quite as little to the sense of that gathering as you will see that it does to an article called common sense.  However, the resolutions-especially the first two—elicited quite a discussion, and left impression on the minds of those it attendance which I think will be lasting, in the expression of opinion, by those who spoke. With three exceptions, they were favorable
<C04>
to the cause which the noble old hero espoused, viz:, impartial human liberty; and those three were, first, a Swedenborgian, from the Bay State; 2nd, a Spiritualist  from the Green Mountain; and, 3d, a renegade. Quaker from R. I.;—and by far the bitterest of the, trio was the 'unfriendly Friend.' Robber,' murderer,'&e., were epithets which he belched forth, with all the bitterness of a model Democrat. I think the watch-word, No Union with Slaveholders will be more cherished here than it ever has been before, and that a higher standard of Anti-Slavery will be erected and maintained than heretofore.
Yours, for the war against Slavery, 
THOS. REID.

EXECUTION OF JOHN BBOWN.
A public meeting of the citizens of Marlboro',(Mass.) was convened in the town hall on Friday evening, Dec. 2, to express their sentiments respecting the execution of John Brown, and their sympathy with his afflicted family.  The meeting was called to order by 0. W. Albee, Principal of the High School.  Mr. Howe was chosen Chairman, and Wm. F. Brigham, Secretary.  Mr. Howe mad a few remarks on the event that had called the people together, and then called on Mr. Albee to address the meeting. Mr. A. responded by referring to the tragic event of to-day, and then passed to a review of the aggressions of the Slave Power, and their effect on such minds as his who had that day passed to heaven from a Virginia gallows. John Brown could not have been true to his convictions of right and duty, and have done or suffered less.  He said he(Brown) was a believer in the Old Testament as well as in the New, and believed in gunpowder as well as in prayer; and, acting up to this standard, he inevitably must meet such an end. Mr. A. would not argue that all his actions were judicious; but, viewed from Brown's standpoint, he saw a heroism and an unselfishness rarely equalled, and never surpassed, in history. 
Charles Brigbam expressed his deep sorrow for so painful an event, and expressed a determination to be more devoted to the cause of freedom than he had heretofore been.
 Rev. Mr. Wakefield, of Feltonville, was the next speaker; and for more than thirty minutes he spoke with a fervor and eloquence rarely surpassed—portraying the wrongs of the slave, the outrages inflicted upon Kansas, the stirring scenes through which Brown and his compeers had passed, and the terrible destiny that awaits this guilty nation, and the certainty that disunion and bloodshed must be the final result. 
Rev. Mr. Alger, late pastor of the Unitarian society, was the next speaker. He said he was not prepared to make a set speech; but he expressed in glowing terms his approbation of the sentiments of the last speaker, and believed the conduct of Brown justifiable, but perhaps wanting wisdom. But who is not fallible in judgment? 
Isaac Osgood contrasted the present state of feeling existing between Virginia and Massachusetts, and that of 1776, and thought the experiment at that time was an entire failure, so far as freedom was concerned. He would not care, when be came to look for the last time on the setting sun, to know that this Union was preserved, but would wish that that orb might not rise upon a master nor set upon a slave.
A collection was taken for the family of Brown, and the meeting closed.

OBSERVANCE OF THE DAY IN ALBANY.
In Albany, three meetings of sympathy for John Brown were held on Friday—morning, afternoon, and evening—Dec. 2. Between the hours of 12 and 2, minute guns were fired from, the foot of State street. At the forenoon meeting, the following resolutions were adopted:— 
Resolved, In the language of Henry Clay, that while we’ would not force liberty upon other nations, 'we’ maintain that an oppressed people are authorized, whenever they can, to rise and break their fetters.'(See speech March 24. 1818.)
Resolved, That so long as Pulaski, Kosciusko, De Kalb, Steuben and Lafayette, are justly honored for their devotion to the freedom of a people not their own, the equally heroic and disinterested efforts of John Brown to give liberty to a race alien to his own, must receive the sympathy and honor of all lovers of Liberty and Human Rights.
Resolved, In view of the recent arrest of Dr. Breed, in the city of Washington, for’ an expression of opinion,' we adopt the language of the Evening Journal, of this city:—'The questions of Compromise, of the admission of new States, and of the regulation of Territorial affairs, which have convulsed our Union, are all insignificant compared with the RIGHT or FREE SPBECH.'
Resolved, That it is more and more our duty as citizens of a Free State, to absolve ourselves from all complicity with Slavery; that one of the most important and feasible measures in this direction is the enactment of a stringent and effective PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW; and that we will not cease to petition for such a law until it is duly incorporated among our Statutes.
The following were adopted at the evening meeting:—
Resolved, That while Christians may disagree as to the merit of John Brown's act, all must recognize the parallel between his effort and the more successful one made by Moses, when he led the Israelitish bondmen out of Egypt.
Resolved, That while patriots may not all approve the course of John Brown, yet so long as the remembrance of the effort of Deeatur's men to liberate the American captives from the Algerines, and the equally heroic attempt of the two Americans who went to Austria to rescue Lafayette from the dungeon of Olmutz, remains, we must accord to John Brown honor and glory equally with those' rave heroes of the past.
The day was dark and gloomy, and, as one of the speakers remarked, like as on another memorable day, the sun refused to shine.' Large placards were posted about the city, reading thus:—
GIVE ME LIBERTY OR GIVE ME DEALTH!'
EXECUTION
OF
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN.
BROWH MEETING AT NATICK.
The citizens of this town held an effective meeting on the evening of Dec 2d, to express their sympathy for John Brown and his martyr spirit.'
Among those who consented to take an active part and to address the meeting, was Rev. N. L. George, the wholesale slanderer of Wm. L. Garrison and all who sympathize with this type of Anti-Slavery.  Mr. George is the pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He is the veritable man who came to Milford, and gave a re-hash of his tirade of personal abuse and slander,which you, friend Garrison answered both at Natick and Mil ford.  And for his vituperation and bitterness, he will long be remembered. Now for a revelation of his true character and position.
This Rev. gentleman was the first speaker introduced. He claims to be a friend(?) of the Slave, and his remarks showed him to be as friendly as Gov. Wise of Virginia. He said—the golden rule was not always to be observed or obeyed; that a criminal on whom the judge is about to pass sentence, might My to him—remember the golden rule,—' Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you.' In a case like this, he remarked, the duty of the judge would be to pass sentence on the criminal, because he had violated a law. Slavery is constitutional, therefore lawful; consequently, the cases of the criminal and slave are parallel—one has violated a law, and must answer for it; the other is lawfully a slave, and must not be assisted to freedom, nor strive for it himself, because such acts would be unlawful.
Pretty logic this for a man calling himself a friend
<co5>
to the slave, and claiming public attention. at a meeting of sympathy for the down-trodden and oppressed! Well, murder will out.  We know where to find this pretended minister of Christ, A writer in the 'Natick observer' has given this Rev. Mr. George what he richly deserves.
The Natick meeting was folly attended, and gave evidence of an advance spirit for the right kind of anti-Slavery—that something more than ‘curiosity' governed the men and women present.
G. W. S.

THE NORTH CAROLINA CASE.
FRIEND GARRISON:—In the month of September last, I noticed in the Washington National Era an account of the arrest and imprisonment of four colored seamen, said to be at Washington,(though it afterwards proved to be Wilmington, N. C) on the charge of being engaged in the abduction of slaves, and an urgent appeal for funds for the expense of their defence, to be sent to Lewis Tappan, Esq. of New York, and I forwarded to him a small donation for this purpose, and afterwards, by his request, a slip from the Era, with the account of this transaction. I have just now received a letter from Mr. Tappan, enclosing some documents, from which he requests me to make a statement of the case, to be published in the Liberator.
Nothing is known to us of the circumstances which led to the apprehension of these men, or the grounds on which they were suspected of the crime charged; but, it seems, they were tried at a Court in Wilmington for their lives, under a law of North Carolina, an extract of which I send yon herewith.  The trial was had under fudge D. P. Caldwell, and the result of it, as well as the character of the men, is shown by the following statement rendered to Mr. Tappan by his correspondent:—
‘Statement of the trials and the case at Wilmington. N. C. on the 25th August, 1859, as to four colored seamen.
1. William Tubbs, who stated he was brought up in Edinburgh City, N. C. and went to Port Haven, or some other village North of Boston, and has a wife there—very intelligent—of yellow color. On the trial acquitted, but retained in prison, on the motion of Robert Strange, the State's Solicitor for the 5th Judicial Court of N. C, for the reason that the Indictment was defective, and that no judgment could have been rendered if he had been found guilty, and therefore he is liable to be indicted again for the same offence, and to be tried for his life again.
 2nd. Thomas Lansfield, or Thomas Winsfield, from St. Kitts, West India Islands—tall, black, cannot talk plain.  He was found guilty, and Judge Caldwell granted a new trial for him; for the Jury, through misapprehension,(strong prejudice, I think,) found against His Honor's charge.
'3d. William Summers, of Sandwich Islands, Ohmahoo. He was acquitted out and out, and discharged.
' 4th. John Williams, from Sierra Leone, Africa— acquitted out and out, and discharged.
MORE MONEY IS WANTED. Dec. 20th, 1859.' 
I think you will agree with me, that there can be no doubt of the entire innocence of these men, when they were all arrested together; and three of the four were at once acquitted by a jury, and the other by a Judge, in a Southern Court; and yet, two of them are I again to be tried for their lives, at' New Hanover Superior Court,' on the 23d of March, 1860. The very slightest presumptive evidence or misapprehension may be sufficient to condemn them, and a plain judicial murder be thus committed, in the present exasperated state of mind in the South against all black and colored people, as well as the citizens of the North. The publication of the statement I now present to you may  possibly  have some effect to prevent this, especially if copied into other papers; and as the best defence is requisite to effect' prejudice,' may not the pockets of wealthy anti-slavery men be touched through their hearts? Respectfully and cordially,
J. P. BLANCHARD.
[COPY.]
‘If any person shall wilfully carry or convey any slave, the property of another, without the consent of the owner, or the guardian of the owner, with the intent and for the purpose, of enabling such slave to escape out of this State from the service of his owner, or any one having an interest in such slave, present or future, vested or contingent, legal or equitable— or if any person shall wilfully conceal any slave, the I property of another, with such intent and purpose— the person so offending shall suffer DEATH.'—Revised Code of North Carolina, Chapter 34th, Section 11, page’,204.

TENTERDEN,(England,) Dec. 1, 1859.
MY DEAR SIR:
|I send you some lines, written on the spur of the moment, on the late cool and atrocious cruelty of the slaveholders to God's and Nature'S nobleman, Capt. John Brown. If they hang him, they will gibbet themselves. What stirring times an the present May God prosper the labors of yourself and friends: for the freedom of our black brethren!  I quite agree with you in your objections to war with the sword; that seldom helps a good cause, and but does evil.that good may come. Yet all do not think thus, and each has a right to his own opinion, as well as to express it by word or pen.
How many noble men and women America contains! God bless them all, however they differ with respect to the means by which they seek to do good, and lead society onward and upward!
I have not been favored by hearing Miss Remond,’ for she has not come so far South; but I am told that a friend of mine has had that pleasure, and also met | her in society, and was much pleased with her.
I feel sun that the presence of the Rev. S. J. May in England has given a new impetus to John Bull's hatred of slavery, and I congratulate you and all other friends of the slave on his safe return.
I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
JANE ASHBY.
At a meeting of the gentlemen endorsing the projected institution to meet the increasing literary wants of the colored people of Chatham, Canada West, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That we, the Trustees appointed to hold the contemplated School and Lyceum property of the School now taught by Mrs. A. F. Shadd and M. A. S. Cary, an thoroughly satisfied with the report made; by Mrs. Cary of her labors and success in raising funds for the object, during her recent visit to the Eastern States, and we unite with the teachers in our thanks to the benevolent for their donations thus far in aid of the work.
By order of the Board.
S. R. ALEXANDER, Chairman.
A Washington Republican letter-writer says:
‘The Republicans in the meanwhile, are in no wise disconcerted. They feel confident that, sooner or later, John Sherman will be Speaker of the House of Representatives, and I think that they are disposed to show, by prudent action, rather than by words, that they are by no means responsible for John Brown's invasion of Virginia, although some who an politically affiliated with them may have encouraged him in his Kansas career. Mr. Sherman himself said, on the floor of Congress, in 1856:” If I had my voice, I would not have one single political abolitionist in the Northern States. I am opposed to any interference by the Northern people with slavery in the slave States. I act with the Republican party, with hundreds of thousand of others, simply because the Republican party resists the extension, but does not seek the abolition of slavery.'
What folly and criminality to leave uncared for he cause of all our troubles and perils!
<C06>
It IS NOT A DYE
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
THE ONLY PREPARATION that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. this is entirely different from all others.
IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorative?
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis’. St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE.
given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. it can be used with perfect safety and it perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER IS worthy of confidence.
Philadelphia Christian chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used. N. Y. Evangelist.
'All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer. N. Y.INDEPENDENT.
'MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind. Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, Which was so fully endorsed in the Advocate which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs.S.A.ALLEN'S
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like colo and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and vet not a dye-Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this U. S. journal.
In these times when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it pretends to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. as an asistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair'.
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S World's HAIR RESTORER A Preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. Allen's WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. WHY is this? simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ‘Worlds Hair Restorer’.
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD HAIR RESTORER is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated
Rahway register.
Mrs. S.A.ALLEN WORLD HAIR RESTORER.
The most successful remedy of the day. We Know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable
Weekly visitor, Franklin N.Y
From individual cases that have come under our own observation we are satisfied that Mrs. S.A.ALLEN WORLD HAIR RESTORER performs all that it promises, and that instead(as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform we therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.
ST. Louis Ledger.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER-AS we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair and at length determined to obtain Mrs. ALLEN'S RESTORER. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed she assured us that she had as luxurious even and beautiful head of hair as when she was but sixteen years old. her statement was confirmed by other members of the family while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S Hair Restorer.
Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. It has been thoroughly tested and found to be all its inventor claims for it. and to deny its excellence would to be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons. Rahway advocate and register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers. however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances upon the public as genuine.
Brooklyn Morning journal,
This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions,' Mercury, Philadelphia.
We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct. Boston Olive Branch
Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence’. Norfolk Argus.
Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be’. Cleve, Leader.
We might well this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N.Y
Where address all letters and inquires.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, MRS.S.A.ALLEN, Written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this paper for information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.

