THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT-
231 WASHINGRON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, be are not responsible for any debts of, the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUIKCY, EDWIND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countryman are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers,
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 9. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1725.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
GARRISON AND PHILLIPS ON LINCOLN.
In another place we publish a telegraphic sketch of a discussion between Wendell Phillips and William Lloyd Garrison at Boston, on the merits of Lincoln and his Administration. It is deemed a sufficiently important matter, now to telegraph all over the country the sayings and doings of these chronic fanatics and sworn enemies of the Union, though they and their treasonable opinions were held, four years ago, in silent abhorrence or contempt by the very men who now strive to be foremost in the race to do them reverence.
This discussion between these two bald-headed veteran disunionists, concerning Lincoln and the next Presidency, is something of a curiosity, and is worth nothing as one of the characteristic developments of the day. It seems they disagree, at least.
Phillips, breathing forth the true spirit of abolition despotism, after accusing Lincoln of a tendency to too slow growth, in spite of the watering he has given him, proceeds to declare that either he (Lincoln) must be "CRUSHED INTO SUBMISSION" to all of his (Phillips's) views, "or we must have a different leader for the next four years." What abolition disunion dogma there still is that Lincoln has not yet subscribed to, it would be hard to tell--unless, possibly, it may be Phillips's declaration at Framingham, last 11th of July, that the "one step further" now to be taken was "the amalgamation of whites with negroes," which, he assured his bearers, was the providential means for the improvement of the white race and the civilization of the world. Even this doctrine, too, we suppose the President will also accept, if he finds it energetically urged into him by the usual radical "Pressure" of which he once made public complaint.
Phillips proceeds to hold out the encouraging assurance that if all of his views are adopted in the conduct of the war, then, if we are lucky enough in addition to get Chase for President, Ben Butler in the War Office, Fremont at the head of all our armies, and every public journal made "decent at command," (that is, held by the throat!) we may possibly end the war in two years--but even that he thinks very doubtful! (In this same speech, by the way, he had ridiculed Chase as an ignorant and calamitous experimenter and blunderer.) He goes on to declare in favour of the disunion policy of Sumner & Co., now accepted and acted upon by the Administration, viz., that the Southern States "should be KEPT OUT" until they change their own domestic institutions to conform perfectly to his ideas! as perfectly as the reflection of a "face in a glass."
This is the actual policy of the Lincoln Administration to-day. The policy of the war is shaped to suit such men as Garrison and Phillips and Sumner, of whom the latter declared to the British Emancipation agent that his only fear was "that the war would end too soon"--before the Abolitionists could accomplish their purpose! That policy, let it never be forgotten, is to "KEEP OUT" the seceded States--to prevent re-union! as is distinctly and undeniably established by the Presidential "amnesty" Proclamation.
Old Mr. Covenant-with-Hell Garrison, in reply to his co-laborer, took up cudgels in defence of "Old Abe," and declared that the attack on him was unjust--that he (Lincoln) "HAD TRAVELLED AS FAST TOWARD THE NEGRO as popular sentiment would warrant him in doing." There can be no question that Garrison told the truth there.
What a happy family!
To what a condition before the gaze of the civilized world have they brought our once honored and respected country!--Harford Times.

O TEMPORA! O MORES!
Readers who note carefully the items of foreign news may have observed that George Thompson, the English Abolitionist, is about to favor this country again with the light of his countenance. We are a progressive people; and Mr. Thompson is shrewd enough to know it. Hence he trusts himself fearlessly now among those whom he (remembering his former visit) would not have dared insult with his presence before Sectionalism and Disunionism became popular in New England. For thirty years he has steadily labored to bring about a dissolution of the Union, and his declared motto has been: "The dissolution of the Union is to kept steadily in view." He was a co-worker and correspondent with Garrison, Phillips, and the Abolition leaders in this country, whose motto was that the Union and Constitution of WASHINGTON was "a covenant with death and a league with hell." We observe that the Boston folks advertise him for one of the lectures of the so-called "Fraternity (?) course" in that city, and he will no doubt be welcomed not only by such men as Phillips and his clan, (Whom the Hartford Press declares are good Union men.) but by many who have heretofore indignantly condemned the traitorous fanaticism of those malignant Sectionalists. "The three years of the war have been years of education to the President and the people," says the aforesaid Press-and such incidents as this of a New England welcome to an English Abolitionist, whose shameless boast is that he has labored for a quarter of a century to break up the American Union, is a significant illustration of the truth of the remark. The "education" has been rapid and immense. Even the Hartford Press has participated in its benefits, and proved an apt scholar; for when Lincoln was nominated, that now ultra abolition paper declared that a "legitimate audium attaches to Radical Republicanism." Now it has learned better, and embraces this "legitimately odious" thing!--Harford Times.

A SPECIMEN OF COPPERHEAD SEDITION.
We believe from the signs of the times from information that reaches us from various quarters, from mutterings and grumblings and growlings that come to us from far and near, that the forbearance of the people has nearly attained its utmost limit. Let the Administration take heed! The people, we repeat, do not want, and will not tolerate, a revolution of this Government. If the abolitionists have rendered, as we fear they have, "the Union as it was "impossible--if the seceding states cannot be recovered--the people mean that, as for the States that remain, the Constitution as it is "Shall survive, and that the Government under it shall be administered as our fathers intended. A little further persistence in its present course, and the Administration will encounter the people massed right in its way; not in insurrection--it is the Administration which is <illegible> not to make a revolution, but to prevent one from being consummated by faithless, foresworn agents, abusing, to that nefarious end, the trust confided to them. If, by virtue of article second of the "Amendments" of the Constitution, the Administration, when it encounters the people massed right in its way, should finds arms in their hands, so much the worse for the Administration--New York News.
<c02>
Selections.
GARRISON AND PHILLIPS.
The open and concealed enemies of Emancipation—the genuine Copperheads and the counterfeit Republicans—have made as much as they could out of the very moderate capital afforded them by the difference of opinion at the late meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society between Messrs. Garrison and Phillips. The first have openly rejoiced at it as the sign of schism in the Abolition Church, while the latter have affected to lament it while they have distorted and twisted it to serve their own purposes. Our readers have seen for themselves, in the brief and imperfect sketch we have been able to give of the debate, what ground there is for the one or the other treatment of the matter. A fuller report would have more fully confirmed them in the inferences they will draw from what we have laid before them, but it would not have altered it in the least. Those of them who are in the habit of attending Anti-Slavery meetings know that this discussion was only one of those which make those meetings the most interesting public assemblies held in the world. It was but one of those perfectly free expressions of opinion as to men and measures for which those meetings were instituted, and by which they have been characterized from the beginning. Only, the greater attention which is now attracted to them, and the interest felt everywhere in the subject-matter of this debate have drawn a wider notice than used to be bestowed upon the multitude of those that went before it. Enemies and friends may be assured that no schism exists in, or impends over, the Anti-Slavery body. Its members differ still, as they have ever differed, on all manner of details and particulars. They are of one mind still, as they have ever been, as to the central idea which holds them together —the essential, inherent wickedness of slavery as the Crime of Crimes, the toleration of which has brought every public evil the nation has ever endured, or still endures, upon it, and the utter abolition of which is alone sufficient for its restoration to peace, safety and permanent prosperity.
In so complicated a state of things as has been brought about by so simple a cause, it must needs be that its details, its prospects, and the characters and actions of the men prominently engaged in it, should be viewed with very different eyes by men of diverse temperaments. The sanguine see everything bright with the bloom of hope, and are sure that nothing but the happiest issue can proceed forth from the present confusion which slavery has occasioned. Painted upon the thickest cloud of war, they see the bow of promise, prophetic of sunshine and happiness at hand. The more staid and saturnine, on the other hand, look rather at the immediate dangers impending over us, and consider the possibilities of permanent damage to all the dearest interests of mankind which may result from the tempest, through the faults or the mistakes of those charged with them. Of these two temperaments, the two extraordinary men who form the text of this discourse are eminent examples. The temperament of Mr. Garrison, happily for mankind, is of the elastic, buoyant, sanguine type which sees the sun shining behind the blackest cloud. We say " happily for mankind," for without this constitution of nature, he never could have entered upon a work so hopeless as the abolition of slavery seemed thirty years ago, and without this he never could have endured, through all the trials of his career, unto this day, when he may reasonably hope to see of the desire of his heart, and be satisfied. Still, the fullness of his faith and the confidence of his hope do not blind him to the dangers and uncertainties which still beset the pathway of Emancipation, and which may impede and delay its career of victory, though they can never hinder its final fulfillment. His eminent natural good sense, his keen sagacity of judgment, his intuitive instinct as to all matters concerning his appointed work, save him from the indiscriminate optimism in the light of which some ardent spirits see all events and actions tending inevitably, without the possibility of disturbance, to the deliverance of the slave at once, and of the country. His fullness of faith and elasticity of hope do not shut his eyes to the crimes or the follies of men in power, and to the dangers attendant upon them. He does not await the manifestation of God with closed eyes and folded arms. He is diligent in seeking for and in doing his part of the work which God ever demands of man to prepare the way before Him.
The natural temperament of Mr. Phillips, on the other hand, leads him to look on the face of affairs with a sadder eye and a less assured heart. While his faith in the certain abolition of slavery, and that as a consequence of this rebellion, is as fixed and absolute as any man's can be, he is not convinced that it is to be so speedy and so complete as more eager spirits believe to be certain. A profound student of history and of human nature, a close and jealous observer of men and events, in the light of history and of human nature, be cannot discern the absolute certainty that this revolution will have the sudden and entire success of which every revolution in the affairs of men hitherto has failed. When the Revolution of 1640 has produced, after two centuries and a quarter, no better fruits than the existing oligarchic government in England, when the Revolution of 1789 is represented by the present Bonaparte in France, when the Revolution of 1776 demanded this war as its complement, in America, and when the Revolutions of 1848 were swallowed so swiftly by re-action, in Europe, he cannot see why this revolutionary movement should necessarily and inevitably be blessed above all that have gone before it. He knows that the cunning and selfishness of bad men have curtailed all other strivings after better things of their fair proportions, and obstructed and delayed, if not defeated them; he is greatly suspicious lest the same villainous game may not be played here. His office has, consequently, been, by words of warning and of criticism, to check the blind confidence of eager minds in the purposes of men and in the course of events. And we hold that the value of his services in this direction can hardly be over-estimated. Speaking by the bodily voice to vast multitudes. and addressing millions through the re-echoing of the press, he has reached the mind of the nation as no other man has done, and has done more than any other man to put it wisely on its guard, And to do this he has had to sacrifice the dearest personal gratification which a great orator can have, the enthusiastic applause of his audiences, within hearing of his voice and beyond it Had he accepted the government and its doings, and made himself the orator of the Administration, what tempests of plaudits what after claps of popularity, would not have attended and pursued him! Instead of which, he has been content with the approbation of his own mind when he uttered his words of caution and doubt in unwilling ears, scarcely charmed by his magic eloquence to hear them patiently. And Republicans called them Scolding! If the country indeed be saved from such a Compromise as has rounded every other revolutionary struggle, delaying if not hindering its tri-
<c03>
umpb, defacing if not destroying its glory, it will be to such scolding as this that it will be greatly due.
It is from differences of nature such as these that the peace of all nature comes. We have prophets enough of smooth things. One that dwells more on possible dangers than on certain successes, though less pleasing to the ear, may be more fruitful in the life, by awakening Caution—Suspicion, if you please:
"For oft, though Wisdom wake, Suspicion sleeps
At Wisdom's gate, while Goodness thinks no harm
Where no harm seems.”
The cheerful caution of Mr. Garrison and the less hopeful doubtings of Mr. Phillips work well together for good. They may differ as to the designs or the capacity of this or that public man, but they see eye to eye as to the great end to be gained, and they march shoulder to shoulder towards it. The Anti-Slavery platform was built for the utterance of differing opinions upon it. At no other meeting could the discussion in question have been had. Whatever other effect it may have had—and we are sure it can have had none that was not good—it had none in shaking the life-long confidence of the actors in it in each other, or of the Abolitionists and the Anti-Slavery public in them both. The men, and the classes of mind of which they are types, are essential to our happy issue out of these troublous times. And when that day comes, the slave, the country, and the world, will thank God for the unity in diversity which has helped to hasten it.—National A. S. Standard.

PHILLIPS AND GARRISON.
At the anti-slavery meetings in Boston, Wendell Phillips and William Lloyd Garrison happened to disagree in a debate on a resolution touching the attitude of the government toward the rebellion. Men of positive ideas disagree not seldom. When honest, thoughtful, and sagacious minds, looking at the same subject, cannot see it in one light, but entertain differences of opinion, and express them frankly and fearlessly, we see no occasion for ill-natured criticisms upon either party by outside censors. Must Henry Wilson and Charles Sumner, because they are both Republicans, and both from Massachusetts, always agree in the Senate, or else be gazetted as in a personal quarrel? Many newspapers, unfriendly to freedom and to its champions, are pointing with glee to what they call a rupture between Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips, as evidenced by the reports of the late meeting in Boston—reports which seem to have been, not accidentally, but purposely exaggerated by mischief-makers. Now, as we happen to know, there exists no rupture whatever between these gentlemen —nor any scar upon their long and inviolable friendship. The Anti-Slavery Society, above all others, has always kept an open platform, welcoming the most various discussion, not deprecating, but inviting, the expression of diverse opinions, hearing all sides before judging, and condemning nothing unheard. If Mr. Phillips—than whom no man is more solicitous for the welfare of the country—takes a more shadowy view than his distinguished friend, of the progress of that cause to which both have equally dedicated their lives, he has a better right to his opinion than some scurrilous newspapers have to defame him for it. Mr. Garrison, whose hopeful and prophetic mind sees always the brighter side of human nature, and who has a generous confidence in the good intentions of Abraham Lincoln, expresses more nearly our own idea of the present and prospective attitude of public affairs. To our own eyes, unless our vision is bewitched beyond our suspicion, the times are full of shining hopes. True, they are also full of dangers. The nation needs, for leadership, a wise head and a strong arm; but, whenever, hitherto, man has failed to supply these, God has mercifully lent us His own. Will the Providence that has so conspicuously guided us through the past three years of the war, desert us during the remaining period? We do not believe it! At the same time, we have great respect for those sober and thoughtful men who, having no eye for bright colors, see every cloud that overhangs the noon. We found our own place, for a time, reluctantly, but honestly, among the severest critics of the government, speaking, as some thought, unsparingly and with over-harshness. Yet we spoke only what we believed to be the needful truth at the time. But our hands do not now so often lift the double-edged sword of censure, for the occasion has passed when it could deal a profitable wound. The present policy of the government, though not without grievous faults, and though marked in its execution with a slow-and-easy tardiness which has been characteristic of the Administration from the beginning—and characteristic of all other administrations, here and elsewhere, except those few that have had the good fortune to be conducted by men of genius for government, as Napoleon or Cromwell or Jackson—the policy of the present Administration is now so generally right-minded and straight-forward that, with all its blunders and half-way measures, its general attitude on the question of human freedom is an honor to the country and a glory to the age. Abraham Lincoln, in our judgment, is a man whose feet are set as if he would go to Jerusalem—which is saying a great deal of any man in Washington! Mr. Chase and Mr. Stanton, the anti-slavery pillars of the government, are unwearied and indomitable in their daily furtherance of the good cause. While, therefore, we cannot share Mr. Phillips's apprehension of present dangers, we listen always with respect to a man who never speaks but to instruct, and who never condemns without a reason. Our Boston letter, on another page, gives what we believe is a fair statement of the points of difference between Mr. Phillips and his friend—a difference misinterpreted and magnified by the enemies of both, but which none of their well-wishers will be in danger of misunderstanding —N. Y. Independent.

MR. GARRISON AND MR. PHILLIPS.
The difference between Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips, at the Anti-Slavery meeting last week, was more apparent than real. Mr. Phillips proposed that the Convention should resolve that, in its opinion, "the Government in its haste is ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham, peace," &c. Mr. Garrison proposed to use the words, "is in danger of sacrificing," instead of" is ready to sacrifice." The difference is merely verbal. Mr. Garrison, in the course of the debate, expressed himself in unequivocal terms against the Amnesty proclamation, regarding it as "pregnant with evil consequences," and denying the right of the President to issue it. As there is no pretence that Mr. Lincoln does not fully understand the bearing of the measure, we do not see how Mr. Garrison, with his strong opinion of its dangerous character, can scruple to say the administration is " ready " to make the sacrifice As a verbal question, then the matter is not important Mr. Garrison is more of an optimist than Mr. Phillips; this is about all We might add, also, that he has less knowledge of politics. A practiced observer of the signs of the times would not cite the action of the Republican Legislatures of Kansas and Pennsylvania and Ma
<c04>
ryland, in favor of Mr. Lincoln, as any evidence whatever of his soundness on the anti-slavery question. The Legislature of Maryland is a very reluctant anti-slavery body; that of Pennsylvania is probably still worse; and that of Kansas is evidently at this time governed, in all its political action, by party and personal considerations, among which the senatorial controversy, Carney vs. Lane, is very prominent.
Mr. Garrison said that " Mr. Lincoln is a fair representative of the popular sentiment, and perhaps has advanced as fast and as far as the people were ready to endorse him." We think not; but even if Mr. Garrison is right, we see no reason why Mr. Phillips or any other anti-slavery man should refrain from severe criticism and pointed language. It is the old anti-slavery fashion, as we have learned it and practised it, to tell the naked truth to the people, concerning public measures, and so to bring the people up to a position from whence they should demand of President and Congress that they should do justice and righteousness. It has not been the anti-slavery fashion to say that any man in official station " should be judged by his possibilities, rather than by our wishes or by the highest moral standard," and we think that just now, Mr. Phillips better indicates the true policy for abolitionists than Mr. Garrison does.—Commonwealth.

FAREWELL TO GEO. THOMPSON, ESQ.
At the usual weekly meeting of the Executive Committee of the United Kingdom Alliance for the Suppression of the Liquor Traffic, held at the Board Room, 41 John Dalton street, Manchester, on Wednesday, Jan. 20, (George Thompson, Esq. being present,) after the transaction of the routine business.
The Rev. J. C. STREET rose, and said he was called upon to perform in his own behalf, and in behalf of this executive, a pleasing, and yet a somewhat painful duty. They had with them to-night their old, long-tried friend, George Thompson,—(cheers,)—whose name was well and honorably known throughout all broad England, for his firm, manly, and consistent advocacy of all great questions involving the welfare of the people, and the advancement of the community in general. (Hear, hear.) All present, the youngest and the oldest, had followed his career with very considerable interest; and he dared say there was not a member of that board who had not some strong personal recollection of influences wrought upon his mind and heart, by the nervous and brilliant eloquence of their friend. Speaking for himself, he remembered that one of the earliest impressions he ever received, as to the greatness of the work required to be done among the people of this country, was produced upon his mind by Mr. Thompson. He (Mr. T.) would know nothing of that; he had spoken to large audiences hundreds and thousands of times in all parts of the country, but he would not know what good seed he had scattered in the hearts of a number of people. He (Mr. Street,) as a boy, had listened to him; and some of the lessons he had learned thus as a boy, were with him now, and would, he hoped, be made use of by him in the sphere of usefulness to which God might call him. We at this board had no desire to express opinions with regard to certain great reforms which Mr. Thompson had taken part in; but the question uppermost with us—the question in which we took so profound an interest, and which had found within the past few years so able and eloquent an advocate in Mr. Thompson, so thoroughly excited our interest and warmth of feeling, that we could not let such a man who had worked among us, pass away without telling him how thankful we were that he had devoted his great abilities to this great work, and how we trusted that in the greater field of usefulness to which God was calling him, he would continue to bear the same consistent, powerful, and earnest testimony to the principles here propounded. Mr. Thompson, in other fields of labor, had done a great work; but we at this board thought that, in identifying himself with this great social and moral question, which seemed to us to lie at the basis of all other reforms in the community—and which, if heartily taken up by the people, would lift them to a higher state of being—Mr. Thompson had won an honor and a lusture for his name, greater even than those which had come to him from the other agitations to which be (Mr. Street) had alluded. As the years rolled by, and the work began to obtain its successes, those who had fought for it, spoken for it, worked for it, would be held in great honor, and be considered the pioneers of the greatest reformation ever seen. Therefore, on behalf of his colleagues, and on his own part, too, he would express to Mr. Thompson their feelings of very great regret that he was going away from us in the midst of our agitation here. We could not afford to lose earnest and powerful workers like Mr. Thompson; but we ought, also, to feel that, in the order of God's Providence, there were changes which must take place, and that He who sits above the heavens rules all things well. Therefore, we would not despond because Mr. Thompson was taken from us, because he was going to a greater part of the world than this, where the millions in future years would gather together, and great questions of social and moral interest would be worked out to fulfillment. There would be room enough there for the exercise of the largest genius and the most powerful eloquence to do good service for men and God. But the influence of the labors of Mr. Thompson would remain with us. We should remember how heartily he had taken up our cause, and what fervor he had thrown into its advocacy, and should ever be indebted to him for being identified with our great movement. Our loss would be the gain of the American temperance people, who had done so great a work before us, and were still showing us how to work. Mr. Thompson would carry with him the hearty love and sympathy, the strong manly affection, of many of those who labored here and that would be a safeguard to him in hours of peril in the New World. (Loud applause.) 
Mr. Street moved the following resolution:—
That the Executive Council of the United Kingdom Alliance for the prohibition of the Liquor Traffic hereby express their gratification in having the opportunity of testifying to George Thompson, Esq. prior to his departure to the United States, their high sense of his personal worth, and of the great value of his eloquent advocacy of the cause of prohibition as the right and duty of the people.
Whilst taking leave of Mr. Thompson, the Executive indulge the hope that he may long be spared to render his powerful aid to the cause of true social progress.
The Rev. JAMES CLARK said he should feel ashamed to say that he was not prepared to second the resolution which had been so ably and cordially moved by Mr. Street; and yet, in one sense, he did feel unprepared to say that he agreed with the terms of the resolution, or with those eloquent words with which Mr. Street had accompanied the resolution which he had moved; but he was unprepared to do justice to a resolution of such great im
<c05>
portance, and to express as he would desire the feelings he entertained towards their good friend, Mr. Thompson. Wishing to keep strictly within the limit of the subject before them, he would not enlarge upon Mr. Thompson's labors in connection with outer movements; but he would say this in regard to them, that he believed Mr. Thompson's work, however great and important, would have been very imperfect, and that its results, if carried to completion, would have been unsatisfactory both to himself and to those who had labored hard with him, if there had not been accompanying or quickly following the success of those movements, the particular agitation in which we had so deep an interest. He believed that it was needful to maintain the stability of the progress already made, that the people of this country should be delivered from that dreadful curse and tyranny under which they had so long suffered, produced by the habit of taking intoxicating liquors; and as the accomplishment of this important work almost depended, as we believed, on the success of the Permissive Bill movement, he felt sure that Mr. Thompson would hereafter look back with great pleasure and gratification to the time when he identified himself with the movement—to the period when he left it as a sweet remembrance amongst the people from whom he was separated, that he had given his hearty co-operation to this movement. There could be nothing more satisfactory to one who had labored for the good of his country and his fellow-men, than to feel that his labors had been productive of that which he bad designed; that he had not been laboring for the success of mere opinion, but for that which would bring blessings, material, moral, and spiritual, to those whose interests he had at heart; and, whatever might be said of other movements, we knew from experience already gained that, in proportion as we could wean the people from the use of intoxicating drinks, the immediate results were of the most satisfactory and highly gratifying nature. People were elevated from poverty to comparative affluence; from sin to a religious life; from indifference to everything that would promote their highest interests, to activity and earnestness in connection with those important objects; and thus, he thought, there was much to cheer us in our labors, to make us believe that the great results which we hoped for would be real and tangible. He hoped our friend would carry with him across the Atlantic the assurance that he left behind him many friends who deeply and fully appreciated the important work he had been able to do on behalf of this association. We had been accustomed to observe his labors and their effects; and we believe that hereafter, in addition to the present advantage derived from his services, there would accrue to us very much benefit in furtherance of the work. It would be a pleasant remembrance to Mr. Thompson hereafter, that he had given some of his valuable time, eloquence, and abilities, to this movement; and he (Mr. Clark) trusted that although he might not labor amongst us longer, his heart would be warm in the cause, and that in America, as here, he would speak with power and effect in behalf of the temperance movement (Applause.)
The resolution having been put to the vote by Mr. JAMES HARVEY, the chairman, was carried unanimously and with applause.
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON was received with new cheers as he rose to reply. He thanked the committee for the token of respect offered him to-night for the exertion of what he conceived to be his very humble abilities; and would be glad to avail himself of the resolution which had been passed, as a sort of introduction for saying a word, when the opportunity should occur, in America—on the mechanism, prospects, hindrances, embarrassments, and encouragements of the movement in this country. From previous knowledge and experience, he believed that he should be thrown very much amongst the friends of temperance in America; for on two occasions on which he had been there, they had been his best friend. (Hear, hear.) He thought he might say that those who were most earnest in advocacy of the views he was known to hold upon a certain American question—who rendered him the most abundant hospitality, and succored him in seasons of distress and peril, placing themselves between him and danger, on many occasions—were the friends of temperance in that country. (Hear, bear.) He expected to meet on the wharf at Boston, on landing, one who, though devoted throughout his life to another great question, was, when a very young man, at first an editor of the first temperance newspaper in the United States of America-a fact, he believed, not generally known—and he had been a most consistent and earnest supporter of the temperance cause ever since. He (Mr. Thompson) did not know that he had ever been connected with any great public movement in which the friends of temperance had not lent a most helping band; and if he were to travel over the world to introduce any great question associated with the elevation of mankind, he should, on arriving at any neighborhood, inquire for the friends of temperance there, and should calculate more confidently on their sympathy and co-operation than that of any other class; for the friends of temperance were men with very lively sympathies with their fellow-creatures. He had never had any very serious doubts with regard to the propriety and constitutionality (as the Americans called it) of this question. He had been perplexed, as he dared say most were perplexed, when the question was first brought before them, but he was not long in overcoming that difficulty; and now he was fully persuaded that we had a right to employ the machinery of Parliament in accomplishing the object which we had in view. (Applause.) If it was worth anything, and could be made to work at all, it could not be put in motion for the achievement of a greater object than that which we aimed to accomplish—an object so great that he had never been able to grasp it in all its magnitude. The more it was dwelt upon, the more it grew in overwhelming importance; and though at present perhaps we could hope for little real success in the shape of legislation, yet he never had a doubt as to the ultimate issue of this great conflict He looked across the water, and saw that in the course of three years, which seemed scarcely a day in the life-time of nations, a nation had been born again on another question; and not because men had been individually converted to certain principles, least of all to the highest principles upon which all objects of benevolence and philanthropy should proceed, but because they had been converted, as men by hundreds of thousands would be converted on our question, by the stern logic of events. And we must hasten events. The work before us was exceedingly simple:—to keep laboring on, having confidence in our own principles, always assured that we were right, always feeling as if the cause must win and should win, and by that confidence (not an unfounded one by any means, for no one who considered our principles could doubt their impregnability,) let our movement be prosecuted in that spirit, and the time would come when those who were not converted by other processes, would be converted by the logic of events.
<c06>
And no men were sooner converted by that description of logic, than those men to whom we should look for the passing, some of these days, of the permissive Bill.(Hear, hear.) He had no doubt he should find on the other side of the water, that prohibitive legislation, where adopted, had not failed. There might, no doubt, be those who would evade it, just as there were those in our own country who showed the extent to which people would go in fraud and chicanery. (Hear, hear.)
We need not go far from home to find men, forgetting their loyalty, and all that was due to the policy of their government, resort to the meanest and most odious stratagems for the purpose of evading what should be law. He hoped, when he should be over yonder, and when he should feel himself more competent than now to take a general view of the temperance movement in America, to have some communication with this committee, if such would be acceptable. (Loud and warm cheers.) In the meantime, as far as able, he would be the faithful exponent of our principles, he would speak of us as we were, and he thought he was warranted, by the present state of the movement to speak encouragingly. (Cheers.) In conclusion, Mr. Thompson again expressed his gratitude for the resolution which had been passed, and spoke further of the many intimate friendships which he had formed in this country, through prosecuting his various work; and he declared that he should ever remember with affection and esteem those members of the United Kingdom Alliance whom he had known.(Applause.)
[As a matter of news, we may add here, that on Thursday evening, a soiree of about two hundred and thirty ladies and gentlemen,(under the suspices of the Union and Emancipation Society,) was held in the Town Hall, King street, to present a farewell address to Mr. Thompson, George Wilson, Esq., presided. The address was read by Mr. T.H. Barker, and afterwards moved by Ernest Jones, Esq., seconded by Councilor Charles Thompson, and supported by the Rev. J.C. Street, Dr. Pankhurst, Dr. John Watts, and several other gentlemen. A deputation also presented an address from the Union and Emancipation Society of Ashton. The proceedings were of a very animated and interesting character, and Mr. Thompson responded to the addresses in most eloquent and touching terms. On Friday, about forty ladies and gentlemen partook of a farewell breakfast with Mr. Thompson, at the Adelphi Hotel, Liverpool, when most interesting addresses were delivered. On Saturday morning, Mr. Thompson embarked on board the Arabia, one of the fine Cunard steamers, from Liverpool to Boston. In a letter from Mr. Thompson to Mr. T. H. Barker, written from on board the Arabia, approaching Queenstown, Sunday morning, January 24, he says: "Let me express my deep gratitude for the kindness you have shown me, the interest you have taken in my welfare, and the trouble to which you have put yourself on my account. Never will these proofs of your friendship be forgotten. I will try to prove that I am grateful. I will endeavor to act worthy of your esteem. Wherever I may wander, until I set my face again towards England, I shall drag a lengthening chain, every link of which will bind me more closely to the friends and country I leave behind."]-Manchester Alliance News,Jan.30.

MR. GEORGE THOMPSON.
The circumstances under which Mr. George Thompson now appears before the American public are so widely different from those of his first visit to this country, that the change in his reception hardly occasions even a momentary surprise. The mass of our citizens, we apprehend, have seen little occasion to change the view which they then took of the position form which he entered into the discussion of our affairs; but there should be few so blind as not to see that Mr. Thompson now comes before us with a well-earned claim to a friendly welcome and to respectful attention. The services which he has rendered to our cause, in the last three years, are such as we cannot justly neglect to recognize, in a sour remembrance of the more distant past.
It is never to be forgotten, in listening to such a man as Mr. Thompson, that, whatever may be our differences among ourselves, it is the anti-slavery aspect of our cause which has proved its salvation in England. Neither the trading nor the ruling classes of Great Britain have had the discernment to see the real merits of the claim of authority maintained by the United States, nor the wisdom to comprehend the importance of our success for mankind in general, nor the magnanimity to postpone short-sighted jealousies and narrow supposed interests to the great questions here at issue. They do not scruple even now to rejoice over the alleged failure of the republican experiment, or to avow their belief in the advantages to them of the dissolution of this Union. So far as they are concerned, the question as to recognizing the independence of the rebels, of conniving at the assistance given them in English ports and by English merchants and builders, and even of active intervention, is a matter of the coldest calculation of selfish interests,-so far as it is not a matter of petty political animosity.
In this state of feeling, it is the English liberals of the anti-slavery school who have fought our battle. That class of men present few of those external attractions which rivet attention to their more aristocratic contemporaries, and have in time past been too conspicuous marks for familiar satire, to have had at the outset any large place in the attention of our people. But they have in this controversy attained that breadth of view to which their opponents have been unequal. From the day when Mill warned his countrymen that worse evils might befall a nation than civil war, to the last speech in which john Bright recalled the thoughts of his constituency to the moral aspects of the war, they have steadily kept it before the British people that any temporary difficulty in tolerable if this war is to be the end of slavery. They have thoroughly impregnated with this view of the case those millions of the lower and laboring clames whose menacing voice the English statesman is fain to heed, even when he affects not to hear it. And whatever else may be thought of the Emancipation proclamation, nobody, we think, will be hardy enough to deny that it supplied this class of our advocates, at a most critical moment, with a powerful argument, which they have plied effectually in our behalf. Reviewing the events where we now stand, it can be seen that from that day the change in our favor has been steady and radical. It has permitted the most numerous body of the British people, and it has influenced the action of their government more and more in our behalf, as the great and perilous questions affecting its neutrality have come up. At every step the anti-slavery liberals have been our friends; they have been the vigilant censors of all official weakness or hesitation; their voices have been unsparing when they suspected sympathy or connivance with the masses has been the great weapon with which our battle has been fought on that soil.
In this great work of bringing the controlling sen-
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustle armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
timent of England to the right side, George Thompson has been a leader. Indeed it is said, we know not with how much truth, that it is to his influence that the strong convictions of Mr. Bright are due. At all events he has labored steadily and zealously in our behalf. He has spoken in season and out of season, and with eloquence of no ordinary brilliancy, to open the eyes of his countrymen to the obligations which humanity and right lay upon them in this contest. His zeal may not always have been tempered by discretion, but in recent controversies it has been effectual; and coming to us with such a record, it is our part to extend to him a generous welcome.— Boston Daily Advertiser.

LETTERS FROM ENGLAND. NO. III. 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF GEO. THOMPSON.
BY WILLIAM FARMER, ESQ.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The first interest which was excited in his breast, in the cause of the abolition of American slavery, arose from a conversation he had had with Captain Charles Stuart, who, in 1832, returned to this country, after visiting Canada and the United States. That gentleman, as you are well aware, became acquainted and formed a lasting friendship with William Lloyd Garrison, who, perhaps, will permit me, for convenience sake, although writing to himself, to use a pronoun which would seem to apply to another person. Prior to this time, Mr. Thompson’s mind—in common with those of Mr. James Cropper, of Liverpool, Mr. Thomas Fowell Buxton, Mr. Zachary Macaulay,’(father of the late Lord Macaulay,) Daniel O'Connell, and other men of influence—had been favorably impressed by the sophistries of Mr. Elliott Cresson, agent of the Colonization Society, in behalf of the plausible but nefarious scheme of that body for the deportation of the colored race in America. Captain Stuart lent Mr. Thompson a copy of “The Liberator” newspaper, a perusal of which, together with conversation with the gallant traveler, dissipated the delusion which Cresson had practised upon Mr. Thompson, concerning the design of the intriguing organization which he represented.
Having been made acquainted with the history of Mr. Garrison, and the singularly adverse circumstances under which he had established his anti-slavery journal. Mr. Thompson became extremely anxious to promote, to the utmost of his powers, the views of so noble a young man, who had risked fame, fortune, and even life, for the cause of the slave; for just about that time, the legislature of Georgia had offered a reward of five thousand dollars for the head of Mr. Garrison—an enactment which, up to this moment, stands unrepealed upon the journals of the State legislature; a fact which Southern sympathizers, who are foolish enough to believe, or, probably, what is more likely, mendacious enough to assert that rebel independence is the readiest means of abolishing slavery, will do well to ponder over, and reconcile with their copperhead theory. Soon afterwards, this favorable feeling of Mr. Thompson towards Mr. Garrison was converted into a firm and enduring friendship by a casual interview which occurred under the following circustances:-In the month of May. 1833, a great meeting of Anti-Slavery delegates was held in London, for the purpose of promoting the passage of the bill for the abolition of Colonial slavery, which had just been introduced into the House of Commons by the Hon. Mr. Stanley, then the Whig Colonial Secretary, but now the Earl of Derby, leader of Her Majesty's Conservative opposition. The delegates, whose sessions continued dedie in diem, were accustomed to assemble at breakfast at 8 o’clock A. M., at the King's Arms Hotel, King street, Cheapside, immediately adjoining the Guildhall of the City of London. After breakfast, a conversation, or discussion, as the case might be, was held until 11 o'clock, when the meeting adjourned to a room in Aldermanbury-a street close by, running parallel with Guildhall-in a house which had been rendered notorious or infamous as having once been the residence of Judge Jeffreys; the associations of which had been somewhat purified by its having become the offices of the London Anti-Slavery Society. One morning, the discussion turned upon the clauses of the Emancipation Bill then before Parliament, which provided, amongst other measures, from a twelve years' apprenticeship of the slaves, and the payment of twenty millions sterling as compensation to their master; which money, however, was to be deemed to be of the nature of real estate, in order to be made available for the prior demands of the mortgagees upon the plantations, and who had a lien upon the slaves as well as the land. Mr. Buxton, in his anxiety to see the prolonged and fiercely controverted question settled, and to save the colonies from an insurrection, of which he stood in great dread, earnestly advised that no strenuous opposition should be made to the Government measure, albeit it fell far short of the requirements of justice. On the other hand, Mr. Thompson denounced, as he had done from the first promulgation of their proposition, the principles both of compensation and apprenticeship. He contended that it was the incumbent duty of every abolitionist who had, for the previous three years, been earnestly demanding immediate and unconditional emancipation for the slave, earnestly to protest against these odious features of the bill. Feeling strongly the sacrifice of principle involved in the proposed compromise, Mr. Thompson expressed himself with great warmth. Mr. Joseph John Gurney, a brother-in-law of Mr. Buxton, gently rebuked the speaker for remarks which were supposed to reflect severely upon their common friend. Laying his hand gently upon Mr. Thompson's shoulder, Mr. Gurney said, “You have been very severe upon my brother Buxton, but you know that he means well.” The incident is of no consequence, except as serving to show how regardless Mr. Thompson was of friend or foe when he believed an important principle to be at stake. At the conclusion of the proceedings, a gentleman introduced himself to Mr. Thompson, and stated that the course advocated by him was the only one which be, the stranger, could have supported. This was his first introduction to William Lloyd Garrison, and it is needless to add that, from that moment, they were strangers no longer. Mr. Garrison had been deputed by the New England Anti-Slavery Society to visit this country, for the special purpose of exposing the true character of the American Colonization Society, and of preventing the sympathies of British Abolitionists being given to its specious but most mischievous designs. Mr. Garrison having also fully explained the nature of the operations of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and the malignant persecution, amounting almost to martyrdom, which its friends had to endure from the leaders both of Church and State, Mr. Thompson, with all the earnestness of his nature, resolved to join the proscribed and hunted band of American Abolitionists, and to get up a series of meetings, at which their case might be laid before the British public. The first of these gatherings, which was presided over by Mr. James Cropper, the distinguished merchant-philanthropist of Liverpool, was held at Devonshire Square Chapel, Bishopagate street, belonging to an old Baptist congregation, under the pastorate of the Rev. Dr. Thomas Price, Editor of the Eclectic Review. Mr. Thompson then took occasion to recant the favorable opinion of the Colonization Society into the expression of which he had been entrapped by the guile of Cresson, and publicly to avow his adhesion to the society of which Mr. Garririson was then the representative in this land. A second meeting was held at Exeter Hall, also presided over by Mr. Cropper, and which, in addition to Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson, was addressed by Daniel O’Connell, in one of his most memorable speeches, which has since been most extensively circulated in England and America, and in which he uttered the most scathing denunciation of American slavery, perhaps, ever delivered-a denunciation which his Roman Catholic brethren, both in England and Ireland, would have done well to have perused before they gave, as they have done exclusively, their sympathies to the Southern slaveocracy. Numerous meetings of a similar description were held throughout the kingdom, addressed by Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson, and which it is believed had the double effect of neutralizing, to a large extent, the insidious designs of the Colonizationists, and of clearing away the aspersions which had been cast upon the American Abolitionists, whose labors were then in their infancy.
During their journeying, Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson paid a visit to the venerable WILBERFORCE, shortly before his death. The veteran abolitionist was then residing at Bath, old and somewhat infirm, although it did not then appear that his earthly frame was so nearly worn out as it subsequently turned out to be. Without pressing his over peculiar views upon Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Garrison simply laid before him the authorized publications of the Colonization Society, from which be might draw his
<c02>
own conclusions as to the true character of that body. 
The event was mourned as a national <illegible>. His remains were interred in Westminster Abbey, by the side of those of Granville Sharpe, and in the immediate vicinity of Canning, Pitt, Charles James Fox, princes of the blood, peers of the realm, representatives of the people, and the elite of the professors of literature, art and science. Around the grave of the champion of the negro, of the man who had been mainly instrumental in the achievement of his emancipation, and in the abolition of the slave trade, were clustered a large number of the members of both houses of Parliament. Little did the dying patriarch of emancipation anticipate that, thirty years after his death, a majority of the members of the British senate, which had voted <illegible> 20,000,000 for the emancipation of our own colonial slaves, should virtually oppose the emancipation of four millions in the Southern States of America, and give their sympathies and raise their voices in favor of rebels seeking to found a republic upon the perpetuation and indefinite extension of slavery, and the revival of the slave trade. With a similar view to that of their visit to Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson waited upon the venerable THOMAS CLARKSON, at Play ford Hall, Norfolk. That gentleman had so far been imposed upon by Elliott Cresson as to consent to become a patron of the Colonization Society. The ultimate result of the interview was to induce Mr. Clarkson to withdraw his support from it, and to give his countenance to the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
We now come to the most important crisis in the history of Mr. Thompson—the turning point of the whole of the remainder of his life. The emancipation bill, with its grievous defects in principle, had at length been conducted amidst, all its difficulties and perils, through the legislature. The decree had gone forth that, nominally at least, no slave should exist in the British dominions on the ensuing 1st of August, 1834. No more glorious achievement had ever been effected by British philanthropy; perhaps its only parallel was to be found in the act for the abolition of the slave trade, passed in 1807. Mr. Thompson's anti-slavery work in this hemisphere was then, to all appearance, ended, He had nothing before him, apparently, but the acceptance of the brilliant offer made to him by his distinguished and influential friends. Wealth, forensic distinction and high judicial honors were sure to have been	 the result of his professional career, if it pleased Providence to spare his life for the average term of mortality. What man would have hesitated gladly to seize such tempting prizes? Mr. Thompson, however, did not do so; and why? Mr. Garrison had laid before him the details of the question of American slavery; and its horrors deeply impressed his mind. Mr. Garrison, on the other hand, was greatly impressed with the power of Mr. Thompson's oratory, the effects of which he had abundant opportunity of witnessing in various parts of the kingdom. Mr. Garrison, moreover, knew that the American abolitionists, at that time, were somewhat deficient in that powerful element, the living voice. It was but natural, therefore, that he should earnestly beseech Mr. Thompson to join the Anti-Slavery cause on the other side of the Atlantic. Those who have sacrificed every temporal interest in the prosecution of a righteous cause, deem it nothing strange to ask others who are like-minded with themselves to do the same thing. Most singular was the position in which Mr. Thompson was placed at this critical period. On the one hand were professional fame and fortune; and on the other, association with the poor, despised, hunted and persecuted abolitionists of America. In the one scale was a life of comfort and honor; in the other, the redemption of two millions and a half of slaves. Which side should kick the beam? Surely, it was pardonable in a young man thus situated, to pause before he gave up such brilliant prospects as had been held out to him, and, as many thought, to throw himself recklessly upon chance for the very bread upon which himself and family were to feed. The result of the rejection of the offer of his friends, he might reasonably presume, would be the loss of their friendship; what was he to gain in exchange? The friendship of men apparently doomed to a heritage of poverty, suffering, and social proscription. The mental struggle, however, was but of short duration: humanity triumphed, and self was sacrificed. Looking at the position of the Anti-Slavery cause in America at that period, and the trial which its advocates were then certain to undergo, it is difficult to find a parallel instance of self-abnegation to that of Mr. Thompson. The act of the Moravian missionaries, who voluntarily immured themselves for life in a city of lepers, for the sake of preaching the gospel and ministering to its loathsome inhabitants, appears to my mind the ne plus ultra of moral heroism; but it was hardly superior to the sacrifices now made by Mr. Thompson. This incident of his life ought not only to silence, but to put to shame the mean slanderers who have imputed to him the incentive of mercenary motives. The “prudent,” in the world's acceptation of the word, censured what they called his rashness; but conscience approved of his inflexible adherence to principle. Mr. Thompson gave his word to Mr. Garrison that, Providence permitting, he would, as soon as possible after the Abolition Act came into operation, follow him to the United States, and fill up the interval by endeavors in this country to enlist the public mind in support of the Anti-Slavery Society. That pledge was afterwards redeemed. A numerous and influential organization was formed, under the title of “The Committee for the Universal Abolition of Slavery and the Slave Trade,” and which comprised, amongst others, James Cropper, the late Joseph Sturge, of Birmingham, the Reverends Dr. Wardlaw, of Glasgow, John Angell James, of Birmingham, Dr. Thomas Price, of London, F. A. Cox, D. D., L. L. D., of Hackney, Librarian of the London University, and other distinguished philanthropists. Mr. Thompson laid before the members of the Emancipation Societies of Edinburgh and Glasgow the resolution he had come to to visit America, and he received from them a liberal guarantee to bear his expenses for a three years' residence there, or longer if, in his judgment, his stay in that country would promote the object he had in view. Many of the friends who then backed him are still living, amongst others Mr. William Smeal, of Glasgow; the Rev. William Lindsay Alexander, D. D., the Hon. Mr. David Erskine, Mr. John Wigham, Jr., and Mrs. Wigham, of Edinburgh. Others have departed from this world, amongst whom may be mentioned the distinguished divines, Drs. Wardlaw and Heugh. Another fund was raised in England, chiefly through the instrumentality of the late Joseph Sturge, to be devoted to Mr. Thompson's outfit, and to the maintenance of his family during his absence. So far, his faith in a righteous course of action had been rewarded; he had certainly not gained a pecuniary equivalent to his sacrifice for the sake of the slave, having given up wealth and legal renown, but he had realized the promise made to the righteous man, that his bread should be given and his water should be sure. After the advent of the operation of the Emancipation Act was celebrated by Mr. Thompson, at Edinburgh, at a festival at which Lord Moncrieff, one of the most distinguished Scottish Judges presided, a farewell entertainment was given to Mr. Thompson on the evening of the same day at Glasgow. He sailed with his family about the middle of August, and arrived at New York on the 23d of September, 1834. It would be a work of supererogation to attempt to narrate to you or your countrymen the incidents of that visit; they are now events in your national history. Such a detail has been rendered the more unnecessary, in consequence of the narration which has recently been given at the Philadelphia Convention, of the labors and perils of Mr. Thompson during the memorable thirteen months of his then sojourn in the United States. It may suffice to state summarily, that, when it was known who he was, himself and family were ejected from the hotel where they resided; that he had to retreat from New York to the State of New Jersey, to escape the fury of a New York mob, which, although composed of what are conventionally called “gentlemen of property and standing,” were on a level in spirit and ruffianism with the cowardly Democratic scoundrels, composed mainly of the scum of the Emerald Isle, who recently murdered the unoffending negroes in the same city. It will be edifying to those who believe in the Anti-Slavery tendencies of the South to know that, at that period, subscriptions were opened in Savannah and Charleston to offer a tempting premium to any party who could effect the abduction of Mr. Thompson, and his deportation South. We have a right to ask of these intelligent and veracious rebel sympathizers, proofs of the regeneration which has since been effected in those who were at that time incarnate fiends. On the other band, they will find abundant evidences of the revolution of public feeling in the North since that period. It would be impossible now in the city of Boston to get together
<c03>
a pro-slavery mob of “gentlemen of property and standing,” like that which, in October, 1835, erected a gallows before the door of Mr. Thompson, and sought to take his life. When he visits you again, as he will do in a few days, no placards will be scattered throughout your city, offering a reward of two hundred dollars to the man who shall succeed in hauling him to the tar-kettle. Himself and family might now reside peaceably in Salem, Massachusetts, without any threat of having his abode fired over his head. When he again leaves your shores, he need not do so stealthily and in disguise, to save him from the fate of Lovejoy and Torrey, which then seemed impending over him. Then he had to be conveyed covertly in a carriage, whilst the pro-slavery Christians of Boston were doing what they impiously called worshipping their God in their churches, to the wharf, and be smuggled on board just as the vessel unloosed her moorings, and be taken for safety to St. Andrews, New Brunswick, in a brig consigned to the late Henry G. Chapman, the husband of that noble lady, Maria Weston Chapman, one of the most illustrious of the women who, for thirty years, have upheld your hands in your trying career. He will not now need to fly from the back of any house as the mob approaches it for the purpose of taking his life in front. No more will William Lloyd Garrison be dragged through the streets of Bosten with a halter, and require to be lodged in prison to save him from the murderous rage of his fellow-citizens. No, no; those who were then demoniacally possessed, are now sitting clothed in their right minds.

The liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26,1864.
THE RECEPTION.
Since the Music Hall was erected, no such gathering has ever crowded its spacious dimensions, on the score of numbers, intelligence, and patriotic and liberty-loving enthusiasm, as was witnessed on Tuesday evening last, at the reception of GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., by the citizens of this Commonwealth. We believe every State in New England had its representatives on the occasion. Governor Andrew presided in a manner worthy of his high reputation, and of the State of which he is the honored and beloved Chief Magistrate. His remarks were such as to elicit reiterated applause; and nothing could be more handsome and generous than the eulogy which he bestowed upon Mr. Thompson for his valuable and long-continued services in the cause of the oppressed, and his untiring labors, since the rebellion broke out, to consolidate the public sentiment of England in support of the American Government. Mr. Thompson was received with prolonged cheering, the ladies waving their handkerchiefs, and the whole assembly expressing their esteem, admiration and gladness in a manner quite electric. His speech was eloquent and lucid, and warmly applauded. The impromptu remarks of Wendell Phillips and Judge Russell (both being called out by the audience) were very felicitous, and the concluding words of Gov. Andrew full of noble feeling and generous sentiment. Boston in 1864 atones for her persecution in 1834-5, and Massachusetts has now removed from her historic record the dark stains of a pro-slavery dispensation.
In our next number, we shall publish a full report of the proceedings, as made by that accomplished phonographer, J. M. W. Yerrinton, Esq. Extra copies will be for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office. Send in your orders.
On Monday evening next, we learn, a public reception will be given to Mr. Thompson at the Cooper Institute, New York; and, probably, a similar mark of respect will be paid to him by a public meeting in Henry Ward Beecher's church, Brooklyn, during the week. Should the arrangements be seasonably made, Mr. Thompson will address the citizens of Philadelphia the week after. In that case, it is his purpose to proceed to Washington, where he has been invited to address the National Loyal Association of that city.
In connection with this ovation, we would acknowledge the receipt of the brief but comprehensive and gratifying Annual Report of the London Emancipation Society for 1863-4, giving an account of the indefatigable and successful efforts which have been made by that and other kindred associations in England to confound the machinations of the Confederate emissaries and sympathizers in that kingdom, and concluding as follows:—
“One of our last acts has been to hold a farewell soiree to our eloquent and devoted colleague, Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON. He will, probably, this very day land for the third time on the shores of the United States, on this occasion to be received with the welcome which is due to one who has advocated with unswerving constancy, and often with matchless eloquence, the cause of the negro for thirty-five years. He is a new link binding us to our American brethren, especially our brethren of the old and true anti-slavery party. We rejoice in the great Republican party; we revere President Lincoln and all who sustain him in his emancipation policy; our faith is great in the American people, from the Atlantic sea-board to the Pacific shore; but we nevertheless feel a still keener sympathy and a loftier admiration for the pioneers of emancipation,—the men and women who will welcome our absent friend as their faithful coadjutor in the troublous and never to be forgotten times of thirty years ago.”

MISREPRESENTATIONS OF OUR VIEWS.
At the recent annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in this city, a resolution was presented by our friend Wendell Phillips, in relation to the animus of the Government in its dealings with Rebeldom, to which we offered an amendment, and expressed our dissent from some of the views taken by Mr. Phillips. The telegraphic account of the discussion, sent in every direction, was anything but a fair statement of it. We were made to say that we had greatly diminished our faith in Fremont, because he had not publicly favored the proclamation of amnesty! We said the proclamation of emancipation of January 1, 1863, which we heartily approve, and not that of the amnesty, to which we are as decidedly opposed.
The exact language we used in regard to Gen. Fremont was, that our “interest in him had been lessened,” because he had given no expression of satisfaction at the two great measures of the Government for the suppression of the rebellion, namely, the enlistment of the blacks, and the liberation of all the slaves in the revolted States. Not that we suppose he is hostile to either of those measures; but we are sure that his public approval of them by his pen or voice would have been potent to their more vigorous prosecution; and the Government has needed every approving word in that direction, especially from those who possess a commanding influence.
Mr. Phillips has less faith in the good intentions of President Lincoln than we have, and believes he is “ready to sacrifice the honor and interest of the North to effect a sham peace.” We honor him for the manly avowal of his conviction; and none the less so because it places him in the minority, and subjects him to severe popular criticism. The honesty of his conviction is not to be impeached, while its soundness may be questioned without any personal feeling. We are not willing to accept of any compliment at his expense. In matters of opinion and comparison of views, we sometimes differ from him; but in an uncompromising adherence to principle, we have always seen eye to eye. He must be true to himself—and he will be, at whatever cost. Those who repose more confidence in President Lincoln than he does, find no justification for abusing him. The services he has rendered the cause of freedom, and indeed whatever is worthy of preservation in our country, for more than a quarter of a century, at great pecuniary cost through his munificent disposition and self-sacrificing spirit, and to the utter abandonment of all hope of political advancement, should ever shield him from bitter and disparaging criticism. However jealous he may be of the Government, it is not for a factious purpose, but solely to avert what be regards as impending danger to the cause of impartial liberty.

<c04>
PUBLIC RECEPTION OF GEO. THOMPS0N,
ESQ.
On the evening of Tuesday last, February <illegible>d, a great meeting was held in the Music Hall to welcome and honor GEORGE THOMPSON, the English friend and advocate of America. It plainly appears both by the names (published in last week's liberator) of the gentlemen who called this meeting, and by those of the speakers who took part in the proceedings, that this was no partisan celebration. It was the action of men, who, having watched the course of Mr. Thompson in England, and having seen the material assistance given by his friendly assiduity, his intelligence, and his eloquence, to our cause in that country, felt that a debt of gratitude was due him from this whole nation. Since his first good offices, long ago, were rendered us in Massachusetts, it was fitting that Massachusetts should be first to make public acknowledgment of his eminent services, and, by the voice of her Chief Magistrate and of her most illustrious sons, to thank the friend who has so efficiently labored in our country's cause.
The assembly collected on the occasion was immense. The vast hall was half filled more than an hour before the time appointed for commencing the exercises, and hundreds of those who came later went away, unable to gain even a standing-place within the doors. The portions of the house last filled were the platform and the first balcony, which had been reserved for invited guests. Among these were many members of the Legislature, and of the municipal governments of Boston and its neighboring cities, and many friends of reform, especially of those branches of it with which the illustrious guest of the evening has been chiefly connected. Ladies were abundant in all parts of the hall, and the aspect of the meeting, from beginning to end, showed enthusiastic sympathy with the occasion.
His Excellency Governor Andrew presided. Vehement applause welcomed him when he came upon the platform with Mr. Thompson, and was thrice repeated when he came forward to make the introductory address.
As arrangements were made for a verbatim report of the speeches on this occasion, no sketch even of their purport is needed here. I will only say that they held the great audience in alternations of attention and applause until half-past ten o’clock. 
On Mr. Thompson's rising to respond to the address of welcome he had received from the Governor of Massachusetts, a storm of applause greeted him, followed by nine vigorous cheers. Three cheers more were given at the close of his speech. The heartiness with which these demonstrations were made showed them to be the voice, and to spring from the inmost feeling, of the whole assembly. In this tribute to the good offices rendered to our land by the great English reformer, the new generation heartily joined with the men and women who had stood by his side in the great conflict of thirty years ago. This unanimity marked the immensity of the change which Massachusetts has undergone. Mr. Thompson, as one of the speakers remarked, stands now, intellectually and morally, where he always stood. The people of this land, by the gradual progress of a great and most salutary reform, have come round to agreement with him.
The speakers on this occasion, besides those already named, were Hon. N. B. Bryant, formerly of New Hampshire, now of this city, Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, Prof. William B. Rogers of Harvard University, and Judge Russell. Mr. Garrison and Judge Russell declared themselves not to have been on the programme, but consented to speak, at the urgent request of the audience. They could not have spoken more to the purpose if they had made the most elaborate preparation.
The occasion was highly satisfactory and successful. The opportunity was appropriately seized not only to express the gratitude of the State and its people to one British friend of American ideas and institutions, but to mention with honor other distinguished English friends of the United States—and that large number among their “middle class” who look upon our country with a sympathizing eye—and that noble band of their “operatives” who endured the utmost extremities of poverty, the loss of labor and the loss of bread, rather than be false to liberty—and those members of their daily press which took position, from the first, on the side of freedom—and that Sovereign Lady, distinguished alike for the excellence of her private character and of her public influence, who worthily rules over them.
At the suggestion of Governor Andrew, just before the close of this pleasantly protracted meeting, three hearty cheers were given for the Queen of England, and three for the President of the United States.
It is to be hoped that the many who have newly had a sight and a hearing of George Thompson, as well as those who already knew the nobleness of his character and the power of his eloquence, may have further opportunities of hearing him in speech or lecture.—C. K. W.
THE PETITION. Not an hour should be lost now in completing the signing of THE PETITION for an amendment of the Constitution prohibiting slavery forever, and forwarding the same to its destination. The subject is fully before Congress, and has a strong body of friends there. The unmistakable voice of THE PEOPLE should now be given to sustain the friends of this great measure, and confound its enemies. These are historic times. Let none withhold his aid from shaping them wisely for a glorious future.-M, 
THE ATLANTIC for March is promptly issued, as usual, and, of course, will be eagerly perused. Here is its table of contents:-
1. The Queen of California. 2. The Brother of Mercy. 3. Ambassadors in Bonds. 4. Wet-Weather Work. V. 5. On the Relation of Art to Nature, II. 6. Our Classmate. 7. Whittier. 8. The Convulsionists of St. Medard. 9. House and Home Papers. III. 10. Song. 11. Our Soldiers. 12. William Make peace Thackeray. 13. The Peninsular Campaign. Reviews and Literary Publications. Recent American Publications.
Ticknor & Fields, publishers, 135 Washington street, Boston.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY for March is received, and presents the following table of contents:-
1. American Finances and Resources. Letter III. of Hon. Robert J. Walker. 2. Palmer, the American Sculptor, by L. J. Bigelow. 3. Clouds, by Mrs. Martha Walter Cook. 4. Sketches of American Life and Scenery, No. 2, by L. D. Pychowska. 5. The Issues of the War, by John Stahl Patterson, Q. M. Sergeant, 20th Ohio Battery, Chattanooga, November, 1863. 6. <illegible>. 7. Carl Friedrich Neumann, the German Historian of our Country, by Professor Andrew Ten Brook. 8. The Great American Crisis. Part III., by Stephen P. Andrews. 9. Thistle Down, by Frances Lamartine. 10. The Love Lucifer, by S. Leavitt. 11. American Finances and Resources. Letter IV. of Hon. Robert J. Walker. 12. Was He Successful? by Richard B. Kimball. 12. The Mechanical Tendency in Modern Society, by John A. French. 14. An Indian Love Song, by Edwin R. Johnson. 15. Literary Notices. 16. Editor’s Table.
Though but little more than a year has elapsed since the CONTINENTAL was first established, it has during that time acquired a strength and a political significance elevating it to a position far above that previously occupied by any publication of the kind in America.
Published by John F. Trow, 50 Greene street, New York.
REV. M. D. CONWAY IN ENGLAND. This gentleman, under date of Feb. 6,1864, writes to a friend in Boston:-“ I have accepted, for six months, a unanimous invitation from the society at South place, formerly under W. J. Fox, M. P., to supply their pulpit. Mr. Parker was invited to speak there when in London.”

<c05>
MASON JONES ON THE AMERICAN WAR.
On Saturday evening, January 30th, Mr. Mason Jones, who has recently returned from a tour in the United Sates, delivered an oration in the Free-trade Hall, Manchester, England, on “America, the civil war and its cause-slavery.” The large hall was well filled by a mixed audience, the Northern element predominating. Mr. Jones spoke with his customary eloquence, and endeavored to do justice to <ILLEGIBLE> sides, balancing his denunciation of Southern perfidy with admiration of their valor, and the administrative ability of their leaders.
About a year and a half ago, the lecturer said, he went to the United States, and was fortunate enough to make the acquaintance of nearly all the leading men, from President Lincoln downwards. Of all the men with whom he ever came in <ILLEGIBLE>. President Lincoln was the most honest. The government and people of the North were engaged in fighting the battle of the ages-the battle of free labor against slave labor-the battle of civilization against barbarism—the battle of the many against the few—the battle of the poor against the rich—the battle of learning against ignorance-the battle of learning against ignorance-the battle of light against darkness—the battle of heaven against hell. This American struggle presented two of the most singular contrasts ever exhibited in history, and that was between the condition of the United States three years ago, and their condition now. Then the people were great, united, powerful, prosperous, and free, possessed of greater personal liberty, and greater political, religious, and material prosperity than any other people ever enjoyed before; they were unburdened with taxation, and had no great army or navy to support. Three years had passed, and how changed the scene! The tempest of civil war had burst and deluged the land with blood; the mighty republic was rent in twain; her citizens had met upon fifty desperate battle-fields; an enormous debt had been incurred; taxation had increased a thousand fold; a million of men were in arms; vast naval armaments were in process of construction, and death had reaped his fearful harvest of two hundred thousand victims of this war. What caused this change? Upon the answer would depend whether this were a just or an unjust war, whether they should sympathize with the Southerners as brave men struggling for independence, or stigmatize them as the vilest and most reprehensible traitors that ever cursed and disgraced that country. He should not have referred to the causes of the war had it not been for the hole-and-corner Southern soiree held in Manchester the previous evening, at which the prophet Spence, the ablest advocate the South had succeeded in enlisting, told such astounding stories as were only matched by those of Baron Munchausen. Mr. Spence actually had the temerity to tell his audience that every one knew that the North commenced the war in a sudden gust of passion. That was a “staggerer." Pray was it the North that pulled down the flag at Fort Sumter? Mr. Spence also said that the tariff caused the war. That lie about the Morrill tariff was coined to serve the English market, to excite the antagonism of the commercial classes of this country against the protectionists of the United States; and the lie having served its purpose by alienating tens of thousands of Englishmen from the cause of the North, it was time to consign it to that infernal limbo to which all lies must go sooner or later. The Morrill tariff had nothing to do with the rebellion, and any man who said it had, either in the North or South, should be looked upon as a rogue or a fool, or both. Then Mr. Spence said that the people of England were in favor of the South, and that thirty thousand people at Ashton had memorialized the government to interfere and close the war. Then why did not the friends of the South hold a public meeting in Manchester? The Southerners had taken the Free-trade Hall in the outset with that intention, and they were obliged to pay the rent of the room, though they did not use it. They knew that their resolutions would be outvoted, and that amendments would pass against them. He challenged Mr. Spence to a full discussion of the whole American question, and was willing to devote the proceeds to some charity. The cause of the war was not geographical position, difference of race, state rights, or tariffs, but wholly and solely slavery. For all, the misery that had been caused, and all the blood that had been spilt, Jefferson Davis and his compeers were guilty, and their condemnation was sure. They rushed to arms not to destroy tyranny, but to establish it; not to free men, but to rivet on four millions of their fellows the shackles of the slave. They strove to form an irresponsible aristocracy in the South. So frightful a perversion of everything fair and just and right was never yet witnessed: it was a conspiracy not against the North, but against the rights and liberties of mankind. These men, the cream and flower of the South, did not think it inconsistent with their gentility and chivalry to own slaves, to breed slaves, to sell slaves, to flog slaves, to torture slaves, to kill them. (Cheers and hisses.) Those few hisses showed that he was touching them on the sore, and they didn't like it. These Southern gentlemen, the chivalry of the South, did not scruple to separate husband and wife, the mother from her child, to deny to man the right to his labor and to himself, to rob woman of the rights of chastity and of maternity, to send female slaves to the flogging block, and in the prosecution of their infamous designs, to use the lash, the branding iron, and the bloodhound.
He rejoiced at Mr. Lincoln's proclamation of emancipation, the glorious effects of which he had witnessed, for it had freed a million slaves; and before another year he believed there would be three millions more free. That proclamation was no “pope’s bull against the comet,” but a veritable thunderbolt, forged in the armory of eternal justice, and hurled by the Omnipotent from the hands of Abraham Lincoln at the twin monster of slavery and rebellion. 
The slave power, even in the North, entered the pulpit, and gagged the minister of Christ; it seized upon the religious organizations, and perverted them to its purposes; it entered the hall of legislature, and wrote its behests in the statute book; it gagged free speech in the Senate House, when by the hand of the ruffian Brooks the estimable Charles Sumner was smitten down in blood; it entered the law courts, and poisoned the very fountains of justice; it corrupted the press; it reigned supreme in the halls of commerce; mammon became its ally; it ostracised every man who opposed it; it was a deadly upas tree, sheltering every foul thing, and with its poisonous miasma corrupting every form of religious, social, and political life. By the madness of Southern leaders, that upas tree was singed by the fires of civil war, the axe was laid at its root, and a voice had gone forth from heaven and earth, “Cut it down: why cumbereth it the ground?” There was nothing more noble in the history of the world than the attitude and action of the Northern people since this war began. As a moral spectacle, it was unique. A million men had sprung to arms to save their country from dismemberment. They had created a great naval power; and when the iron-clad monsters he saw constructing at Philadelphia, Portland, Boston, New York, and Baltimore were finished, they would be the greatest naval power in the world. Those who asserted that America desired war with this country were mistaken, and the writers who excited animosity and prejudice between the two nations were the deadliest enemies of England and of the human race. Lord John Russell would have been nearer the truth had he said that the North was fighting for law, and the South was fighting for its niggers. There was not a man in the Northern armies who did not know what he was fighting for. He saw no possible end of the war but the thorough subjugation, if not the extermination of the slaveholders of the South. He admitted that they fought splendidly,—worthy of a better cause; but no aristocracy had ever faced the people without being conquered. The American people were in the midst of a great crisis; he had full confidence that they would prove worthy of their mission. Mr. Jones, who had been often cheered, concluded with a brilliant peroration, and, after he had left the platform, he was recalled to receive an enthusiastic ovation from the audience. 

<c06>
REV. DR. MASSIE’S REPORT ON HIS VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES. 
A meeting of the Executive Committee of the Union and Emancipation Society was held in Manchester, England, Feb. 1, to receive a report from the Rev.<illegible> Massie, who, with Mr. Rylands, was appointed at a meeting held in June to lay before the American <illegible> and churches the address of the 4,000 French <illegible> ministers, and the response that was given in it by England.
The Rev. Dr. Massie said his mission to <illegible> had produced so much matter, that he had compiled his report in the shape of a thick printed volume, a copy of which he would hand to the Chairman, to whom the work was dedicated. He had presented his two addresses as he had been deputed, and, as far as possible, he had avoided political turmoil, and <illegible> to broad Anti-Slavery principles. He was <illegible> by Mr. Seward to the English Embassador, who <illegible> his documents and instructions. Lord <illegible> said <illegible> rejoiced in the mission, and wished Dr. Massie success; he said he anticipated great good from it, and he <illegible> see no objection to Dr. Massie's interview with the President. He (Dr. Massie) accordingly had that interview, and entered into a long, full and free conversation with him. He also had interviews with other Government officials, and among others with Mr. <illegible>. Mr. Sumner informed him of the popularity of Mr. Bright, M. P. in America, and of the <illegible> he had taken, on Mr. Bright’s request, to induce the President not to permit any sentence to be inflicted <illegible> a young man who had been charged with piracy in the neighborhood of California. He (Dr. Massie) was introduced in New York to about thirty ministers of <illegible>, and though their influence he met not <illegible> than 1,500 other ministers who were ready to <illegible> his message, and reply to it in the love of freedom. His visit to the States had shown him how <illegible> the President was to keep on friendly terms with this country, and how altered was the feeling of the <illegible> Americans with regard to slavery. Missouri, which was peopled by ruffians in the time of the Kansas <illegible> agitates, was now Anti-Slavery more than Pennsylvania Maryland, a Border Slave State, would thank God and take courage, if every slave she had was some <illegible> else. Kentucky was afraid the movement would <illegible> freedom even in that State. From the east is the west, from the north to the south, the educated, the enlightened and religions people of the United States were as one man for this one purpose-that the <illegible> should be crushed into the dust, and that the slavery of the negro should be buried in the same <illegible> (Applause.) The army of the North was <illegible> <illegible> army of patriots, and the death of every soldier was a <illegible> consecration to the cause of freedom.

THE LOGIC OF EVENTS. 
DORCHESTER, Feb. 15, 1864.
To me, these terms have little significance, except as events stand to each other in the relation of <illegible> and effect. Thus defined, the cogency of such logic depends upon the depth and strength of the principles from which it springs, and to which it appeals.
The birth of a child,-the advent of a new man up on earth,-is an event of interest; not to the <illegible> alone, but to whomsoever it shall be known: it may be to the whole family of man. For it is the introduction of a new power in the world,-a new creative center. From that centre a virtue may go forth, which shall produce a tide in the affairs of men; a tide which knows no ebb, but which will still flow on to <illegible>, and cheer, and bless the men and nations of the earth in all generations.
Fifty years ago, more or less, a man-child was born into the world, whose name was John. Dropt in the seething cauldron of American life, like his great namesake of Judea, as he grew up to manhood, he became an instrument in the hands of Providence, of power to shake the elements of society, and <illegible> events. He was the voice of one crying from the plains of Kansas, “Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.”
In his mental constitution, the sense of justice and the love of mercy were the prevailing elements. These, backed and intensified by a strong and earnest affectional nature; and the whole, permeated, <illegible> and sustained by fervent and enduring religious sentiment, gave him faith in justice, faith in humanity faith in God.
When, therefore, the fulness of time had come, and the audacious attempt was made to extend the infamous slave system into territory which was supposed to be secured and consecrated to freedom forever; endowed and constituted as he was, he threw himself with a holy zeal into the midst of the momentous conflict which ensued, and, as if commissioned from above, devoted himself with all his soul, and with all his strength, to save a noble State from the withering curse of slavery, and the nation itself from the disgrace and wickedness and woe which were <illegible> to follow in its train. 
Not content with checking the extension of the institution, he wished it everywhere abolished. Nor could he brook delay. His earnest spirit could not wait for tardy justice by legal means, especially under the administrations of the Pierce-Buchanan <illegible>, whose purpose and policy it was to extend and <illegible> it. Still less could he wait the hopeless process of persuading pursuading the insolent, grasping, overbearing slave-owners to cease from their wickedness, “to <illegible> the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free." But the work must be done, and, God helping him, it should be done quickly. 
He did not call the nation to repentance. The work had been done. The warning voice had <illegible> forth. That earnest and prophetic word had been <illegible>. It had been repeated and reiterated in the <illegible> ear, in all conceivable forms, for five and twenty years; but with no satisfactory results. Tyrants did but harden their hearts, refusing to let their <illegible> go. Their victims were still in their chains; and, to him, it was no way apparent that “the kingdom of heaven was at hand.” When John Brown went down into Virginia, therefore, it was not “to <illegible> deliverance to the captive, and the opening of prison <illegible> doors to them that are bound.” He went down, <illegible> in hand, to deliver the captive, to smite the oppressor if need be, to unbar the door of the prison-house, and let the oppressed go free.
Thus in the great struggle of our times was developed the heroic character of John Brown; and such a hero the world has rarely seen. He devoted his life to the cause of freedom; not for himself alone, nor for his kindred, but for a poor and despised race, who were every day robbed of their dearest rights; may, every right, and even of themselves. But they were members of the human family, children of the same Father, and were, therefore, entitled to justice, to sympathy, and to every token of humane and <illegible> regard. He died as he had lived, devoted to their welfare. He died upon the gallows.
And what a commentary it is upon the civilization (should I not rather say the barbarism?) of our country, when, in accordance with the forms of law, such a man must be hanged! But so it was. In December, 1859, the heroic career of John Brown was suddenly brought to a close. He was publicly <illegible> upon a Virginia scaffold, for attempting to <illegible> for ever from bondage some Virginia slaves. He did upon the gallows! What then? Is he therefore infamous? Nay, with such a character he<illegible> the gallows!
What a mistake, what folly, as well as <illegible> it was, in those Virginian Wise-men, to send him to the gallows! His soul is marching on. 
Escaped his earthly prison-house,
He's evermore set free,
Henceforth to traverse earth or air,
“From the Blue Ridge to the sea.”
His earnest spirit is not quelled
Or silenced for an hour;
“His purposes shall ripen fast,”
By large access of power.
In whatever light we view it, even as a military necessity, it is a remarkable and somewhat <illegible> that the Government, with the resources of the <illegible>
FEBRUARY 26 THE LIBERATOR. 35 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
try at its command, after unsuccessful efforts, for nearly two years, to put down the <illegible>, without detriment to the slave system, should, to vindicate its authority, be compelled to adopt as the type of warfare the idea and modus operandi of John Brown at Harper’s Ferry, and authorize gigantic raids into the enemy’s country, to liberate slaves whom it has already proclaimed free! Truly, ”John Brown’s soul is marching on." H.W.C.
LETTER FROM OHIO.
SALEM, Columbian a Co., (O.) Feb.11, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—I have read with great pleasure the speeches and letters at your late Decade meeting. It was the commemoration of the doings of a Society of thirty years' existence—a Society formed by the noblest men and women of any land. Its objects and aims were transcendantly the most sublime that could animate any combination. Thirty years ago, a thick pall of darkness, more impervious than that of ancient Egypt, settled around the heart of the American slave. Truly was it then said of him in his forlorn condition, that there was ”no eye to pity, nor arm to save," The American Church, as a body, was deaf as an adder to his woes. Well do I remember its stolid indifference. Being a member of the great Presbyterian Church at that day, believing then, in the honesty and sincerity of my soul, that the Church was the great instrumentality appointed to smite down all evil in high and low places, I had no doubt that it would take hold, with might and vigor, of the great work of the slave’s redemption. But, alas! alas! how had the fine gold become dim!—or, rather, it demonstrated that there was little if any gold there. Then it was that you unfurled the banner on which was inscribed this glorious and heaven-approved motto: ”Immediate emancipation the duty of the master and the right of the slave.” Let the toils and struggles put forth, and the bitter denunciations and calumnies endured, speak for the faithfulness by which that memorable banner has been kept afloat during the long period of thirty years. My confidence in humanity is greatly strengthened in view of the fidelity exhibited in the arduous and untiring labors of the American Anti-Slavery Society, through the long years of its existence. You saw the slave in his despair. You saw in him verified, to the letter, the bitter experience of the weeping prophet, that”there was no sorrow comparable to his sorrow.” With weeping eyes and pitying hearts, you came to his relief. There was no sacrifice, no matter how costly, but you willingly made it for his sake. Faithful lecturers, true prophets of the Lord, were sent forth, who earnestly urged his claims on the justice and sympathy of the people. The awful retributions following slavery and oppression were portrayed with a fervidness scarcely less than seraphic. The American people were told, in words of impassioned eloquence, that they had built their temple of liberty too small for their God, and consequently had placed him in it in a crouched position; that at no distant day the promethean fire of heaven would be breathed into him, and then he would arise and rend the temple. Verily, it was no false prediction. The God has arisen—the temple is broken. The people now behold their folly, and the nations of the earth are looking at the spectacle with amazement. Such will ever be the result when the effort is made to blend sin and holiness, slavery and liberty. God grant that the second temple may be large enough to embrace every race!
How delightful it would have been to me if I could have been with you at the time of your meeting! Surrounding circumstances prevented. Yet, though absent in body, I was with you in spirit.
In conclusion I will say, that my heart is filled with glowing gratitude to the Most High, who in his infinite goodness raised up, in the fulness of time, such an instrumentality as the American Anti-Slavery Society. Had it not been for it, (and especially for him who stands at its head,) the nation would have continued in the sleep of death, and our liberties now be clean gone forever. My fervent prayer is, that Heaven’s choicest blessings may still follow you. There is no happiness comparable to that of a faithful discharge of duty, especially when it is put forth in behalf of the weak, the despised, the most forlorn objects of earth. Millions will rise and call you blessed. Such is your rich legacy. The pure spirits of heaven smile upon you; and, looking back on the travail of your souls, you cannot but be abundantly satisfied.
Thine for universal freedom,
JOHN GORDON.
P.S. I see by the last Liberator that Mr. George Thompson is expected to be on our soil before another number of the paper is published. Noble man! May Heaven protect him! and may we, as a grateful people, receive him as our truest friend; as one who did more than any other man could do to turn the tide of England in our favor, in the darkest and most fearful hours of our peril. If he can be induced to come to the West, warm hearts will receive him. J. G.
CIRCULATE THE PETITIONS!
NEW YORK, Feb. 15, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:—"The world moves"—so does Washington, the capital of our nation. As evidence of this new corroboration of an old truth, let me cite the reception of the petitions sent by the Women’s National Loyal League, signed by a hundred thousand men and women. Yes, this huge petition was actually presented, debated and referred, like any other important petition. Charles Sumner,-Honorable not merely in name, but in noble deeds,—I think, felt that this was a glorious victory. I met him a short time after, and he looked and spoke like one who believed that a great thing had been done for humanity. He says, ”Pour in the petitions; let the millions speak out in one great chorus for freedom!"
Let the women of this country come to the work with the earnest purpose that the time demands. Our sons are spilling their rich life blood, and if not for a great principle, it will be of no avail. Let us, who may not wield the sword, nor command the armies of the nation, see to it that there is a full and decided expression of the people through petitions. Through these, laws will be compelled that shall secure to the nation what the sword wins.
Men of standing in Congress urge it. They say great radical measures are always carried by petitions. Good men are always strengthened by them, weak ones converted, and designing demagogues compelled to take sides with the right, because it is policy so to do.
Let every earnest woman resolve to spend at least half a day every week circulating petitions, until Congress shall be morally compelled to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. 
One thing I observed in Washington with unfeigned delight. All the good and brave utterances for universal freedom are applauded, while the temporizing are treated with silent indifference—another proof that ”the world moves." H.F.M.
THE WHIP, HOE, AND SWORD; or The Gulf Department in 1863. By George H. Hepworth. Walker, Wise & Co., Boston.
This volume professes to be a faithful record of what the author saw and heard in the last year’s campaign in Louisiana. It describes scenes, and narrates conversations, and gives us the impressions made upon the mind of a candid and intelligent observer, loyal to his country and faithful to the instincts of humanity. A great variety of subjects are discussed—not only the condition, capabilities, and prospects of the negro, but the raids upon Uncle Sam’s purse which contractors and quartermasters understand, the experiences of the soldier, the policy of Emancipation, &c.,–all in a style direct and racy, and evidently by one who thinks for himself. We commend this work to our readers—promising some extracts from it hereafter. Its circulation will aid the cause of liberty and loyalty.
<c02>
THE NEGRO POPULATION OF CANADA WEST. 
During last summer, Dr. Samuel G. Howe, of the United States Freedmen's Inquiry Commission, made an investigation into the condition and character of the negro refugees of Canada West. The fruits of this investigation he has embodied in a highly interesting and valuable report, forming a pamphlet of about a hundred pages. His general conclusions are as follows:
General Conclusions, drawn from Observation of the Condition of Colored People of Canada West. 
1st. That the negroes of Canada, being for the most part hybrids, are not of robust stock, and are unfavorably affected by the climate; that they are infer–tile, and their infertility is increased by intermarriage with each other; and therefore, unless their number is kept up by immigrants from the United States, or by some artificial encouragement, they will decrease and disappear in a few generations.
2d. That, with freedom and equality before the law, they are, upon the whole, sober, industrious and thrifty, and have proved themselves to be capable of self–guidance and self-support.
3d. That they have set themselves in families and hallowed marriage, whereby sensuality has lessened, and amalgamation between the races nearly ceased. 
4th. That they are exceedingly imitative, but incline to imitate what is most worthy of imitation in the society about them, and are decidedly improving in knowledge and virtue.
5th. That those situated upon farms show ability, industry and skill enough to manage them, though their isolation retards the mental improvement.
6th. That when they congregate in large numbers in one locality, and establish separate churches and schools, they not only excite prejudices of race in others, but develop a spirit of caste among themselves, and make less progress than where they form a small part of the local population.
7th. That prejudice against them among the whites (including the English) is engendered by the same circumstances, and manifested with the same intensity, as in the United States.
8th. That they have not taken firm root in Canada, and that they earnestly desire to go to the southern region of the United States, partly from love of warmth, but more from love of home. 
9th. That compared with the whites, the percentage of crimes indicative of lax morality is large; that of crimes indicative of malice and ferocity, all things considered, is not large; and that the percentage of pauperism is very small indeed.
10th. That upon the whole, they promote the industrial and material interest of the country, and are valuable citizens.
General Inferences to be drawn from the Experience of Negroes in Canada, as to the probable effect of giving Freedom and Equality before the law to all Negroes in the United States.
1st. That with freedom and the ownership of property, the instinct of family will be developed, marriages will increase, and promiscuous intercourse de–crease. That the tendency of this change to increase population will be more than counteracted by the inferior fertility of the mulatto breed, when not invigorated by crossing with pure types, black or white; so that the colored breed will soon begin to decrease. 
2d. That, under freedom, we may safely rely upon the natural laws of affinity to check amalgamation of races, which slavery encourages by putting a premium upon the offspring, and in other ways.
3d. That, with entire freedom of movement and security from oppression, much of the colored population of the Northern and Western States will be drawn by the natural laws which govern movements of people toward the tropical regions, carrying with them social influences which will soften the ferocity now prevalent, and be beneficial in many respects.
4th. That the negroes of the South are capable of self-guidance and support without other protection than will be needed by poor whites; and that they will be loyal supporters of any government which insures their freedom and rights.
5th. That, when living in communities with whites in not greater proportion than one thousand to fifteen or twenty thousand, antagonism of race will hardly be developed; but the negroes will imitate the best features of civilization, and will improve rapidly.
6th. That it is not desirable to have them live in communities by themselves. 
7th. That they will be docile and easily governed by laws, and, however given to petty offences, will not be prone to crimes of grave character; that they will be peculiarly susceptible to religious influence, and excel in some of the Christian virtues.
8th. That they will not be idle, but industrious and thrifty, and that there will be less pauperism among them than is usual among our foreign emigrants.
9th. That by their industry and thrift, they will forward the industrial interests of the country, without the fearful demoralization heretofore caused by their oppression and debasement.
COPPERHEAD SPIRITUALISTS.
Being in the neighborhood of Somers, Conn., last week, I wrote to an old and tried friend of freedom there, that I would speak in that place on the following Wednesday, if a hall could be obtained in which to hold the meeting. Receiving a prompt reply, that arrangements, had been made, and notice given that I would lecture in the church owned and occupied by the Spiritualists, I went over on Tuesday, and found hand-bills posted, and everything in readiness. However, it soon appeared that the copperhead feeling in the town, although it had been baptized by Spiritualism, had resolved that the address should not be delivered; for, before night, the following notice was placed upon the doors by one of the Committee:-
“NOTICE. We, the undersigned, being a Committee of the Spiritualists Society, are appointed to take charge of the church, hereby forbid any person or persons using or speaking in said church, except for the discussion of Spiritualism, that being the purpose for which the house was built, and so specified in the deed to said society.
Per order of the Committee.
(Signed,) T. M. GOWDY, F. LOOMER, JAMES M.
HARRIS, JOHN C. GOWDY.
Somersville, Conn., Feb. 9, 1864."
The above is a verbatim copy of the notice. For a time it seemed as if Truth and Freedom were to be driven from the town; but the Methodist Society learning that we had been shut out by the Spiritualists, very kindly opened their house, warmed and lighted it, without any charge whatever, and we had a respectable and well-behaved audience. Having listened to several of the ablest of the lecturers on Spiritual phenomena, and hearing them say that Spiritualism was without sect or creed, and that it was destined to uproot all sectarian bodies, I confess that I was a little surprised at the action of this committee. The plea that the house was built for the discussion of Spiritualism only, will avail nothing but to show their sectarianism and bigotry. I was informed that the house was dedicated to ”God, Christ, and Humanity.” Nevertheless, it is a noted fact, that the members of the Society are so proslavery that they will not listen to an anti–slavery discourse, even though it come from an entranced medium. That the Secretary of the Society should be a negro-hating rumseller is, in itself, enough to condemn the whole organization. I therefore came to the conclusion that Spiritualism was our old enemy–the same snake in a new skinor, that these people were not true Spiritualists.
WM. WELLS BROWN. 
Cambridgeport, Feb. 15,1865.
Vallandigham's petition has been denied, to have the sentence against him set aside by the Supreme Court on the ground of illegality, the jurisdiction of a Military Court not extending to the case of a civilian. The Court held that no appeal can be taken from a Military Commission to the Supreme Court.
<C03>
THE KENTUCKY FREE SOUTH. 
It will be recollected by many of our, readers that a newspaper called The Free South was for some time published at Newport, Kentucky, which boldly advocated the removal of the incubus of slavery from that State. Its editor, Wm. S. Bailey, was subjected to various persecutions, and more than once to mob violence. But he held on his course until the John Brown raid produced such an excitement among the slaveholders, that his paper was finally suppressed by mob violence. Mr. Bailey continued to reside in Newport, however, finding friends who protected his person, though they were unable to save his property.
Believing that the time is propitious for re-establishing his paper, and that an organ of free labor will now exert a powerful influence upon the public mind in Kentucky, and conduce to the speedy removal of the blighting curse of slavery, Mr. Bailey is now on a visit to the East to secure aid for this important work. The earnest sympathy of a number of influential gentlemen, both here and in New York, has been enlisted in his behalf. In New York, such men as Mayor Opdyke, William Cullen Bryant, and others, have taken hold of the work. Liberal subscriptions have been made. One gentleman offers to give $1000 when $4000 shall have been raised. Others have subscribed smaller sums. Mr. Bailey is now in this city, and makes an appeal to our citizens which, we believe, will not be in vain. We take pleasure in publishing the following letters:
BOSTON, Dec. 26, 1863.
It gives me pleasure to say that in my opinion the Free South, while it was published by William Shreve Bailey, at Newport. Ky., was of great service in awakening non–slaveholders to a sense of the abominations and fatal influences of the system of slavery, which was overwhelming them. I regard the re-establishment of such a paper, under an editor so peculiarly and admirably adapted for conducting it as Mr. Bailey, at the present time, as likely to create an important instrument for rooting out the last remains of slavery, and of the public opinion which sustains the institution, and for promoting education, virtue and loyalty, wherever it reaches.
JOHN A. ANDREW.

BOSTON, Dec. 26,1863.
I heartily concur in the views of Gov. Andrew, and hope Mr. Bailey will succeed in re-establishing the Free South.    S. E. SEWALL.
To William Shreve Bailey, Esq., Present:
Esteemed Friend–I consider the re-establishment of your newspaper at Newport, Kentucky, of importance to the spread of anti-slavery opinion in your State.
It will give heart to the noble Union men who have periled their lives for the faith, and who, slavery being abolished, would control the politics of the State.
It is also due to your unflinching courage and perseverance, which alone have enabled you to maintain your stand against persecution for many years past.
Therefore, I hope our friends will give you the requisite aid. GEORGE L. STEARNS.
BOSTON, Feb. 16,1864.
 The undersigned heartily coincide with the views expressed by Gov. Andrew and Major Stearns, relative to the importance of the re-establishment of Mr. Bailey's paper at Newport, Kentucky. 
HENRY I. BOWDITCH, 
WILLIAM CLAFLIN, 
WARREN SAWYER, 
AMOS A. LAWRENCE, 
JOHN M. FORBES, 
ELMER TOWNSEND, 
JOHN J. MAY.
In this connection we may remark that Mr. Bailey is no fanatic, but is a cool, clear-headed man, whose anti-slavery views are the result of deep convictions as to the true interests of his native State. He was endorsed by two hundred and thirty-one citizens of Newport, soon after his paper was mobbed, in the following strong terms:
" Mr. Bailey has resided in Newport some fifteen or twenty years, and has always been regarded as a peaceable, law abiding citizen, moral and upright in his dealings."
Contributions in aid of this deserving enterprise may be sent to Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., No. 46 Washington, street. Who will help Kentucky out of the ”slough of despond"?–Boston Journal. 
PAY OF COLORED TROOPS.
The Senate has decided that colored soldiers shall not be paid for their past services. The debate on Saturday, so far as can be judged from the telegraphic summary, was conducted with the same disregard of facts, and the same disrespect to public opinion, as before, and culminated in the adoption of Mr. Wilson's amendment, striking out all pay before January 1st, 1864. A proviso offered by Mr. Sumner, that such troops as were actually enlisted with promise of full pay should receive it, was also rejected by yeas 16, nays 21. In other words, the Senate has voted that, in such a ease as that of the 1st South Carolina Colored Volunteers, who were enlisted under the written assurance of General Saxton–authorized by the Secretary of War, and subsequently admitted by the Solicitor of the War Department to have constituted an explicit contract for the payment of $13 a month and allowances–even in this case the faith of the Government is not to be kept. The argument which prevails with the Senate is simply that it costs too much to be honest. 
The proposition to pay the colored troops for their past services has been called ”retrospective," as if that were an opjection against it. It is retrospective just as much as any legislation is which recognizes the existence of a debt, and proposes to pay it. And that seems to be the real difficulty with the Senate; they don’t understand that it is really a debt. There has been no question discussed this session in which so much ignorance of the facts has been shown; yet the material ones have been widely stated in the public press. As the Senate seems to be too busy to examine at length into the facts on which depends so trifling a matter as doing justice to fifty thousand soldiers, we will be brief in making a new statement. 
1. We affirm, as a proposition of law, that the President has complete authority, prior to the two acts of July 17, 1862, to accept negroes for the military service of the United States, either as regulars or as volunteers. In neither of these acts is there any limitation, express or implied, of his previously existing authority. They contemplated the employment of negroes in other capacities, and fixed their wages at $10 a month.
2. As negroes were competent to be enlisted into the military service, and were actually so enlisted, they were legally entitled to the pay and allowances provided by law for other soldiers. There was and is no statute expressly reducing the pay of negroes as soldiers; and in the absence of a mandatory statute, neither the Secretary of War nor anybody else had the legal right to reduce it.
3. If follows that the colored troops in the service of the United States have a legal claim against the Government for full pay and allowances from the dates of their enlistments respectively. 
We now appeal to the House to take care that these debts, due to soldiers who have served faithfully, and fought gallantly for the Union, be honestly paid. Don’t let us begin a policy of repudiation.—N. Y. Tribune.
THE LOUISIANA FREE STATE PLATFORM.
The following is the platform which was adopted by the Convention that nominated Mr. Hand for Governor of Louisiana:
Resolved, That we solemnly believe the Union of this State, handed down by our Revolutionary ancestors, of infinitely more value than any other falsely–termed State rights of any sectional institutions, and we deem it our most sacred duty as patriots to transmit it undivided to posterity.
Resolved, That we, as citizens of the United States, as well as of the State of Louisiana, know that the observance of the Union depends on maintaining the supremacy of the Federal Union, and do, on the part of Louisiana, utterly disclaim any pretension to any rights not subservient of that supremacy, and hold her primary allegiance as due to the Government of the United States. 
Resolved, That, regarding the institution of Slavery as a great moral, social and political evil, opposed alike to the rights of one race and the interest of the other, and inconsistent with the principles of free government, we hail and desire its universal and immediate extinction as a public and private blessing.
Resolved, That we desire the principles of this State to be based upon a sure and broader foundation than the operations of military orders, and we will use every means in our power to hasten the day when they shall be embodied in a State Constitution, that Louisiana is and shall forever remain a free State.
Resolved, That we heartily approve of the plan adopted by Gen. Banks to ensure that result, as well as to restore the voice of Louisiana to the council of the nation.
Resolved, That we will support no man as a candidate for office who is unwilling to subscribe to and pledge himself to carry out the principles set forth in the above resolutions.
On Thursday forenoon of last week, Mrs. Van Benthuysen, connected by marriage with the family of Jeff. Davis, delivered a lecture in the Representatives' Hall, in Boston, in reference to her personal experience in the South during the period immediately preceding the rebellion. She is a Northern lady by birth, and relates some very interesting incidents. Rev. George W. Patch, of Marblehead, presided most acceptably, a large audience was present, and at the close a considerable sum was contributed for the benefit of the speaker and her cause.
<C04 >
EMANCIPATION IN KENTUCKY.
A large and Influential meeting of the friends of emancipation in Covington, Ky., was held on the 13th inst. Mr. C. A. Preston presided, and upon taking the chair spoke with great directness and force on the necessity of utterly destroying slavery, ”the backbone of the rebellion.” Among the resolutions adopted by the meeting were the following:
Whereas, The assertion is continually being made by those who cling to the old order of things, that the enslaved black man is not fit to have his freedom therefore
Resolved, That we will not now stop to discuss the truth or falsity of this assertion; but we will meet it with this other assertion, viz., that no white man is fit to be a slaveholder, if holding slaves has a tendency to stir up such a rebellion against the best government that was ever devised by the wisdom of man. Had there been no slavery, there would have been no rebellion.
Resolved, That we denounce slavery, because, in the light of the experience we have had, slaveholding has a tendency to repress the energies of a free people; that it has a tendency to keep education and intelligence from spreading among the masses; that it also has a tendency to check free thought and smother free speech, and to inaugurate a state of things where the few rule the many, thus doing violence to the spirit of true democratic institutions.
Resolved, That while heartily approving of the President's proclamation, which gave to slavery its death blow throughout the rebel districts, we are desirous that immediate constitutional measures be taken to do away with the hateful institution in our own state.
A strong delegation was appointed to attend the Louisville Freedom Convention, and a determination avowed to enter at once upon a vigorous campaign for the overthrow of slavery in Kentucky.
CONGRESS.
Mr. Brown (of Mo.) offered a joint resolution to abolish slavery throughout the states and territories. The resolution provides that from and after the passage of the act, slavery shall not exist in any state or territory–any law, usage, claim or custom to the contrary notwithstanding; and prohibits all involuntary servitude, except for crime. Referred to the Select Committee on Slavery and Freedmen.
Mr. Johnson, from the Financial Committee, reported back adversely the bill of Mr. Sumner to remove doubts on the construction of the joint resolution, explanatory of the Confiscation act, and to declare that ”such resolution shall not be construed to create any other restriction on the forfeiture of the real estate of an offender under the said act than is created by the Constitution of the United States in the case of an attainder of treason."
Mr. Sumner offered amendments to the Constitution of the United States, as a substitute to those reported by Senator Trumbull from the Judiciary Committee a few days ago, and asked that they might be made the special orders for Monday next.
Mr. Sumner’s amendments are as follows: 
There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude anywhere in the United States, or within the jurisdiction thereof, otherwise than in punishment for crime, and that Congress may make all laws necessary and proper to enforce its prohibition.
Second—To strike out the third paragraph, second section of the fourth article of the Constitution, except the words ”excluding Indians not taxed,” so that the whole cause should read, ”Representation and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States of the Union according to their numbers, excepting Indians not taxed.”
Third–To strike out from the third paragraph, section fourth of the Constitution, the words: ”No person held to service or labor in the State under the laws thereof, and escaping to another, shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on the claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.” 
Mr. Clark of N. H., introduced a bill ratifying and re–affirming the President’s Proclamation of January 21st, 1863, and giving it the force of a statute. Referred to the Slavery and Freedmen’s Committee.
Mr. Munroe of Mo., submitted an amendment to the enlistment bill, confirming the emancipation proclamation, abolishing slavery throughout the country, and subjecting colored men to enrolment and draft.
Mr. Sumner’s resolution relative to ejectment of negroes from the cars in Washington was adopted.
WASHINGTON, Feb, 17, 1864. 
Mr. Cox, of Ohio, repeated, for at least the tenth time in the House, this afternoon, his speech upon negro equality, charging his political opponents with a desire to place the colored race upon a political and social equality with the white race. It was a campaign speech, and therefore was made in Committee of the Whole. He read extracts from a recent work upon ”Miscegenation,” and in the course of his remarks denied that the opposition was a pro–slavery party. He laid particular stress, however, upon the charge that the Republicans were trying to elevate the negro to social equality. When he took his seat, Mr. Washburne, of Illinois, took the floor, and gave the House notice that he was going to read a few extracts from a book of foreign travels written by Cox, a few years since; and he proceeded to give Mr. Cox’s striking description of an African priest whom he listened to with great delight in St. Peters, together with the comments of Mr. Cox upon the barbarous prejudices of his own country againt the colored race. The House was brought into a happy frame of mind by the reading of these extracts; indeed, the boisterous laughter indulged in called forth a reprimand from the Speaker. At no time was the merriment more general than when Mr. Cox denied that the party with which he acted was a pro slavery party!—Corr. Evening Post.
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. On Monday, 15th, a resolution was adopted in the House of Representatives, by a majority of sixteen—yeas seventy eight, nays sixty-two—declaring that” the Constitution of the United States should be so amended as to abolish slavery in the United States wherever it now exists, and to prohibit its extension in any part there of forever.”
In this vote we find the administration elements voting in the affirmative, and the peace Democracy and other Democratic fragments present voting against the proposition. The Northern Democrats are still wedded to their old idol. They still hold fast to the delusion that Southern slavery somehow is to come back to them some fine day, and to restore to them the spoils and plunder as the national political balance of power. But this new idea of the complete and permanent removal of this stumbling–block of slavery by a constitutional amendment is rapidly working its way through all the channels of public opinion; so that we anticipate that before the close of the present session of Congress, a majority of two–thirds will be found even in the House in favor of the scheme. Forty–six members were absent or failed to vote on the question on Monday, and they, we guess, are mostly men who are now astride the fence. Their voices, added to the affirmative vote given, will make up the required two–thirds vote to pass the amendment: and it will not be long before these fence men will learn on which side to come down.—New York Herald. 
SLAVERY PROHIBITED. The House, on Monday, 15th, passed a resolution that the Constitution shall be so amended as to abolish and prohibit slavery wherever it exists. It was adopted by a vote of 78 to 62. The following very brief synopsis of this important action was furnished by telegraph:-
“ Mr. Arnold, of Ill., offered a resolution declaring that the Constitution shall be so amended as to abolish and prohibit slavery wherever it exists.
Mr. Holman, of Ind., moved to lay it on the table. Disagreed to.
Mr. Arnold’s resolution was adopted—years 78, nays 62.”
”There may be some other method of keeping slavery out of the Union hereafter; but if so, we confess that we do not see what it is, and, at all events, this way is manifestly the surest. If the nation really means that there shall be no more slavery forever,— and if the war does not now mean this, it is very foolish to continue it any longer,—then we had better” name it in the bond.” Let us be manly and emphatic.—Salem Observer.
The Copperheads are in another dilemma. Very recently, they have been kicked out of the Supreme Court of the United States. All their praises since the war began have centred in that august tribunal. It was the last tribunal of liberty left in the country. All the rest had gone under. Suddenly they find themselves without this string to play on. They brought the case of their High Priest Vallandig ham before this Court, asking that a writ of certiorari be directed to the Judge Advocate General, in order that the Court might reverse the proceedings of the Military Commission, the jurisdiction of which was denied as applicable to him, a civilian. Judge Holt, a sound Kentucky Democrat, knocked the case out of water, and old Judge Wayne, a Georgia Democrat, delivered the opinion that the Supreme Court had nothing to do with the case. Now let us see what these fellows will do with it. Let all good Union men keep their ears open to hear what kind of a howl Copperheads and conservatives will emit in this case. Was there ever such an unlucky set in the world? The President is against them, the Cabinet is against them, the people are against them, and last of all, the Supreme Court of the United States, which they supposed they owned, is against them!
<C05>
BEQUESTS FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES. The late Miss Mary Jane Parkman, of this city, bequeathed to the Temporary Home for Children, in Kneeland street. $500; American Anti-Slavery Society. $500; Home for Colored Women, $500; Educational Commission for Freedmen, $500; New England Female Reform Association, $500; New England Hospital for Women, $1200. She also bequeathed to Wm. Lloyd Garrison, $500, to be used for the benefit of freedmen; to Mrs. Sophia L. Little, $500,. to be applied for the benefit of colored people; and $800 to Mrs. Phebe L. Upham, of Brunswick, Me., to be given to the ”Women and Children’s Band," for the benefit of heathen women and children. 
The following parties were made almoners of her bounty, for the amounts named, the only restriction being that the money should be applied to charitable objects: Mrs. Anne Augusta Greenough, (her sister,) wife of D. S. Greenough, of West Roxbury, $2000; Mary A. Georgina Otis, $2000; Horace L. Hastings and wife, $2000; Mrs. Ann L. Gwynne, $500; Mrs. Susan M. Monroe, East Cambridge, $500; Geo. Muller, Bristol, England, $300. She made Phebe L. Upham and Hannah B. Emerson her residuary legatees,—this money also to be given to charitable objects. 
The deceased was a daughter of the late John Parkman, Esq., of this city.—Boston Traveller.
" CHEEKY." “Perley, in a late Washington letter, mentions that among the petitions lately presented to the Senate was one from Mr. Charles W. Denison, asking an appropriation of seven hundred and twenty gve dollars, to reimburse his expenses on a mission to England, where, as he stated, he was Introduced to large numbers of the laboring classes, and addressed many thousands of them in behalf of the free States. Mr. Denison further stated that, since his return to America, he has been and still is engaged in the important work of obtaining volunteers for the army. The Senate committee on Claims were not convinced of the justice of the claim, and they not only reported adversely, but recommended that the consideration of the petition be indefinitely postponed.—Lowell American.
THE GLOUCESTER FIRE. The fire at Gloucester, on Thursday of last week, proves to have been even more disastrous than at first supposed. While the storm of wind was howling far at sea around the vessel which contain hundreds of Gloucester seamen, the storm of fire was devouring their homes on the land. Some forty families were rendered houseless, fifty or sixty stores burned out, and a number of public buildings destroyed, The ruins extend over three hundred yards along Front street, and the loss is estimated at nearly half a million. After all the insurances are deducted, the figures will show an amount that will be a fearful loss to a community so small as Gloucester.
A report made by a rebel official shows that if the attack on Fort Sumter had been renewed, last April, or rather followed up, that fortress must have been torn all to pieces, as there were nearly sixty tons of gunpowder exposed to the federal fire, which could not have been removed under a renewed fire, which could have been reached had there been such fire, and which was got off safely to the last grain because there was no such fire. It was not the first time, and we fear it will not be the last, that a grand opportunity was lost for striking a tremendous blow at the rebellion's expense because of the imbecility of some of our officers.
DEATH OF GEORGE A. COFFEY. We announce the decease of George A. Coffey, United States District Attorney, with sincere regret. He expired of paralysis, at his residence in this city, yesterday, at noon. For a long period one of the associate editors of the Sunday Transcript, the rich fruits of his cultivated mind and the best energies of his generous heart were known and appreciated by every reader. Rich in scholarship, and genial in his intercourse with the world, gifted beyond the measure of men in thought and speech, a ready writer and a fluent orator, his death will be, as it ought to be, sincerely regretted by those who knew him truly and well. He was among the most companionable of men, the most able of journalists, the most learned of lawyers, and the most vigorous and honest of public officials. May the sod rest lightly on his manly breast, and may gentle hands and earnest prayers make holy the sepulchre in which his mortal remains are enshrined!—Philadelphia paper.
DEATH OF REV. PARSONS COOKE. Rev. Parsons Cooke, D. D., pastor of the First Congregational (Orthodox) Church, in Lynn, died at his residence in that city on Friday, Feb. 12. He had suffered from a distressing illness for two years previous. Dr. Cooke was for several years editor of the Puritan Recorder, a religious paper published in Boston.
Hon. Henry Y. Cranston, of Newport, R. I., died at his residence in that city a few days since. He was one of the most prominent citizens of that State, and served two terms in Congress.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. 
I have received, in aid of the Massachusetts Colored Volunteers, not heretofore acknowledged, the following sums, viz:—
Miss Abby Francis, $20; Geo. C. Davis, 5; Mary G. Chapman, 5; A Friend, 4; W. W. Churchill, 25; Sam’l May, Jr., 5; Union League, Ward 11, 38 50; Mrs. Tebbets, 2; Allen Lane & Co., 20; J. A. Ordway, 5; Albert Davis, 5; D. B. Jewtt, 5; A Friend, 25; Pierce, Bros. & Co. 5; A Friend, 2; E. Allen & Co., 5; F. K. & Co. $10; Cash $5; Mrs. Sarah R. Russell, 50; cash, 5.
Also, from ladies of Newton, 66 pr. socks; J. J. May, 2 gross combs; Mrs. Theodore Parker, 25 books, 7 pr. socks; Mrs. P. T. Jackson, 5 doz. socks; Mrs. Waterston, 10 pr. socks; from Soldiers’ Relief Society of Vine Street Church, Roxbury, a generous supply of socks; a Friend, 1 doz. socks; Mrs. E. D. Cheney, 12 pr. socks; a Friend, 1 doz. socks.
The Committee have frequent calls from the brave soldiers of the 54th and 55th, and from their suffering families, and from the recruits of the 5th Mass. Cavalry, while their funds are nearly exhausted. 
J. H. STEPHENSON, 
Treasurer for the Com.
COLLECTIONS. 
BY E. H. HEYWOOD.
Rockport $2 81; James Griffin, 1 67; John Thurston, 1 67; others, 2 00; Essex, 2; Manchester, 2 67; Reading, 6 45.
BY WM. WELLS BROWN.
Sterling, Mass. 2 18; Orange, 2 78; Shelburn  Falls, 3 20; North Adams, 5; New Bedford, 4; Quincy, 10; Palmer, 3 14; Monson, 2 61; Pembroke, 3 25; Neponset, 4 22; North Brookfield, 5 68; South Wilbraham, 3 08; North do. 1 51; Brimfield 2 42; Chicopee, 8 79; Somers, Conn., 1 18.
MARRIED—In Brooklyn, N. Y., at the home of the bride, on Tuesday, Feb. 9, Miss LUCRETIA S. ANTHONY, daughter of Edward Anthony, Esq., of Brooklyn, and WILLIAM POTTS, (late of Philadelphia, but now) of New York, by Friends’ ceremony, in the presence of the Rev. Samuel Longfellow. [Erroneously printed last week.]
DIED—In New York city, on Saturday morning, Feb. 6, Dr. ABEL WILDER, in the 78th year of his age.
There were present, at the last sad hour, his wife, the partner of more than fifty years, and his sons, George, Samuel, and Carter.
The youngest of his children writes these words in far off Kansas, and mourns the loss of a father who was ever generous and kind, and whose whole life was devoted to deeds of manly charity:-
"He was born in Ashburnham, Mass., June 24,1786, and was a descendant of Thomas Wilder, who was buried in Lancaster, Mass., in 1651.
His favorite poet was Robert Burns. The American names most honored by him were Daniel Webster and William Lloyd Garrison. He was one who ’dared to be in the right with two or three’—or even alone. 
Beyond his own family be will be longest remembered by the poor and the unfortunate, who never asked his aid without receiving it. With no faults of pride, and with no selfish aims, he lived a just and manly life, and never wronged a single one of his fellow-men.”—Leavenworth Conservative.
MRS. ELIZA SCHUYLER. The New York Evening Post says that in the death of Mrs. SCHUYLER,” society has lost one of its fairest ornaments, and the community one of its most useful members. Mrs. Schuyler was a grand-daughter of Alexander Hamilton, and inherited in large measure his intellectual superiority. Her mind was assiduously cultivated in its various faculties, and her moral nature no less happily tempered in its original elements, and no less carefully trained by education. She was active in all those ways of doing good which are open to her sex, and especially took a very prominent part in all that has been done in mitigating the hardships endured by our soldiers, and for the comfort and relief of the sick and wounded. She has been withdrawn from the world at a time when it seemed that we needed her the most, in the vigor of her faculties and in the prime of a life as <illegal> as it was unostentatious.”
<C06>
CRISPUS ATTUCKS COMMEMORATION.— The Crispus Attacks Commemoration will take place at the Meionson, on Monday evening, March 7th, (the 5th <illegal> on Saturday.) Particulars next week. 
AARON M. POWELL will address meetings at 
Johnsonville, N.Y., Saturday, Feb. 27.
Hoosick, ” Sunday afternoon,” 28.
West Hoosick,“ evening,” 28.
Pittstown Corners,” Monday,” 99" 
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak on the above 
subject as follows:-
Lancaster, Friday,” 26.
Westminster, Saturday,” 27.
" Sunday,” 28. 
Gardner, Monday,” 29.
Hubbardston, Tuesday, March 1.
LORING MOODY, agent of the Educational Commission for Freedmen, will lecture in
Brunswick, Sunday, Feb. 28.
Augusta, Tuesday, March 1.
MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN.—The subscriber invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of JOHN BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at rooms No. 89, Studio Building, Tremont Street. M. EDMONIA LEWIS.
Boston, Jan. 29, 1864.
MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs. 
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music. 
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order. 
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is surely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS,} 274 Washington Street, Boston, 
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26—3t
HOT BATHS.
WE would call attention to the various Hot Baths, some of which are not elsewhere found, such as chemical, electric, and medicated Baths, hot acid, alkali and salt baths, and hot douches and sprays in use at the Round Hill Water Cure, Northampton, Mass. We have all read of the great suppleness of the joints, and youthful grace of motion attained by the Turkish bath. This also is here successfully administered.
It cannot be denied that a judicious medical use of these medical baths can scarcely be overestimated in relieving the system from impurities of the blood, local congestion, and the injurious effects of mineral medicines. Alternated as they are with the tonic use of cold water, and a process of thorough invigoration, the success of the institution in treating lingering complaints, and what have been thought to be incurable maladies, ceases to be matter of surprise.
These baths are of especial value in breaking up those deep-rooted diseases dependent upon an active virus in the blood, or of scrofula in the system, and in relieving one from all feeling of stiffness, clumsiness, or inertia; also, in treating incipient consumption, rheumatism, paralysis and gout.
The treatment is efficient in remedying sick and other headaches, of however confirmed a habit, and all bilious tendencies. 
This Water-Cure is crowded with visitors during the warm months, attracted not only by its superior advantages for regaining health, but by its excellent accommodations, mountain air, and the fame of its beautiful scenery. The quickest recoveries, however, are made in the cool months.
Dr. HALSTED, of this Water-Cure, will be in Boston at the Revere House, March 2nd and 3rd. He will be in from 10, A. M., to 5, P. M., and will be glad to see his friends and meet inquirers.
Feb. 26.
THE PROBLEM SOLVED!
AN intensely interesting work, arguing the inevitable and only just solution of the relations of the White and Negro races on this continent. It may be startling to some, but it is TRUE, and is being demonstrated by every day's events. Wendell Phillips said, ”I have no hope for the future, as this country has no past and Europe has no past, but in that sublime mingling of races which is God’s own method of civilizing and elevating the 
world." It is entitled
"MISCEGENATION.”
It unfolds a Future for this country hardly dreamed of as yet by its people, as the result of the recognition of the brotherhood and social and political rights of the Negro. It treats of the relations of the Irish and Negro, <illegible> Ideal of Beauty in Woman, Secret of Southern Superiority, The Type Man a 
<illegible>, The Future, No White, No Black, &c. 
Address AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, 121 Nassau Street, New York, successors to Tousey & Dexter 
Hamilton. Price, 25 ets.
New York, Feb. 3.
THEODORE PARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
Boston, Feb. 4, 1864.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
KING COTTON.
King Cotton looks from his window 
Toward the westering sun, 
And he marks with an anguished horror 
That his race is almost run.
His form is thin and shrunken, 
His cheek is pale and wan, 
And the lines of care on his furrowed brow 
Are dread to look upon. 
But yesterday a monarch 
In the flush of his pomp and pride; 
And not content with his own broad lands, 
He would rule the world beside. 
He built him a mighty palace, 
With gold from beyond the sea, 
And he laid with care the corner-stone, 
And he called it Slavery. 
He summoned an army with banners 
To keep his foes at bay, 
And, gazing with pride on his palace walls, 
He said, “They shall stand for aye!" 
But the palace walls are shrunken, 
And partly overthrown, 
And the storms of war, in their violence, 
Have loosened the corner-stone. 
Now Famine stalks through the palace halls
With her gaunt and pallid train: 
You can hear the cries of famished men, 
As they cry for bread in vain. 
The King can see from his palace walls 
A land by his pride betrayed-
Thousands of mothers and wives bereft, 
Thousands of graves new-made, 
And he seems to see in the lowering sky 
The shape of a flaming sword,
Whereon he reads with a sinking heart 
The anger of the Lord. 
God speed the time when the guilty King 
Shall be hurled from his blood-stained throne;
And the palace of Wrong shall crumble to dust, 
With its boasted corner-stone! 
A temple of Freedom shall rise instead 
On the desecrated site, 
And within its shelter alike shall stand 
The black man and the white. 
-Harpers' Weekly.

CORONATION OF WINTER.
[On the occasion of the late brilliant icy display on the trees.] 
In the sunshine of the morning, 
At the first pale crimson dawning, 
Steps forth Winter crowned to reign: 
All that East and West can send him, 
All that Heaven and Earth can lend him, 
Ornament his gorgeous train. 
Crown the lightest, crown the brightest, 
Sitting on a brow the whitest 
King or monarch ever wore; 
Silvery spangles gaily gleaming, 
Golden baubles richly beaming, 
As the day illumed it more. 
Long hair looped with diamonds flashing, 
Pendant jewels dashing, clashing, 
Blowing, flowing through the air; 
Down his rough beard, silvered whitely, 
Dew-drop beads are glittering brightly, 
Strung by sylphid fingers fair. 
Gemmed the brow with gems the rarest, 
Clasped the throat with clasps the fairest, 
Glistening like the star-lit sky; 
Chains and charms of magic dangle; 
From the belt pale emeralds spangle, 
Mingled with the ruby dye. 
On his broad breast, still the whitest, 
Cluster proudly gems the brightest 
Earth's rich treasuries supply; 
Purer pearls than sea has given, 
Crystals from the arch of heaven,
In their rivalled beauty lie. 
Round and round the jewels twining, 
On his arms the circlets shining, 
In the sun's love-light to lave, 
While upon each drooping finger 
Amethysts and opals linger, 
Shedding radiance as they wave.
Whitened raiment, loosely flowing, 
In the chilly north wind blowing, 
Crystals sparkling o'er and o’er;
Trailing field and forest over, 
Like a lily blossom cover, 
Draping mountain, mead and moor. 
Stern old monarch, shall we sue him 
With all honest reverence due him, 
As he mounts his ice-bound throne? 
Though his sceptre sway intently, 
Lead the frail lambs gently, gently, 
Leaving none to mourn alone. 
S. B.
-Salem Register. 

SNOW. 
Lo! what wonders the day hath brought, 
Born of the soft and slumb'rous snow! 
Gradual, silent, slowly wrought-
Even as an artist, thought by thought, 
Writes expression on lip and brow. 
Hanging garlands the eves o'erbrim— 
Deep drifts smother the paths below; 
The elms are shrouded, trunk and limb, 
And all the air is dizzy and dim, 
With a whirl of dancing, dazzling snow. 
Dimly out of the baffled sight 
Houses and church-spires stretch away; 
The trees, all spectral and still and white, 
Stand up like ghosts in the failing light, 
And fade and faint with the blinded day. 
Down from the roofs in gusts are hurled 
The eddying drifts to the waste below; 
And still is the banner of storm unfurled, 
Till all the drowned and desolate world 
Lies dumb and white in a trance of snow. 
Slowly the shadows gather and fall-
Still the whispering snow-flakes beat; 
Night and darkness are over all; 
Rest, pale city, beneath their pall! 
Sleep, white world, in thy winding-sheet!
Clouds may thicken, and storm-winds breathe; 
On my wall is a glimpse of Rome: 
Land of my longing!-and underneath 
Swings and trembles my olive-wreath; 
Peace and I are at home, at home! 
GROWING OLD TOGETHER. 
You have promised that, through life, 
We shall journey heart united, 
Husband fond, and faithful wife,-
And I trust the vow thus plighted. 
Hand in hand, and side by side, 
Through life's storms and sunny weather, 
We will our one fortune bide,
And at last grow old together. 
What if Time's unsparing wing 
Of some pleasures has bereft us?
Let us not, by murmuring,
Lose the many that are left us. 
What though youth and bloom depart, 
Swift as birds on lightest feather? 
Why repine with feeble heart? 
Shall we not grow old together?
Few indeed have been our years,
Yet enough our hearts to bind, love! 
And to show how many tears 
In Life's brightest cup we find, love! 
Since in our untied youth, 
We two sported on the heather, 
Dearest! it is meet, in truth, 
That we should grow old together. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
[Entered according to the act of Congress, in the year 1864, by CHARLES H. PEARSON, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.] 
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON, 
Author of” Cousin Frank's Household.”
CHAPTER XXII. 
POWHATHAN IN LELIA'S ABSENCE-STRANGE GUESTS.
For the first day after Lelia's disappearance, matters at Powhatan progressed in the usual routine, much as a clock keeps running after having been once wound up. Indeed, though Lelia's stay was protracted, none of the servants suspected the reason, unless it was Frink; and he, whatever his surmises, had the wisdom to keep his own counsel. The general gossip of the house went to establish the conclusion that missus Lelia had unexpectedly gone home with Mrs. Brownlee. 
But there was no mistress nor house-keeper, no one to eat at the family table; there was no one to “give out things,’ and poor Frink and the house-servants were in great trouble for food; there was not a mouthful to eat that was not under lock and key; and so Frink, cook William and Patsy held a council of war around the kitchen fire, which William kept burning more from habit than from necessity. 
“What's we's to do?" asked William, “’pears like we starve." 
“Neber in sich trouble," said Patsy, the dairymaid and dessert cook,” dish sher livin' on milk mos' miserable.”
“Very bad case," said Frink, “very bad.”
“No meat,” said William, with a deplorable look, “ nuffin to cook, fire all burnin' out for nuffin," as he put on another stick,”stomach dust empty, burn wid de milk-does so. What's we to do?”
“Dares de eggs ‘cumulatin. added Patsy, “couldn’t we bile’em? ‘Pears like we mought. I'd admire to make a good puddin', if ony dere was de sugar and de spice. I make sure we starve for de want of flour to make bread wid. Den dares de coffee: we've biled dem are old grounds ober till dey jist mud.” 
“But,” said Frink, “if de store-room locked up,’pears like de garden open. Dere's de sweet potato patch, we’11 borry some from dat. Den dere’s all de vegetables; help yourself, William, help yourself!”
“Dat all berry well, Frink," replied that worthy, “but where's de meat? No use trying to lib wideout meat,—mought as well be a field-hand.”
“Ah!” exclaimed Frink, with the air of a discoverer, “I have it! Dere’s de turkies; help yourself to’em, William! I stand for massa in his absence, I takes the’sociability.the’sponsibih'ty.  You kill de gobbler for dinner —don't know why he should strut about so, when we's starvin'!" 
“Oh, you Frink!” rejoined the cook, admiringly,” you is bound to lib well. ‘Pears like you play massa amiable.” 
As the effect of this conference, a good dinner was soon under way, and William, Patsy and Frink were once more in their element getting up a meal. In fact, their steps were brisker and their jokes more gay than wont, for they were their own masters, and were working for themselves. 
“If ony we had the key,” Frink soliloquized, as he re-dusted the parlor, “we'd set de table in de dining-room, as if we’ spected massa like; nothin' like havin' things done up in shape." Fortunately, as he thought, while polishing the side-board, one of the doors flew open, and revealed the key-box with its key alongside. “De bery thing!” he exclaimed,” we’ll git massa a dinner cbery day, now!” 
Forthwith Frink was laying the table with the usual quota of dishes, playing the part of house-keeper the while, sallying out occasionally to the kitchen to see how the roast got on, giving Patsy an encouraging word about the looks of her dessert in process of cooking, and generally making himself at home in managing a le maitre. 
The discovery of the key-box and the re-inauguration of regular meals put Frink on his feet once more; it was in unison with his taste, too, to be “like folks" and he performed accordingly. 
It was with a strange mixture of love of fun and freedom that Frink, once maitre la clef, went from the pantry to the store-room, and then from the closet to the side-board. Nor did he fail the while to try every key, from the ponderous rusty key of the wine cellar to the tiniest thing that unlocked the small drawer of the bureau. What treasures his eyes beheld! 
“I's bound to be massa for onct!" he said, as he peered with untold satisfaction into the treasures of the store-room. Barrels, boxes, firkins, jars, mutely underwent the unaccustomed inspection, and yielded up their choicest stores as readily as if to the most aristocratic house-keeper in the Old Dominion. As for Frink, never did that receptacle appear so inviting; for never before had he taken a full view, much less exposed at will, and tasted at pleasure; now helping himself from the sugar barrel, now tasting choice sweetmeats, now crowding his pockets with figs, prunes and raisins, and. having generally a jolly, free-and-easy time. It was a rare joy to peep into all odd places that had ever been locked up from his gaze, and he indulged his curiosity with ineffable delight.
In due time, he rang the first dinner-bell, which cook William understood was one-half hour to dinner; and, prompt to the hour, Frink appeared in the kitchen in the spirit of his farce. 
“William, you lazy dog! got massa's dinner ready?”
“Suttenly, Frink, I's ’beyed orders, an' massa Nelson's dinner ready!” said William. 
“Bery well, I commend you for't; but seeing massa Nelson don't come, we must do our duty by de dinner. It won't do to let it git cold and be wasted. Massa Nelson would n't’prove of dat.”
“Bery well,” replied William “I'll tote in de dinner rapid.”
Powhatan had had all sorts of company in its day, but never had the dining-room bestowed its hospitalities on such an assemblage. 
A spectacle truly shocking to the old regime masters and mistresses, whose portraits adorned the walls of the mansion. It were easy to fancy them frowning at the scene, so unique, so democratic, so like the leveling of the king of terrors, who cuts down the tall grass as well as the low. There they were, the dusky democrats, all helping each other, and getting on rejoicingly,-able not only to eat with a good appetite, but also able to cook the food needed,-capable of taking care of themselves. No scolding, no threatening, no haughty, supercilious airs, no appropriating the fruits of others' toil, and leaving them the “bits and ends,” “but all peers, each seeking to add to the others' enjoyment. 
Frink, at the head of the table, graceful, polished, handsome, presiding with the genuine au fait, was at home, and dispensed the honors as if all his life accustomed to it. 
At his right, sat cook William, his white wooly hair like a crown, his sleeves rolled up, and greasy kitchen apron still on. Jehu sat next, active, restless, joyous Jehu, the cup of his bliss rapidly filling. 
Patsy was at the other end of the table, and the broad, stolid faces of the gardeners, Planter and Billy, glowed their joy at her side.
"Carvin' is n't’zactly in my line,” observed Frink, as he drew his knife across the steel, ”but I reckon I can cut up dis ere turkey, and gib you each a piece, which is de main ting to be done. “Shall I gib you a drum-stick, William?”
Hereupon Jehu set up a drumming with his knuckles on the table. Frink gave him a look, and cook William replied,- 
“Laws, I aint a mite ’ticlar." 
“Dere's where I reckon you’s mistaken,” said Frink, 
<c03>
as he planted the carving fork in the nicely browned turkey, and commenced slicing the breast. “If anybody is ’tic’lar, you is, and I shall gib you de best slice. Patsy, you dish out de oyster pie. William, have de goodness to carve de bacon; we must not let de food waste for de want of eatin', —massa wouldn't prove of dat!” 
“How dis turkey done?” asked William, as he sliced the bacon. 
“Beautiful, done handsome brown!" said Frink. 
“I made de oyster pie," said Patsy,” how is it seasoned, Planter?”
“Mos' amiable, dat't is!" replied the coachman, as he took the well-filled plate Frink passed him. 
"Pass dat are omelet to Frink," said Patsy;”let me rec'mend dis ere omelet to you,” she added. 
“Tank you! returned Frink,” dis it one of William's choice dishes-can't be beat, no how." 
The little company being helped, conversation became general, and Patsy asked Frink where he reckoned missus Lelia done gone. 
“Dun know," replied Frink, seriously, “it's all a matter of ’jecture, ’parently. Mebbe she drown herself; plenty ob water in de riber, you see.”
“Dat are awful to tink of,” said cook William, shaking his head, “she dat putty an' interestin'. Neber could see de hinderin' cause why massa don't make her free, if she be a slave.”
“Hi diddle,” outspoke Jehu, his capacious mouth filled with turkey, “mebbe he feared he lose her hisself. Dere's a good time cumin,’ boys!”
“It dat hard for such as us to be slaves" said Planter, “but ’pears like she's an angel, dat can't stay long out of heaven. I reckon she drowned. She went to de edge ob de grove, and all de field-hands seed her gwine right down to de riber." 
Patsy burst into tears, and even Jehu looked grave, and asked if it would not be a good plan to get up the horses, and ride down to the river and search. 
“I should ’prove of dat,” said Planter,” massa he ’spect us to do all we can to find her. She so’fectionate to massa, an' she always hab a good word for us all; we orter be movin'‘bout it teronct. Though if she safe, I’s rudder glad she gone on ’count ob dish sher good time.”
“Dere's a good time cumin, boys!" chimed in Jehu, rejoicing in his first experience of oyster-pie.
“No doubt ob dat are," said Planter,” but you must larn to stop agitatin' de hosses so; runnin' ‘em round de mill ebery time you gits a chance, an' a keepin' ’em so mortal poor. Dar won't no good time come to dem as don't do good!" he added, emphatically. 
"Ugh!" said Jehu, dissecting his pie, “isn't dish sher a good time?  Couldn't we hab a little coffee ter wash de dinner down?” 
“You Jehu!” exclaimed Planter, “where you raised? Gemmen don't drink coffee to dinner!” 
“Neber mind," said the compassionate Patsy,” Jehu shall hab some; de coffee simmerin by de kitchen fire. I done made it’ spressly, an' done forgot it," and gliding out she soon returned with the coffee, and asking Frink for the keys, unlocked the closet, and produced cups, saucers, sugar, and pitcher of cream, and placed them on the table. 
The company became quite merry over their coffee, and enjoyed more of heartfelt, rational happiness than their predecessors at the table ever found in the wine-cup.
Dinner over, Frink, in the spirit of a true philanthropist, portioned out the remnants of the feast for the stable boys, and some of the field hands whom he knew to be especially worthy,—Chainy among the number. When Jehu went to water the horses, he gave him a well-filled basket to leave at her cabin.
Away the young hostler dashed through the avenue of flowering trees, out the park gate, and down the road to the creek watering place, then on to the mill, and with a sweep around to the quarters. Before reaching Chainy's cottage, at a turn in the road, he came up with overseer Rixby, who was going there to renew his tormenting of the poor slave-woman. 
“Halloa! you Jupe!” he exclaimed, ”what now? what you got in that basket?" 
“O, nuffin, ony some eggs I got at de mill. Massa he say, Jehu, be sure you bring up all de eggs from de mill;-so what's I do but ride down dar when I water de hosses, an an' c'lect’em," and Jehu looked the verification of his story. 
“Well, you rascal, go ’long, then!” returned the overseer, and for a moment deceived; then as Jehu galloped off, he cried out,” Halloa! come back here, you rascal!” but Jehu was too deaf to hear, and only urged his horse on through the quarters till out of sight of Rixby, when, seeing a little slave-child, he handed down the basket, saying,” Carry dat to-morrow morning to Chainy; an' here's a handful of raisins," and then with a wide sweep he returned to the stables. 
Seeing Jehu awakened Rixby’s suspicions, he determined to follow him up to the mansion, and make inquiries. But first he went into Chainy's cabin. 
"Got them are shirts done, hussy?" he asked. He was always having her to do some sewing for him, in addition to her field work. 
"No, massa Rixby," trembled Chainy, “it's dat dark when I comes from de field, I doesn’t git time to sew." 
"Well, light your pine knots, then,”  said Rixby, “git the sewing done at some rate. Anything but laziness for my use! Halloa!” he exclaimed, as the slave-child appeared with the basket Jehu had given him. 
“Oh, aunt Chainy!” cried the child, “Jehu gabe you dis” producing the basket. 
“The villyun!" roared Rixby, ”what business he to send that are basket of eggs here! It's well I'm on hand to settle things.  I'll foller that game a little. See here, Chainy, I must examine that are craft a leetle. Let me have that basket!”
He was transfixed with astonishment as he removed the cover, and saw bread and butter, toast, oysterpie, bacon, turkey, omelet, &c. 
"Eggs! eh!" he at length  ejaculated, “Jehu's hens lays curis eggs!  The villyun!  I'll teach him. Water horses, indeed! and steal from the table for the field hands! I'll fix him!" and the overseer forgetting all else in hit his wrath left Chainy, greatly to her relief; and, mounting his horse, rode in the direction of the mansion; but a shower coming up, the sky grew suddenly dark, and, being a coward, he turned his horse's head towards Chincapin Hill, to confer with his aide, Mrs. Rixby. 
"It's that are Lelia's doin's!" she exclaimed every now and then as she listened to the recital,-“she must be seen tew!” 
Accordingly, early next morning, Rixby rode over to Powhatan to pursue his investigations. Past experience had made him wary, and he came cautiously on, determined not to be the victim of any tricks by the servants.
Frink was in the midst of dusting the parlor when the overseer surprised him coming in by the hall door which was unlocked. 
“Halloa! villyun!”shouted he, “where's your mistress?” 
“Dun know," replied Frink, “pears like she drown herself she gone dese two days.”
"O you son of a lying gun! think I believe that story?”
“It's sartin true," said Frink,” you’ll find it so." 
“Great times you’re having," said Rixby, stalking through the parlor into the dining-room, where stood the breakfast table laid in faultless order—for Frink could not eat unless things were in shape; his fastidious palate must have hot rolls, waffles and muffins, oysters, and thin slices of bacon in the morning, and the other meals in proportion. In short, the table must look inviting enough for any company. 
“Who knows," said Frink to himself,” but master’ll be’ sprizing us some of dese ere mornings, comin' in to breakfast?" and with the pleasant make-believe delusion that he was doing it for master, he got up inviting repasts for himself and fellow-servants each day. 
<c04>
"What's all this mean?” pursued the overseer, as he saw the orderly preparations for the morning meal; “whose here to eat?”
"Why, ye see we's ’specting massa, and so we git ready for him.”
“Well, you rascal!” returned Rixby,” seein' he don't come, I'll invite myself to breakfast. Ring for cook William to tote it in!” and the overseer threw himself into Mr. Nelson's chair. Frink's countenance fell, but there was no appeal, and the bell brought in cook William with the coffee and hot rolls, who was so surprised at seeing Bixby Rixby there, that he came near letting the waiter slip from his hands. 
The overseer had the appetite of a bear, and devoured and scolded as if by steam-power, while Frink poured out his coffee in silent contempt.
“Villyun!" roared the overseer, “do you mean to cheat me out of the waffles and. Muffins?” Frink rang again, and cook William appeared, bringing them reluctantly, while the house-servants peeped in at the windows and through the half open doors, dismayed at the prospect before them. 
Cloyed at length, Rixby rose to go, to Frink's inward approval, who had his misgivings about his own breakfast.
“Very well,” said Rixby, turning back to wipe his mouth on the tablecloth, “keep ready for Nelson's comin', and I'll jest step in at meal times, an’ see that nothin' aint wasted." 
“Jimminy!" exclaimed Frink, as Rixby closed the door, “dat's a shame! Neber seed a hog at de table before! Wish he was hard to find, do so.”
“What's we to do now?” mournfully chimed in cook William, emerging from the kitchen, work-apron on, and face shining with perspiration,” de breakfas' des no’ count at all!”
“Neber mind,” said Frink,” it no use crying for spilt milk. He didn’t use up all de oysters, did he?” and a merry laugh rang out. 
Jehu popped his head in- “Hope de horse cut up, an' dish de oberseer in de creek, do so!” 
“That are gal Lelia gone!” exclaimed Mrs. Rixby, snuff-dipping violently, ”where upon arth she gone tew?" 
“That's the question, Barbary," said the overseer, “she's gone nobody knows where, and Nelson is to Richmond. You must go to Powhatan, and be mistress, an' I must get somebody to write to Richmond for me to onct.”
Land's sake alive! I go to Powhatan, an' be huss-keeper! Why, Rixby, it would take a rale born lady to do that. I can't and I won't. Our Plumy Ann's the one. If that aint a providency now! It beats all. Jest what I've been wantin'. Our Plumy is born to be somebody, and who knows but squire Nelson will take a fancy to her in ‘fliction.  She'd be an ornament to Powhatan, in my opinion!” and Mrs. Rixby looked as if her opinion was infallible. 
“Aint sure but you is right, Barbary," said the husband, “fix it out somehow. Go over thar, and take keer of the keys. Frink is whole hog now-master, mistress, housekeeper and all.”
“I'll crop him down," said Mrs. Rixby.“ Plumy and I will go there this very day."  So she unfolded her plans to her petted daughter, and by noon they were ready to go, the overseer having previously ordered Planter to come for them with the Powhatan carriage. Mrs. Rixby and daughter paraded themselves in all the finery they could command for this greatest of all occasions.
“It's your business to git a permanent seat in this ere vehecal,” said the aspiring woman, as Planter gave vent to his feelings by urging on his steeds. 
"O, marm Rixby!" said Plumy Ann, affectedly,” I wish you would be done.  Mr. Nelson, he's married and disposed of long ago.”
"What of that?” returned the mother,” his wife is a slave! So his marriage don't’mount to nothin'. You ken cut her out jest as easy. But I’spects she's drowned or runned off, and that’ll be the last of her.”
Having arrived,they commenced operation-depredations rather—crossing all Frink's notions of propriety in housekeeping, and speedily getting things sinto a general melee. 
If the poor servants were tried at breakfast, much more were they afflicted at dinner, when Mrs. Rixby and Plumy Ann figured as the occupants of the table. Frink and his coadjutors began to think that their good times were indeed over, as they heard Mrs. Rixby giving her daughter directions about the prolonged house-keeping of the establishment. The dining-room servant made shocking grimaces in swallowing his contempt. 
After the important consideration of dinner, the overseer's wife lost no time in getting possession of the keys, and then herself and daughter explored to their heart's content. 
At tea, Rixby made his appearance, and a consultation was the result, the conclusion of which was, that Jehu must ride over to Mount Pleasant, and inquire about Lelia, as squire Nelson would require this if at home. 
When Jehu received his orders, he was in high glee and capered around, scarcely able to get Pelham, the race horse, ready. At length, however, he accomplished it; and charged and overcharged by  Mrs. Rixby with his errand, he bounded into the saddle with the agility of a monkey, and away. 
“Neber ’spected to hab sich good time," said he, as he rode off ready for any adventure to turn up. He was ardent, fanciful, imaginative, sprightly. It had always been hard for him to realize that he was a slave. And as he dashed on he quite forgot his dusky complexion, and felt like any other wide-awake, well-mounted boy. Now he whistled, now he sang, and anon screamed and hallooed in the exuberance of his delight, making the old woods ring again.  Then as he scoured the plain, he exulted in the cloud of dust that Pelham raised, as if it were so much glorious fun. Nearing a Court House village, he reined his horse up to a watering trough by the roadside under a sycamore. While Pelham was drinking, a wagon load of grain, drawn by mules, and driven by black Jo, came up. 
"Halloa! what part of de country you from?" called out Jo. 
I's Jehu, from Powhatan. Whar'd you come from, an' whar you gwine?” 
I's from Mount Pleasant," said Jo,” I's been ter mill, ye see. What's de news wid you?” 
“Nuffin special," said Jehu, “ony we done lose missus Lelia; neber seed such times! ‘pears like ebery ting go wrong ebery which way. I's ridin' ober to Mount Pleasant to try to straiten matters, bein' as massa done gone to Richmond.”
"What you ’spect to do, Jehu?” asked Jo. 
I's gwine to’quire for missus Lelia, an' bring her back to Powhatan,” replied Jehu; “‘pears like we all go to rack and ruin widout her. Frink, he can't housekeep, cook William can’t cook, an' I can't eat without she found.”
"Take her back to Powhatan? gwine to take her on de hoss behind you?” asked Jo, laughing.
“O, you shet up!” exclaimed Jehu;” in course I'd walk an' let her ride, if dar want no carriage to be had. But she ebery inch a lady—de like of her should n't want for nuffin. What's de news wid you? Is missus Lelia at Mount Pleasant?” 
"No," replied Jo,”reckon she neber been dar. I neber seed nuffin of her dar.”
"What's I to do now?” said Jehu, “whar's I to look for her?” 
It's des no use your looking," replied Jo, as he took a quid of tobacco. “’Pears like de quickest way to find her is not to look,—she turn up some time or urrer, if she's to be found at all. Heerd de news’ bout de circus?”
"Circus! what dat?" asked Jehu. 
"O, it's where folks performs on horses," rejoined Jo. “Dey dance on one foot on de horse's head, when he gallop fast as he can, des as easy as if it was de barn floor. Den dey does lots of tings dat I can't stop to ’splain. De Circus is comin' into town des fore night, an’ I' se gwine to stop, an' res' de mules 
<c05>
like, an' see it” and Jehu proceeded to take out his bag of provender to feed them. “Great ting dat Circus," added Jo, ”you nebber seed it agin in your life; stop wid me, an' see it—I'll fodder your hoss." 
"Tank you," replied Jehu, his eyes big with excitement. “Reckon I'll stop; des de chance I wants. Hi diddle! won't it be fun?" And springing off Pelham's back, he cut somersets for expletives.
Jo had a snack of ash-pone and bacon in a basket in the wagon, and shared it with Jehu, whose appetite, invigorated by the ride, did him justice. His curiosity was thoroughly aroused about the Circus, however, and mingled with eating were numberless questions, all of which Jo answered very wiseley and satisfactorily, setting out the show with oriental adornings.
By and by, about an hour before sundown, the procession of ponies, horses and carriages made its appearance, led off by a band of musicians in a gaudy car, drawn by gaily caparisoned steeds. Jehu, nothing daunted, mounted Pelham, and rode up and down the street of the Court-House village, alongside, for the purpose of making better observations, quite unconscious of the eyes that were following his odd maneuvers and freaks of horsemanship; wholly unaware, as he dashed by a group of men and boys, that their cheers were meant for him. 
The keen-eyed manager of the Circus gazed after him and his horse with  unwonted interest as he hovered about the tent, while preparations were making for the performances. The proprietor very pleasantly began to make the acquaintance of the servant, and soon learning where he was from and his errand, invited him to the Circus, giving him a ticket. 
Jehu's feelings” can better be imagined than described,”," as the old writers have it. Had he been suddenly elected to the Presidency of these United States, he could not have felt more promoted; for, according to Jo, the Circus was the grandest affair to in creation, and the circus performers the finest gentlemen and ladies in the world; and to be really invited to attend, by one of the gentlemen, was almost too much honor for poor Jehu. Impulsive and ardent, he however appeared well under the excitement, while the manager, Mr. Monroe, a shrewd Yankee, was highly pleased with him, wondering at the rare capacity he displayed. He saw that the boy was well cared for, and gave his groom charge to attend to Pelham; and Jehu now really began to pick up the crumbs of his consequence. He was fascinated with the circus performers, and ready to imitate everything he saw. 
“How would you like to be my circus-boy?” asked the manager, as he lingered after the crowd had retired. 
“Dun know," replied the boy, wonderingly. 
“Live with me,” said Mr. Monroe, lighting a cigar, “and I'll give you new clothes, all you want to eat, and lots of money and candy.”
Jehu scarcely knew what to say, but he looked willing enough, and finally said, “Who'd dar be to take Pelham back?”
“O, I'll see to that," was the ready reply—" we'll arrange that. Let me see—did your master ever pay you for taking’ care of his horses'?" 
"No," replied Jehu, ”reckon he neber pay me any ting but my snack an' old duds.”
“Very well," returned Mr. Monroe, ”Pelham belongs to you, then. Stay with me, and we'll take good care of you, and your horse too: and when I go North in a few weeks, if you do well, you shall go too.”
“Bery well," replied Jehu, “I reckon I'll stay;" and at once he resumed his whistling and capering. The company were soon busied in pulling up stakes, and packing for Richmond, the place of their next engagement. Jehu, as he lent a helping hand, was the life, music and sunshine of the party, and with his oriental turban and rich livery of orange and blue, was really an attractive embellishment. 
The journey to Richmond was most interesting to him. His eyes aglow with enthusiasm, he saw every thing in a halo. Never did landscape look to lovely. Sparkling and scintillating with wit and laughter, he had a place given him in the chariot appropriated to the band. His gladness became contagious, and they all pronounced him the funniest boy alive. Without more ado, he was installed a pet. No more scolding for Jehu. No more exhortations from Planter. No more shaking of Planter's wise head at his reckless “agitating” of the horses, and his general prankishness: all over now, and Jehu is in a new free world, his own master.
“Ole mass'r on his trables gone, 
He leave de land behind,"
was the spirit of Jehu’s self-reliant triumph. 
It was the third day of the Circus at Richmond when Jehu, in the height of fun, frolic, and daring feats, catching a glimpse of Mr. Nelson, who happened to be in town, passing on his way to the Exchange Hotel, took the hint that he must keep close, and warily told Mr. Monroe. 
“Ah, indeed!” said the man of the Circus, “you must not be seen any more in this place”; and more fully disguising him, no one of his old acquaintances would dream that he was about.
As the Circus horses were being harnessed, Mr. Nelson was passing, and seeing Pelham, was struck with his familiar appearance. 
“Halloo, sir!” said he to one of the men, “what horse have you got there?” 
“Kentuck," was the reply. 
"Where was he raised?” asked Mr. Nelson. 
“In Vermont,” replied the hostler, busily carding him down. 
“He's the very likeness of one of my horses," replied Mr. Nelson, “he'd make a splendid span with mine. What do you ask for him?” 
“Can't say exactly," returned the manager, coming up, “he's a great bargain, however.”
"Name your terms,” said Mr. Nelson,” I will buy the horse, if he is to be had for a reasonable sum.”
“I would prefer not to sell him," said Mr. Monroe, “I need him, and if I part with him, I must buy another.”
“The likeness is wonderful," continued Mr. Nelson, caressing the horse. 
“So, so! Red Jacket! Why, I really believe the horse fancies me.”
“He is quite fond of being noticed, sir,” rejoined the manager. 
“What is your price, sir? your price?” asked Mr. Nelson. 
“I couldn't think of parting with him for less than $500,” said Mr. Monroe. 
“Done! it's a bargain!” replied Mr. Nelson, little dreaming that he was paying one of his slave's wages. 
Jehu roared when he learned of the sale. “Ole mass'r's a fool! What he say when he find out de joke?” 
“The $500 is yours, Jehu," said Mr. Monroe. “I will keep it for you till we get North, and then put it out at interest, you understand.  Every year it will gain you thirty dollars, and every third year you will have about a hundred dollars more added to the five hundred.”
“Vill?” exclaimed Jehu, in well-pleased amazement, ”dat is’sprising!” Advertisements had already appeared in the papers that they were going to Petersburg, and thence on to North Carolina; but the Circus performers, as was their wont to cover retreat, moved off in the night in quite a different direction, making their route somewhat difficult at once to follow; and long ere Mr. Nelson discovered the trap into which he had fallen, they were performing in the State of New York.
The type founders have issued a circular to all printers that they have raised the price of printing materials 25 per cent. Paper-makers have raised the price of paper 100 per cent. The reader will see that publishers of newspapers are not likely to become millionaires in a hurry under this state of affairs.
<c06>
LETTER FROM NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS, FEB. 4, 1864. 
Facts relative to the Colored People-Their Number, Intelligence, Character and Wealth-Churches-Schools-Louisiana Natire Guards-Colored Line Officers-Their Conduct-Captains Ingraham and <illegible>- Lewis-Regimental Flag of First Louisiana Regiment-<illegible>  Plazianto and Captain Calloux-Summary of News, polictical and otherwise.
To the Editor of the Liberator:-Knowing that you, as well as the many readers of your paper, take a lively interest in the condition of the freedmen of New Orleans, I pen you these few lines, trusting they may prove of especial benefit to those who may say that the black man, when freed, cannot take care of himself.
The number of free colored people in the city of New Orleans, before the rebellion, and residents thereof, was., as far as I have been enabled to learn, or consultation with the best authorities, about twelve thousand. Since the rebellion, and the occupation of the city by the Federal authorities, this number has increased to nearly three times the original; so that, to-day, in a city once the great Slave Mart of the Southern United States, there are no less than thirty-five thousand free people of color. Of their intelligence and character, I have simply to say, that no people in like circumstances show a brighter record than they. Before the war, the amount of taxable property owned by the free colored people of New Orleans, and on which they paid a yearly tax, was nearly nine millions of dollars: now, in less than two years, this annual tax is no property estimated at over ten millions of dollars. Marvellous progress! And, this, too, by a people, two thirds of whom have been free only within the last two years! Wendell Phillips truly says, “The negro knows what land <illegible> with him liberty is never seen, except standing on the pedestal of an acre.” There are eight colored Protestant churches in this city, each having a congregation of one thousand and upwards. A large number of the colored people are Catholics, and, of course, attend the numerous cathedrals in the city. St. James, an A.M.E. Church, is the most fashionable, and has the most talented preacher of any of the colored churches in this city. Its pastor is the Rev. W.A. Dove, of New York city, a gentleman calculated to do a vast deal of good in his present interesting field of labor. This Church is just now engaged with the parishes of others, in getting up a Fair for the Colored Union Central Committee, who have extended to the distinguished Frederick Douglass an invitation to come here, and address them. Dr. Rogers, the Secretary of the aforementioned Central Committee, one of the wealthiest and most intelligent colored gentlemen of this city, informs me that, if Mr. Douglass comes here, he will meet with a reception such as is seldom accorded to few public men in this country. I believe him; for as well as I have been enabled to judge of an entire unanimity of feeling among the colored people here, I am Confident they will turn out <illegible> masse to give Mr. Douglass a grand and glorious greeting.
Government has established some four or five public schools, for the instruction of the lately freed colored children of the city. These schools, under the superintendence of Lieutenant Stickney, of Vermont, are doing well, and promise grand results to the originators.
Of the three Louisiana Native Regiments organized by General Butler while here, the 1st Native Regiment had entirely colored line officers. These gentlemen were well educated, and fully competent for the positions they occupied; but, through the strength of Northern prejudice, many were compelled to resign; and this, too, at a time when they had shown to the world their qualification as leaders and fighting men, after their bloody assault on Port Hudson. Captains Ingraham and Lewis, with their lieutenants, are now the only colored officers in the 1st Louisiana Native Guards. These gentlemen have, in their positions, withstood the repeated and long-continued assaults of prejudice, and to day they have the satisfaction of exhibiting companies better drilled and disciplined than any others in their regiment. Captain Ingraham (whose regiment is now at Port Hudson, and who was in the city a few days ago on business) told me in the course of my conversation with him, that he has had harder work in fighting Northern prejudice, than he ever had in fighting the rebels. This from a man who, by his bravery and daring at Port Hudson, was promoted to the command of the company of Caillaux, at the death of that hero! At the residence of Captain Ingraham I was shown the battle-flag of the 1st Louisiana Native Guards. Riddled as it was with balls, I could plainly see in its silken folds the blood-stains of the brave Anselma Placianto, the color sergeant of the regiment, as he fell, shot through the head by a rebel bullet, holding the dear flag in his arms. Precious memento of negro intrepidity! Captain Caillaux, in the graphic language of Captain Ingraham, was killed while in the act of rallying his men, and the last words uttered by him were, ”Rendezvous, rendezvous, mes braves!”
In accordance with instruction from the Government, Gen. Banks has issued his proclamation for an election of a civil government for this State, on the 22d of this month. Unfortunately, the Union delegates to a nominating convention, held at Lyceum Hall, in this city, 1st inst., split as to their candidates for State officers, and they have now before the people the names of Hons. B. F. Flanders and Michael Haha-both strong Union men-as candidates for the gubernatorial chair. This is to be regretted from the fact, that the free men of color here are very desirous of the rights of suffrage and the elective franchise. They know if the conservative Union men (or Copperheads) elect their candidate, that Louisians, though a free State, will give them no more rights than in the palmy days of slavery; whereas, if a man with strongly union anti-slavery sentiments is elected, they feel confident of having their rights as citizens acknowledged.
Everything is quiet at present in this department; no battle or military movement of much importances having taken place. Gen. Bank’s Banks's last order, termed “General Order No. 23,” in relation to plantation labor, seems to excite general remark. As your readers will have read it ere my letter is published, I forbear comment. 
The weather here for the past week has been very fine; and though the evenings have been cool, with the mercury at 50 degrees Fahrenheit, yet the days have been as warm as any in our New England June.
G.T. RUBY.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
N0. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which  is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER. 
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
M.H. HARDY, 
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No.10, Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between
Oxford and Edinboro' Sts BOSTON.
