<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three Dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 18. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1787.
Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. J. HOLT,
At a Dinner in Charleston, S. C., on the evening of 14th April, 1865.
At a dinner given on the evening of the 14th of April, 1865, at the Charleston Hotel, Charleston, S. C., by Major General Gillmore, to the guests on board of the steamer Arago, invited by the Secretary of War to witness the ceremony of raising the United States flag on Fort Sumter on that day, Major General Anderson having been toasted, in the course of his reply paid a warm tribute to the Secretary of War, Major General Dix, and the Hon. J. Holt, for the support they had given him while in command of that fort; whereupon, being called upon by the guests present, Mr. Holt spoke, in substance, as follows:

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN—
While I am most grateful for the kind words of Major General Anderson, and for the generous reception which has been given to them, I feel little able to speak to you to-night, much as you have encouraged me to do so. As my feet pressed the ruins of Sumter to-day, amid the memories and associations which cluster there, and as I looked out upon its historic surroundings, and upon that magnificent panorama of events which stretches away from its crumbling walls, I experienced emotions too profound for utterance, and was deeply conscious that silence would best express the awe, and wonder, and admiration, and thanksgiving with which I was filled: and so I feel now.
We all thank the President of the United States for that delicate and earnest appreciation of the cravings of the popular heart, which prompted him to order that the flag which four years ago was lowered before an insolent and treacherous foe, should, by the hands of the then gallant commander of that fort, be to-day flung to the breeze, saluted and honored by imposing ceremonies on the part of both the land and naval forces of the republic. It was an epoch, truly a proud epoch, in our lives, to have been privileged to witness this intensely dramatic and poetic triumph of the symbol of our country’s honor and independence. Seen in the light of the gigantic struggle in which the nation has since been engaged, Sumter and its heroic garrison stand transfigured before us, and we realize at once the grandeur of the role they played, and the vastness of the influence which their courage and faithfulness have exerted upon our subsequent history. The cannonades since heard upon more than a hundred fields of battle are but the multiplied echoes of the guns of Sumter, while the brilliant daring, the Spartan fortitude, and the irrepressible enthusiasm which have marked the progress of our conquering army and navy, are but answering pulsations to the sublime spirit that there met and defied the first shock of the rebellion. The wave of war first rolled away from the walls of that fort, and swept on from stronghold to stronghold, and from State to State, ever swelling and surging in its course until, in its gory circuit, it came back to Sumter again, bearing high upon its crest the banner on which we have looked with gladdened eyes to-day: not a star lost, not a glory dimmed—emblematic in its entirety and lustre of the future of our beloved country, as are the blackened and shattered ramparts over which it floated emblematic of the fortunes of the rebellion, whose death-rattle is now heard on the plains of traitorous and desolated Virginia.
I share the satisfaction common to you all that General Anderson, and a part of his command, embracing that loyal and fearless man of God, the then chaplain of Sumter, have been spared to participate in the rejoicings of to-day, and to be with us to-night. Those august ceremonies derived a new grace and dignity from the presence of these well-tried patriots. There is not a brick or stone in those walls which did not speak to us in their praise, while to my vision that glorious old flag, vindicated and redeemed at last, seemed to flutter in the sunlight the more proudly for having been unfurled by him who had so consecrated it by his valor. Of this true soldier I may speak with confidence, as I shall with pleasure, since I had some personal knowledge of his bearing amid the trying scenes to which the celebration in which you have been engaged so distinctly pointed.
In the world’s history it has occasionally happened that wicked statesmen and rulers have made great, and, for themselves, fatal mistakes in the choice of the instruments of their crimes. But of all the blunders of this class which have occurred, probably the most complete, the most disastrous for the plans of him who made it, was that committed by the traitor Floyd, when he selected, then Major, now Major General Anderson to command the forts of Charleston Harbor. This was the more remarkable since Floyd rarely mistook his men, as is sufficiently shown by his assignment of Twiggs to the Department of Texas, and by other appointments and adjustments of the military service, looking to a lubrication of the machinery of the rebellion, on which I will not pause to comment. Great too have been the surprise and terror of these wicked rulers, when they have found their trusted instruments failing in their hands; but perhaps few of these exhibitions have equalled that which was witnessed at Washington when the unfaltering fidelity of Major Anderson and his little command was first fully manifested. When intelligence reached the Capital, that by a bold and dexterous movement this command had been transferred from Moultrie to Sumter, and was safe from the disabled guns left behind, the emotions of Floyd were absolutely uncontrollable—emotions of mingled mortification and anguish and rage and panic. His fury seemed that of some baffled fiend, who discovers suddenly opening at his own feet the gulf of ruin which he had been preparing for another. Over all the details of this passionate outburst of a conspirator, caught and entangled in his own toils, the veil of official secrecy still hangs, and it may be that history will never be privileged to transfer this memorable scene to its pages. There is one, however, whose absence to-day we have all deplored, and to whom the nation is grateful for the masterly ability and lion-like courage with which he has fought this rebellion in all the vicissitudes of its career—your Secretary of War—who, were he here, could bear testimony to the truthfulness of my words. He looked upon that scene, and the country needs not now to be told that he looked upon it with scorn and defiance.
With all that the garrison at Sumter endured, you must be familiar. Uncheered, beleagured, without provisions or adequate munitions of war, taunted and threatened by day and by night, they were compelled to witness from hour to hour the construction of a girdle of batteries, slowing rising and pointing their guns on the fort, without the authority on the part of its brave inmates to lift a hand to resent these insults, or to resist these deliberate and formidable preparations for their destruction. When, however, the conflict came, and the blood of this handful of soldiers was demanded as a cement for the
<C02>
Southern Confederacy, then the country sprang like a giant from its lethargy, and was at once filled with impulses and purposes as grand as they were irrepressible. But while the nation rushed almost en masse to meet the enemy, it must be confessed that it did so with but dim and imperfect perceptions of the field of duty that was opening before it. When, however, the progress of events unmasked the true character of the rebellion, and laid bare in all their ghastliness its inherent barbarisms and atrocities, as well as its ultimate aims, gradually at first, but rapidly at last, light was poured upon the national mind and conscience, as the timid dawn kindles blazingly into day; and now, the whole land, in council and in the field, has, as under a resistless inspiration from on high, seized the clanking fetter of the slave, and the bloody lash of his driver, and has flung them scornfully full into the face of the rebellion.
In answer to the graceful and generous compliment of our friend Major General Anderson, permit me to say, that from the first moment this conspiracy disclosed its cloven foot in the Capital until now, I have never doubted of my own duty; and had the entire race of man confronted me on the question, my convictions in regard to that duty would not have been the less complete. Nor did I ever doubt of the final success of the Government in putting the accursed rebellion under its feet, —though I knew not how long we might be fated to toil, to suffer, to bleed, and to die on fields of battle and in the loathsome prisons of the South; still the assurance has never forsaken me, that sooner or later, when purged of our national sins, we would be accepted of Him, in whose hands are the issues of all our plans and of all our yearnings. For weary months and years His face seemed hidden from us, and though the land was furrowed with graves, our standard stood still. But now that, under the leadership of your true-hearted Chief Magistrate, the country has made a sincere and earnest endeavor to purify itself from this great transgression against the cause of human freedom, the cloud has been dissipated, and that face, so long hidden, is looking down upon us, through the startling events of the last few weeks, with a smile in its brightness above the sun shining in his strength. In these events, so entrancing for us all, and in those which must rapidly follow, may be found proof well nigh conclusive that the republic which was born on the 4th day of July, 1776, was born not for death, but for immortality; and that though its bosom may be scarred by the poignards of conspirators, and though its blood may be required to flow on many fields, yet that neither the swords nor the bayonets of traitors can ever reach the seat of its great and exhaustless life.
While in these events there is ground for boundless gratitude to the Father of all us, and to our unconquerable armies and navy, there is also ground for boundless rejoicing and exultation. We exult in no unhallowed or merciless spirit. Before Him who sitteth on the circle of eternity, we bow our heads in adoring thankfulness, for these proofs that he still rules among the children of men, and that we are still the people of his care; but before the world we exult and shout aloud for joy—joy with a thousand tongues and a thousand songs—that this rebellion, with all its crimes, with all its fetid and pustulous baseness, is at length being trodden down— down to the hell from which it came. We accept this as evidence that the demon of all evil seen in the apocalyptic vision in chains, has not yet broken his fetters, and the ruined fortresses and devastated cities of the rebellion, its palaces and homes in ashes, its people exhausted and impoverished, we hail these as the footprints of Him who dwelleth among the seraphim, and who hath said: “Vengeance is mine —I will repay.” Woe to that people who, under the promptings of a charlatan humanity, shall presumptuously throw themselves between that vengeance and its victims!
Victory is often attended with dangers for the victors, quite as great as those that marked the battle, though of a totally different character. The crisis which the American people are now approaching cannot fail to present these dangers as belonging to those all-absorbing questions which must arise on the overthrow and dispersion of the rebel armies. The triumph which is being achieved by the republic is not one of mere material forces, but it is the triumph of truth, of justice, of honor, of loyalty, of freedom, and of civilization itself, and the very airs which kiss our flag are luminous with the moral glories which are inseparable from these victories. From every church and praying household, aye, and from every devout heart in the land, a continual prayer should go up that the fruits of this prolonged and sanguinary conflict may not be suffered to perish, and that nothing may be done to abate the moral grandeur of the sacrifices which have been made, or to fling contempt upon the memories of those martyred armies which have so nobly died that liberty might live. But if the work is to pause while treason is only scotched, not killed; if the knife is to be stayed while there remains a single root of that cancer of slavery which has been eating into the national vitals, then in vain shall we have expended thousands of millions of treasure, and in vain will the country have offered on the red altars of war the bravest of its sons. It is the duty of the Government, not by words, for they are already found in our Constitution and laws, but it is its duty by stern and implacable action to stamp upon this monstrous crime against our national life, and upon the parricides who have committed it, the brand of an undying infamy—an infamy so black and loathsome that the generation to which we belong shall shrink from it with horror, and those which are to follow us will recall it with a shudder. Let us beware, lest under the impulses of a miscalled magnanimity, we impiously assume to be wiser than God in claiming that crime can be repressed without punishment.
Let it then be our fond and solemn trust that the Government will maintain to end the position which it has occupied from the beginning—that this is, in very deed, a war upon crime and criminals— criminals with whom we cannot fraternize, with whom we can make no compromises, without, in the judgment of mankind, and at the bar of history, becoming criminals ourselves; without giving an absolute respectability and a new growth to the sentiment of treason in the South, and turning loose in these distracted States a band of unwhipped male factors, with their hands filled with the seeds of another rebellion, to be by them scattered and planted at their will. As for the masses, the ignorant, deluded masses, who have blindly followed the standard of this revolt, let there be full and free pardon, if you will, on their sincere return to their allegiance; though it does seem to me that it would be but decent to allow these thrice guilty rebels a little time in which to wash the blood of our brothers from their hands before we hasten to offer them our own. But as for the original conspirators and leaders, who, through long years, in the Capitol, in the cabinet, and in the army too, deliberately prepared this rebellion; who, without the pretence of wrong or provocation, traitorously set it on foot; who have pressed it forward with all the malignity of fiends, and with all the cowardly, revolting cruelty of sava-
<c03>
ges; who, through perjury, and rapine, and arson, and butchery, have made our once happy country one great house of mourning, and from whose skirts, in the sight of the Eternal, there is now dripping the blood of near half a million of our people—for these miscreants, the Iscariots of the human race, may God in His eternal justice forbid that there should ever be shown mercy or forbearance!
You must well remember that while Sumter was besieged, and daily threatened with bombardment, rebel commissioners went up from this city—the political Sodom from which all our sorrows have come —to Washington. They were sent to announce to the Government of the United States the terms on which it could have peace with the slave aristocracy of the South, and they went with all the hauteur and insolence of the Roman ambassadors of old, who claimed to carry the destinies of nations in the folds of their robes. It was a long and weary time before your excellent President was able to organize a commission responsive to this. Great was his embarrassment in finding the right men, and when found great was his embarrassment still in getting them into the right places. At length, however, he succeeded in constituting the commission, and for a good while these peace commissioners, with all necessary credentials and plenary powers, have in a most becoming manner and with entire success been treating with the public enemy throughout the South. Though these commissioners are well known to you, it may not be invidious or improper for me to name a part of them. They are Grant, and Sherman, and Sheridan, and Farragut, and our noble host who sits at my right, Major Gen. Gillmore—God bless him!—and a long line of illustrious commanders, who, on many hard fought fields, and in “the imminent deadly breach,” have displayed those lofty qualities of courage and incorruptible loyalty, which must crown this generation of our people with an imperishable halo. More unselfish, more patriotic commissioners never set out in pursuit of a nation’s peace. Rest assured that the work which they are doing will be well done. The peace which they shall make will not be a wretched hollow truce, patched up between cowards on the one hand and traitors on the other, and which, based on the shattered fragments of our dismembered country, would be broken by the first whipped slave, who, escaping from his master, should seek an asylum on the soil of the free. No, the peace they are conquering will be negotiated on the field of battle amid the triumph of our arms, and with the Stars and Stripes streaming as a meteor over the heads of the commissioners. Such a peace, and such only, will endure, because it will rest, not on the perfidious promises of red-handed conspirators, but on the broken swords and dismantled fortresses of the rebellion.
Such a peace as must follow from the overthrow of the military power of the rebellion being secured, the obligation will then press upon the nation, not only to strike the last fetter from the limbs of the last slave, but also to see that guarantees are created against the re-establishment of slavery, through some cunningly devised system of tutelage, which, enforced by State law, would entail upon this oppressed race the same ignorance, and poverty, and social and political disfranchisement to which they have heretofore been subjected. That the lingering sentiment of disloyalty in the South, added to ancient prejudices, and to the treacherous and savage instincts known to be inspired by this institution, will, under a changed nomenclature, seek to accomplish this result, can scarcely be doubted. Upon the solution of this momentous question of reconstruction, the American people can well afford to wait, and it is their duty to wait, lest by precipitation false steps should be taken which could never be retrieved. There should be the utmost patience and circumspection, but no haste. The country wants no more traitors in the Capital, and no more State governments into whose organizations the spirit of treason has been breathed. If a loyal population cannot be found to put the machinery of State government into operation, then let us wait and see if the next will not be a wiser and better generation. In the meanwhile, let these former States be subjected to military rule. They constitute part and parcel of the territory of the republic, and no apology is to be made for holding and governing them as such. While the ballot-box is the rightful source of authority over loyal men, the legitimate and reliable foundation for the authority of the Government over traitors is the sword.
With peace, restored, and with the duties it must impose performed, upward towards Him who, from the counsels of eternity, hath declared that “the laborer is worthy of his hire,” we may turn our eyes, and in humble confidence invoke his blessing; because through carnage and sacrifices of every kind we shall at last have had the courage to do unto others as we would have them do unto us, and shall have lifted up to the high plane of our own Christian civilization and political rights millions of human beings on whom the wrongs and sorrows of centuries have been pressing. Then, too, we will be able to look the nations of the earth in the face without a blush, because we shall have faithfully acquitted ourselves of the solemn trust that humanity has committed to our hands, and by restoring the republic, in despite of all the power and crimes of the enemies within its bosom, we will have afforded a demonstration of the capacity of our race for self-government, transcending far in its impressiveness even that furnished by our fathers in founding our institutions. On this issue of this struggle have been staked, as I verily believe, the concentrated fruits of the battles for free government in all ages and climes of the world, and we shall have preserved them; and this extended land, which, in its soil and climate, in its rivers and lakes and mountain ranges, seems to have been fashioned by the hand of the Almighty as a temporal paradise for his people, we shall proudly present to the nations of the earth as no longer disfigured and degraded by the mockery of institutions which, while claiming to be free, rest their foundations on the enormities and spoils of servitude. And then, both on land and ocean, and upward to the sky, our national anthem will rise, mounting higher and higher, and swelling grander and grander, and growing yet wilder and wilder in its exultant strains, because, for the first time in our national history, these strains will be unmingled with the moan of human bondage.
And then, my countrymen, with your starry banner, undimmed and untorn, and floating on every breeze from Maine to the Gulf, and from the Atlantic to the Sierra Nevada and the shores of the Pacific, the republic, redeemed from this cankering curse of slavery and from the machinations of its conspirators, regenerated and purified by the struggle through which it has passed, and ennobled by a sense of duty performed, will rebound from the blow it has received, and will enter upon a career of prosperity, of freedom, of national greatness, so vast, so far-reaching, that in the distant centuries to come, amid the grandeur of its power and the unclouded splendors of its renown, even this mighty conflict, with all its agonies and its triumphs, may be forgotten, or, if recalled, only as a dim and almost unremembered event in the sublime history of the past.
<c04>
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Abraham Lincoln was born in Hardin County, Kentucky, on the 12th of Februry, 1809. The story of his early life is one of the hardships and trials, the energy and perseverance, so well developed by the difficulties of the frontier. At the age of seven years he began his school life with the Bible and a copy of Dilworth’s spelling book, —good tools in the hands of an earnest soul. Thomas Lincoln, his father, dissatisfied with the prospect held out to a man of moderate means in a slave State, removed with his family to Indiana in 1817. There, also, all was a new country, and the last eighteen miles of their journey to Spencer County had to be literally cut through the woods. Father and son built with their own hands a log cabin, and lived there twelve years. Abraham Lincoln’s mother, who seems to have given him the rudiments of that sturdy moral strength afterwards so conspicuous in his character, died when he was ten years old. The son continued his efforts for an education at the cabin of one of the settlers, and in his rough backwoods costume began arithmetic, and eagerly read such books as fell in his way. At nineteen years of age he had an adventurous flatboat voyage to New Orleans, in the course of which he encountered and overcame, with the boat’s crew, a marauding party of seven negroes. In 1830, the family again removed to Illinois, and Abraham, now twenty-one, aided his father in fencing in and planting the new farm, before entering into service on his own account. It was for that fence that he split the rails which as an honorable symbol of free labor have become historical, and at one time rail-splitting furnished him, as it did most other frontier men, constant employment. Our space will not allow us to recount the successive steps by which the young pioneer fought his way into the respect and confidence of his fellows. He was fertile in resources, quick of perception, never discouraged, and lost no honorable chance to better his condition. In the Black Hawk war his hardy bravery pointed him out as a fit man for a captain, and two years afterward, in 1834, he was elected to the Legislature. After three years’ service in the political field, he began the practice of law, a knowledge of which he had acquired while serving as a clerk in a store, or guiding his flatboat down the river. For six years he continued his legal studies and practice with uniform and remarkable success. It was at that time that he acquired the art of putting facts which he wanted to express into language,—plain and homely indeed,—but the meaning of which no man could mistake. In 1844, Mr. Lincoln was recognized as one of the leading politicians of Illinois, and stumped the State during the presidential campaign. In 1847, he served his first term in Congress, where his course was somewhat in advance of the general position of the Whig party. It will be remembered that while he would not neglect the soldiers in the field, nor withhold from them supplies, he refused to acknowledge the justice of the Mexican war. He urged the abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia, and advocated stringent measures against the slave trade; he voted, as he said, more than forty times for the Wilmot Proviso, in whatever form it came up, and placed his name on record as a consistent and earnest opponent of the aggressions of slavery. He was a member of the national convention that nominated Zachary Taylor, in 1848, and was defeated as a candidate for the United States Senate the next year.
During the time when the vexed question of Kansas and Nebraska occupied the public attention, Mr. Lincoln was true to his record, and as he had opportunity opposed his plain good sense and honest speech to the sophistries of his opponents. At the national republican convention which nominated John C. Fremont, Mr. Lincoln received one hundred and eleven votes for Vice-President. In 1858, he was nominated again for the Senate, and then took place the memorable debates between himself and Stephen A. Douglas,—debates in which all the mental characteristics of the statesman of the backwoods were brought out, and displayed to the best advantage. The reader of those debates will not fail to observe how a clear perception, strong good sense, and unwavering truth were more than a match for adroitness and skill of fence. Mr. Lincoln lost the election to the Senate, but he really won the victory with the people. In 1860 he made that celebrated speech at New York city which so admirably discussed the questions at issue before the country, and made him the second choice of New York for the Presidency.
In the republican convention at Chicago, which followed soon after, Mr. Lincoln was nominated for the Presidency on the third ballot, and in the election received the electoral vote of every free State except New Jersey.
South Carolina passed the act of secession on the 20th of December; Mississippi, January 9th; Alabama and Florida, January 11th; Louisiana on the 26th, and Texas on the 5th of February. On the 4th of February, Jefferson Davis was elected President, and A. H. Stephens Vice-President of the States in revolt, and they were inaugurated on the 18th. Recruiting commenced at once in the Southern States, a military of one hundred thousand men was organized, and all the machinery of rebellion set on foot before the new President could declare his policy or exercise his power. Mr. Lincoln left Springfield, Illinois, on February 11th, and on his way to the capital foreshadowed the course of his administration in a series of speeches made at the chief places along his route. It is said that his assassination was plotted at Baltimore, but he evaded the murderers then by taking an earlier train.
We all remember the tone of the President’s inaugural, its mingled pathos and persuasion; and the iron firmness as well, which was couched under this honest intent and kindly phrase. On the 12th of April, Sumter was fired on. Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation calling out seventy-five thousand men, and assembling Congress, was issued three days after. The ports of the rebellions States were declared under a blockade on April 19th, and on the 17th of May Virginia followed her sister States into secession. On the 22d of September, 1862, Mr. Lincoln issued his preliminary proclamation of emancipation, which made free all slaves whose masters should be in revolt on the first day of January, 1863; and on the latter date he issued a second proclamation, confirming and completing the design of the first.
We need not here repeat the more recent official acts of President Lincoln. The world has witnessed his unwearied patience, his overflowing kindness, his utter lack of any passion or sentiment of revenge against those who were seeking his ruin and that of the nation. Neither bitter invective nor vile abuse moved him from the path of duty; and he went from the council chamber, where his solicitude had been expressed as to how he could best forgive his enemies, to meet death at the hand of the assassin.
President Johnson recently said—“MERCY HAS BEEN SLAIN. LET US NOW TAKE CARE THAT JUSTICE IS NOT SLAIN ALSO.”
<c05>
SPEECH OF PRESIDENT JOHNSON.
A Committee of the Union League of New York waited upon the President Thursday. In reply to their address, Mr. Johnson spoke as follows:
“Gentlemen: In reply to you, and through you to the organization which you represent, I can only say, as I have said to others, that your encouragement is peculiarly appropriate at this time. I have been thrown into the position I now occupy by circumstances that you are all familiar with. There has been a great deal done. There is a great deal to do of a complex and difficult character. The circumstances which have occurred are saddening to us all, and no one appreciates them more deeply than I do. But just the other day, our President was in the midst of life and the confidence of his countrymen. Now he has been removed to that bourne whence no traveller returns. Under these circumstances, I am called to occupy a post of peculiar peril. When we look at the past, and then turn and try to understand the future, we see how much I need the encouragement which you tender in behalf of those you represent; and if I know myself, I am profoundly grateful for it, and return you my hearty thanks. You have referred to my past, history and my connection with this rebellion. In reference to that, I can only say that the policy which I have indicated heretofore will be my guide in the future. The idea that justice shall be observed is one that has strongly impressed me, and I must be permitted to remark that the time has come when the nature of crime should be understood in this country, and that, too, by the great mass of the people. We have definitions of crime in the law books, and penalties are affixed to them. We know that perjury is a crime, that arson is a crime. We know, too, that murder is a crime. All these are crimes, and have penalties affixed. When we look at the present murder, the present assassination, and trace it back to its source, no one can be mistaken as to the spirit from which it emanated. There is no one but would say, in reference to the individual who has perpetrated this infamous this diabolical, this barbarous act, that he must suffer the penalty annexed to the offence; then if you would say this, that the assassin of a single individual, the murderer of a single man, must suffer the penalty of death, what should be inflicted upon him who tries to assassinate a nation, and take away its life? We must consider the nature of the crime and the demands of justice, and not the misery, woe or sin of the individual who is guilty; we must look at it in the exercise of stern, inflexible justice. The time has come for us to understand that treason is the highest of crimes—in other words, that all crimes are submerged in treason, and he who has committed treason has committed all crimes. Please accept my thanks, gentlemen, for the encouragement you have given me, and the aid you offer, though the task may be difficult. I appreciate it with an honest and sincere reliance on that power whose guidance in this struggle is so manifest to us all. No one can doubt that an overruling Providence has controlled the destinies of this country. We may talk of the ability of men, but the progress of this rebellion has shown that they are only instruments in the hands of God. If I know the honest impulses of my heart, when the time comes to act upon measures that come before me, though I may not have the same ability and talent as some, if a hearty obedience to conscientious conviction is worth anything in the administion of the government, you shall have it. I thank you again, gentlemen, for what you have said, and trust you will bear my thanks to the organization you represent.”

SOUTHERN REFUGEES.
Mr. W. B. Fleming, B. A., of Oakville, writes to a contemporary, expressing his astonishment at a statement in the Globe of Monday, relative to the demonstration of approval with which the news of Mr. Lincoln’s assassination was received by certain Southern refugees in Toronto. We beg to repeat the statement to which Mr. Fleming refers, and to assure him that it is literally true: “It caused a thrill of horror in this city when it was made known that Southern refugees assembled in our chief hotel, as soon as the deed was known early on Saturday morning, and entered upon a noisy debauch in honor of the event, and that a clergyman among them said publicly at the breakfast table at the same hotel that Lincoln had only gone to h-l a little before his time.” These facts are well known in Toronto, and nobody here thinks of disputing them. Even the Southern organ has been careful not to deny them. Mr. Fleming, however, having “ read with knowledge,” rushes to the defence. He says that, even if the statement about the debauch were true of some thoughtless young man over his cups, it is an outrage to hold the whole body of Southern refugees, or, indeed, any part of the thoughtful and sober, responsible for such sentiments. The statement is true of several men: “thoughtless” they certainly were, or they would have known enough to conceal “such sentiments.” We hold nobody responsible for the exultation over President Lincoln’s assassination but those who were guilty of that outrage. We are willing even to say that some refugees would not have committed such an offence against decency as to give public expression to feelings so atrocious. But the reflection immediately follows, that “ sober and thoughtful” men are not so numerous among the Southern refugees in Toronto as they ought to be. Ordinarily we look for such qualities in clergymen; but a man has been found among the refugees to degrade a sacred calling, by using language so blasphemous and atrocious that all good men must shudder to hear it.
Mr. Fleming arrived in Toronto on Saturday morning—after the debauch at the hotel was over, of course—and, consequently, is unable to give any evidence respecting it that can be of the slightest value. Nevertheless, he pretends that, in speaking of it, he knows whereof he affirms. He met, he says, a number of his Southern friends in Toronto, and found that “all thoughtful and sensible men among them fully concurred with me in the belief, that the assassination of the late President of the United States was a public calamity both to the North and the South.” Mr. Fleming is a B. A., of Toronto University, and may be supposed to be capable of saying what he means when he writes a letter. We are, therefore, entitled to take the above as it is written, and to inquire why, having given us the opinions of the thoughtful and sensible among the Southern friends, he suppressed the sentiments of the rest? Was it because, if he had put into his letter the opinions which he heard from those of his Southern friends whom he considered not “thoughtful and sensible,” he would have corroborated and justified the statement of the Globe, that Southern refugees in Toronto rejoiced over the assassination of Mr. Lincoln? What proportion of his Southern friends were “thoughtful and sensible,” and what proportion of the opposite character? After this very plain confession, that only a part of his Southern friends regarded Mr. Lincoln’s
<c06>
assassination as “a public calamity both to the North and the South,” we must confess to some astonishment at the impudence which Mr. Fleming exhibits in writing his letter contradicting the correct statement we made.
When the horrible news was first received in Toronto, expressions of joy were heard from Southern refugees in other quarters than those of which we have spoken, and plenty of witnesses of the fact can be obtained if needed. In a short time, however, it was found that the expression of such sentiments was exciting too much indignation among Canadians of all parties, pro-Southern as well as pro-Northern, and the jubilant refugees began to hark back. They began to express great regret at the dreadful news from Washington; but such simulated feelings are no atonement for the first barbarous expressions of joy, and deceive none but those who wish to be deceived.
Mr. Fleming accuses us of “pursuing with relentless hatred the few Southern residents left in the city of Toronto,” and of being “eager to expose those to public indignation who have not rendered themselves obnoxious to any charge.” This is not true. The Southern refugees who have conducted themselves properly during their residence here, have never received a word of censure from us. But those who have behaved improperly—and their number is far larger than their apologists are willing to admit—have no claims to our forbearance. When a ruffian among them assaults a lady in the street, simply because her husband has done his duty as a magistrate—when Southern ruffians drive men from places of public amusements, simply because they are Americans, or hunt men through the streets for the same cause—when they disgrace our courts by unseemly demonstrations—we take the liberty of speaking of their acts as they deserve.
We cannot find any reason for giving the large measure of sympathy which is claimed for people who have done us so much mischief since they have been among us. They have abused the asylum afforded them by plotting and executing raids into the United States. They have thereby involved us in a world of trouble and vast expense. Not satisfied with the evil resulting to us from the St Albans raids, they have had during the whole winter a scheme in progress to fit out from a Canadian port a vessel armed and equipped for the work of destroying American vessels upon the lakes. It is but a few days since arms and other warlike stores were found concealed in the house of one of these refugees in Toronto. If their plots could succeed, they would involve us in further expense and further trouble with our neighbors. When we know that Southern refugees are engaged in such mischief, we do not feel bound to wait till evidence is obtained implicating every Southern resident in the city, before we denounce their vile plottings. We wish no harm to those who are innocent, and entertain no sympathy for those who are guilty.—Montreal Globe.

GENERAL LEE
Those persons who fondly and foolishly fancied that General Robert E. Lee was a character higher and nobler and more sensible than his master, Davis, will have been undeceived by the tenor of his farewell letter to the army which he surrendered to General Grant.
It was reported by some of the journals, and believed by some credulous minds, that Lee had seen the futility of further fighting, and was ready now to return to good citizenship and forswear rebellion. There was, until a week ago, a desire with some to condone treason and the desertion of his flag, in this person, and to forgive his offences.
But the letter in question shows him as bitter and graceless a traitor as Davis himself. He congratulates the rebel soldiery that their conduct has “endeared them to their countrymen,” and he bids them farewell “with increasing admiration of their constancy and devotion to their country,” and bids them take with them “the satisfaction that proceeds from the consequences of duty faithfully performed.”
With this slap in the face to loyal soldiers, General Robert E. Lee retires from the field, as unrepentant and as foolishly defiant a rebel as his master Davis. To admire bravery, even if exerted in a bad cause, is natural and allowable; but this rebel general, this deserter from the old flag, who ran away with a lie in his mouth, and entered the general service of the Confederate army when he had promised his sister to serve only his State—this person cannot refrain, even when he has given up the contest as hopeless, to blurt out his treason, and to use his influence over the army which he had surrendered, to rouse them to new rebellion and justify future insurrections. If any loyal man began latterly, on false reports, to think well of this Lee, he has now, in the letter from which we have quoted, the materials for a revision of his judgment.
But why should we think better of Lee than of Davis, or Benjamin, or Hunter? What has he done for us, or omitted to do against us, which makes him a better man than his base coadjutors? It is urged in his favor, by his friends, that he was the tool of Davis and the other Confederate leaders—but he was a most willing tool. In 1861 he was serving on the staff of the General-in-Chief of the United States army; he had peculiar opportunities, by his position, to learn all the plans of his commander, and the resources of the army. He remained long enough to get the fullest information, and then he deserted to the enemies of his country, and carried with him his valuable knowledge of the plans and intentions of the government he had left. Certainly this treachery of Lee was as base and mean as that of any man in this rebellion. That he deserted his flag with pretences of the profoundest grief, and betrayed his country with Pecksniffian sighs and groans, does not, we imagine, raise him in the opinion of honorable men and women.
Nor let us forget that this General Lee, so influential in the South that his suggestions were of greater effect than Davis’s commands— this Lee who had only to say what he wanted, and it was done, had his headquarters within sight of the horrible prison of Belle Isle, where brave Union soldiers, his prisoners of war, were rotting like sheep, crowding together in ditches to keep their blood stirring, killing rats, cats and dogs to appease their hunger, and dying daily under Lee’s very eyes of starvation. He was so near them that, on a still night, he might have heard their dismal groans; he knew their horrible condition, for he read the New York papers, in which their suffering were published; he was all powerful, and had only to speak to have our brothers fed and clothed—and he said no word. Is it our part to think kindly of this cruel wretch, who, during the three years that he held high command and almost supreme authority in the South, never raised his finger to save Union soldiers from the most savage and barbarous usage, and most cruel and terrible deaths? Whoever dares to treat this man as anything but the unhanged traitor that he is, ought to be haunted through life by the miserable spectres that were let out from Richmond into the free air, only to die.—N. Y. Evening Post.

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
A TRIP TO FORT SUMTER, AND THE DOOMED CITY.
BROOKLYN, April 20th, 1864.
“Yonder is old Sumter!” exclaimed one of our passengers. “Is that Fort Sumter?” we inquired-“that dark mound rising out of the water, with a few tall spires in the dim distance beyond it?” Yes; sure enough, it was the old historic spot—the bourne of our pilgrimage—and my heart was in my mouth in an instant. The pilot of our good steamer “Oceanus” turned the bow in towards the bar at six o’clock (of Thursday, the 13th), and we sped away towards the cradle of the rebellion. It is at once its cradle and its grave.
By sunset we were passing slowly in beside Morris Island, a low stretch of sand. Our ship’s company stand silent on the upper deck as we pass Fort Wagner, beneath which lies buried the gallant Shaw. We all uncover our heads to his memory. Just ahead is Sumter—brown, battered, silent, lonely, in the quiet waves. Its broken walls are scarred hideously. Around it on its narrow beach lies a stratum of balls and broken iron several inches deep. No colors wave on its tall staff. As our steamer passes beneath its ruined walls, our two hundred passengers strike up the doxology, and on the still evening air rolls the glorious melody, “Praise God from whom all blessings flow.” The sailors on a gunboat and two monitors take up the strain, and manning the yards pour forth a thundering cheer. As we thread our way through the loyal fleet, we call out from the pilot-house, “General Lee has surrendered!” Then you should have heard them shout! Our band strikes up; other bands catch the infection, and Charleston harbor rings with the “Star-Spangled Banner” and “Rally round the flag.”
At nine o’clock I went ashore with Col. Howard to call on Gen. Saxton. The streets were in gloomy darkness; Pompeii is not more awful in its ruins. No gas works are left, and no lucky man has yet “struck ile” in the doomed city. We groped along over broken pavements, and past houses where the horrid rents of the shell had torn through the fronts, or laid half the roof open to the sky. We found Gen. Saxton quartered on the “Battery,” Charleston’s fashionable promenade, in the deserted mansion of Charles Allston. The air of the courtyard was loaded with the fragrance of roses and the mock orange; but the mansion was stripped from garret to cellar. The Desaussure mansion near by, once the most aristocratic abode in Charleston, is a shattered ruin, with the marble mantels lying in broken fragments on the parlor and the bed room floors. Nearly all the mansions in this once proud part of the guilty city are windowless; many of them roofless. Except a few negroes who have nestled in the deserted chambers, they are tenantless. A few of the slaveholding aristocracy have come back, and taken reluctantly the oath of allegiance to save the remnant of their property. Gen. Saxton says that these once braggart lords of the lash are now the most abject and cringing whipped spaniels who ever fawned for a crust of bread. With the exception of a few blockade-running speculators, who sent their profits abroad for investment, the merchants and planters of Charleston are hopelessly bankrupt. We saw the cashier of the Bank of Charleston come up to the Commissary’s door, and receive his pittance of bread and rice for his daily food, just as the refugee negroes were doing a few doors off! We went through Secretary Memminger’s deserted and once splendid mansion; the remaining contraband in the desolate house told us, “Massa Memminger sent his money over to Europe; he be up in Nort Carolina; he be rich to-day.” A gentleman in Charleston says that he saw on the books of a bank in Havana the sum of $100,000 in gold credited to Jefferson Davis! Governor Aiken told me that if this were so, it must be the gift of friends; for, said he, “Mr. Davis spent all his salary, and is considered poor.” Not only is the Charleston aristocracy bankrupt, but most of them are dead! Gov. Aiken said sadly enough, “Our most wealthy young men enlisted—many of them as privates; they are nearly all dead or in prison. South Carolina has among her whites nobody left but old men and little boys!” Truly, the iron has entered into Charleston’s proud, soul, and she is the most blasted, blighted, broken hearted desolation on the face of this continent. Her cup of misery is filled to the brim. I could not exult over her woeful wretchedness, although I felt that it was not one whit more than her stupendous sin has richly deserved. She has lived on the spoils of her plundered bondmen; now her turn has come for the bondman to dwell in the deserted places of the slaveocrat. Robert Small, the famous negro captain of the steamboat Planter, (who now has a salary of $1,800 as her commander), is able to give bread to half the bank-presidents and brokers of Broad street.
My dear brother, you cannot conceive of the forlorn desolation of Charleston. Just imagine all the banks in Wall street, with all their doors and windows gone—their fronts burst through with shells—their floors covered knee-deep with scattered bankbooks, checks and drafts—and the street in front grown with grass and weeds among the shattered pavements, and you have a fair picture of Broad street and East Bay street, the two commercial thoroughfares of the Palmetto City! The “Secession Hall” in Meeting street, in which the original act of separation was passed, is a charred ruin, hardly one brick left upon another. In St. Michael’s church, a shell broke through the wall back of the pulpit and broke the Commandments which were graven on tablets of stone. The discriminating missile of death spared the three commandments, “Thou shalt not steal—thou shalt not kill—thou shalt not commit adultery.” These were the very precepts that Charleston needed most. In fact, the shells seemed to have a special spite against the churches; and many of those sanctuaries in which the Gospel of Christ was tortured into a defence of oppression are now “left unto them desolate.”
On Saturday morning last, I was standing in front of St. Michael’s church with William Lloyd Garrison. Just then, the band of the 127th Regiment came down Meeting street, playing Old John Brown most superbly. “Only listen to that in Charleston streets!” exclaimed Garrison, and we both broke into tears. I had many such startling and almost incredible surprises during my visit. For example, I stood with Ward Beecher, Garrison, George Thompson, the English Reformer, and Theodore Tilton, beside the grave of John C. Calhoun in St. Phillips’s churchyard. It is a plain brick oblong tomb, covered with a marble slab, and bearing the single word CALHOUN. “There,” said Garrison, ”lies a man whose name is decayed worse than his mouldering form; the one may have a resurrection, the other never! “Several northern shells have fallen and burst close by that tomb! Did none of the bones in that sepulchre rattle when the voice of William Lloyd Garrison was heard at the grave’s mouth?
On that same day I stood beside George Thompson, Senator Wilson and Garrison, in Zion’s church, before 3000 emancipated slaves How gracefully a freedman presented a bouquet of roses to Garrison, and with what eloquent words! How admirably the happy negroes understood and appreciated the finest points in George Thompson’s speech, which was in language as elevated as if spoken in Parliament! How the roof resounded with shouts at the first mention of the name of ABRAHAM LINCOLN! How we all wept when the vast assembly broke forth into the wild African strain, “Roll, Jordan, roll!” It was as if a hundred birds were let loose, and the whole air filled with melody. The audience resolved unanimously to hold the next anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society in Charleston! and Henry Ward Beecher was announced to preach “in this house to-morrow morning!” In the lower room I addressed one thousand well-dressed negro children; and when I inquired, “May I send an invitation to good Abraham Lincoln to come down and visit you?” a thousand little black hands went up with a shout Alas! alas! we knew not that, at that very hour, their beloved benefactor was lying, cold and silent in the East Room at Washington!
Of the thrilling scenes at the flag-raising in Fort Sumter, I have no time or power to write as they deserve. It was the most exciting moment of my life when that flag went up. “Whether in the body or out of the body, I could not tell.” One of the finest things in the pageant was the appearance of Gen. Anderson as he stood at the head of the stairway, and caught is first view of the interior of the fort. He controlled his emotion with much difficulty. He told me afterwards that he never could have recognized the spot; the osier baskets of sand which the rebels, introduced not only metamorphosed the fort, but made it ten-fold stronger than before. Mr. Beecher’s speech reads well. In its delivery it lacked the electricity of an off-hand effort. It was received tamely; but, oh! when the tattered flag-henceforth THE consecrated banner of the Republic -first swung out to the breeze, and began to rise
<c02>
towards the sky, did they not hear our shout to Charleston wharves? Anderson and Gillmore pulled first—then the rope came along to our part of the platform where a dozen of us laid hold “with a will.” “Was not that a good pull for John Bull?” said George Thompson to me as he gave a hearty surge at the rope. When the flag reached the apex, the whole bay thundered with such a volley of cannon from ship and shore, that one might imagine the old battle of the Monitors renewed again. Then we grasped hands, shouted, embraced, and wept for joy. For in the rainbow of those stripes and stars we read the covenant that the deluge of blood was ended, and that the ARK of Freedom had rested at length upon its Ararat.
Before I close this hurried letter, let me state that in company with Messrs. Beecher and George Thompson, I had a full, frank interview with Governor Aiken. He received us cordially. We found him opposed alike to secession and to Lincoln’s emancipation act; he. considers the war ended, and the Confederacy collapsed, as does every Southerner I saw. But he thinks that the pacification and permanent reconstruction of the Union will depend upon two things, viz: the temper of the Northern people and the character of the men sent South to reorganize the chaos. Mr. Beecher replied to him that when the South accepted the old Constitution again as their code, and bowed to its anti-slavery amendment in true loyalty, there was hardly anything that the North would not grant. But, he added, we may insist on “making an example of some of the leaders in treason.” Gov. Aiken is a courteous, kind-hearted gentleman of the old school, but lacks both the brains and the back-bone for a leader in the work of regenerating his native South Carolina. Seven thousand Charlestonians have taken the oath; fifteen obstinate traitors, in butternut uniform, still sit in the old jail with clenched teeth, swearing that they will die before they will forswear their idolized Davis and Disunion. Those fifteen fools are all that remain visible of the vast concourse of jubilant revellers who with demoniac joy tore down the Republic’s ensign four years ago. Its fall was hailed with a carnival of champagne and songs, and reckless revelries. That sacred flag was restored amid such solemn services of prayer and praise that the scene in Sumter may well be styled the grandest religious ceremonial of our time.
Thine ever, T. L. C.
New York Evangelist.

GOLDWIN SMITH ON MR. COBDEN.
Professor Goldwin Smith writes to the Boston Advertiser a warm panegyric upon Mr. Cobden. He says:
“The goodness of Cobden’s heart and the purity of his motives made him not only influential but popular in the House of Commons, with all except the most violent fanatics of the tory party. His eloquence, simple, clear, earnest and genial, flowed from his character as a stream from its spring. He never composed his speeches, but trusted that words would not be wanting to a full mind and a glowing heart. The most peculiar of his intellectual gifts was the perfect simplicity of view, which is likewise characteristic of Adam Smith and of all great economists. He saw things exactly as they were. His modesty in his speeches, writings and conversation, equalled his strength of conviction. His conversation, which was charming, and his letters (a selection of which would be most delightful and instructive) advanced his principles almost as much as his public speeches.
Few of those with whom he held intercourse could fail to venerate, none could fail to love him. He possessed, above all men, the talisman which wins hearts. Johnson said of Burke, that a stranger could not stand by his side for a moment to take shelter from the rain, without discovering that he was a remarkable man. Five minutes’ conversation made you feel that Cobden was a good man.
Judged merely by his public speeches, he might have seemed a man of a single subject, or of a limited class of subjects. But his modesty led him to confine himself in public to questions with which he was specially familiar, and to pay an almost excessive deference to the special knowledge of others on topics to which they had given more attention. Though his education had been limited, he had enlarged his culture as he rose in life, and could talk with interest and intelligence on any theme. This ‘cotton spinner’ was not without a heart for beauty. ‘There are two sublimities,’ he said, ‘in nature; one of rest, the other of motion—the distant Alps and Niagara.’
Whatever there may be sordid in commercial pursuits, it had not touched his nature. No man ever felt a deeper contempt for the pretensions of hoarded wealth. ‘That man,’ he exclaimed, speaking of a covetous and dictatorial millionaire, ‘talks as if his words were shotted with sovereigns; and yet it is not money that deserves respect, but a generous use of it.
His later years were spent (when he was not at tending Parliament) at Dansford, a country-house in a beautiful district near Midhurst, built for him by the gratitude of his political friends on the site of his father’s farm. This was his Caprera; and like Garabaldi’s Caprera, it was the unostentatious centre of one of the great movements of the age. Never was there a more perfect picture than that country-house presented of English family life, of frugal enjoyment, simple hospitality, and the happiness that flows from duty, friendship and affection.
Each Sunday saw Cobden with his family walking by a pretty country path to the village church. Free (as the church of the future will be) from bigotry and sectarianism, he was yet a truly religious man, walking as in the presence of God, and thoroughly valuing the religious character in others. He would scarcely have trusted any one whom he believed to be without a religion.
He was accused by his enemies of being non-English, and of not loving his country. No man ever had a more thoroughly English heart, or loved his country better. But he loved her not as an isolated tyrant, but as a member of the great community of nations, and in just subordination to humanity. He knew that her interests were inextricably blended for the best purposes of Providence with those of her neighbors; that her strength lay, as that of a man among his fellow-men lies, not in her enmities but in her friendships; and that the law of mutual good will, not of mutual hatred, was the one which, as a nation of Christendom, she was bound to obey. Even her military security has been essentially practical by his policy of commercial alliances, which is uniting all the powers of Europe with us in a great confederacy, pledged to defend the common trade.”

THE PEOPLE’S DUTY.
The following from Hon. George Bancroft’s address, commemorative of President Lincoln, comprising, as it does, a significant allusion to Gen Sherman’s blunder, will be read with interest:
“The removal of the cause of the rebellion not only demanded by justice; it is the policy of mercy, making room for a wider clemency; it is the part of order against a chaos of controversy; its success brings with it true reconcilement, a lasting peace, a continuous growth of confidence through an assimilation of the social condition. Here is the fitting expression of the mourning of to-day. And let no lover of his country say that this warning is uncalled for. The cry is delusive that slavery is dead. Even now it is nerving itself for a fresh struggle for continuance. The last winds from the South waft to us the sad intelligence that a man, who had surrounded himself with the glory of the most brilliant and most varied achievements, who but a week ago was named with affectionate pride among the greatest benefactors of his country and the ablest generals of all time, has usurped more than the whole power of the executive, and under the name of peace has revived slavery, and given security and political power to traitors from the Chesapeake to the Bio Grande. Why could he not remember the dying advice of Washington, never to draw the sword but for self-defence or the rights of his country, and when drawn, never to sheath it till its work should be accomplished? And yet from this bad act, which the people with one united voice condemn, no great evil will follow save the shadow on his own fame. The individual, even in the greatness of military glory, sinks into insignificance before the resistless movements in the history of man. No one can turn back or stay the march of Providence. No sentiment of despair may mix with our sorrow. We owe it to the memory of the dead, we owe it to the cause of popular liberty throughout the world, that the sudden crime which has taken the life of the President of the United States shall not produce the least impediment in the smooth course of public affairs.”
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1865.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9th, at 10 o’clock, A.M.
The Executive Committee urge upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society’s existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
The speakers on Tuesday morning will be WENDELL PHILLIPS, GEORGE THOMPSON, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, and Mrs. FRANCES E. HARPER.
The Society will meet for business on Tuesday afternoon, at 3 1-2 o’clock, and probably, also, Wednesday forenoon and afternoon, in the Vestry of the Church.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
C. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

A NEW-BORN ZEAL—WHAT MEANS IT?
We have already briefly given our reasons why we believe the time has come for the dissolution of the American Anti-Slavery Society, as a matter of good sense and self-respect; and, therefore, we shall not only advocate that measure at the approaching anniversary of the Society in New York, but terminate our connection with it on that occasion. In this judgment we are sustained by the almost unanimous conviction of the present Executive Committee of the Society; and we shall take it for granted that those who have been entrusted for so many years with the management of the affairs of the Society, and whose sagacity and wisdom have never yet been impugned or questioned, fairly represent the feelings of those who are entitled to vote upon the question,—at least, until their decision is made to the contrary.
We are none the less satisfied that our judgment is a sensible one from the ludicrous new-born zeal for the continuance of the Society manifested by those who have hitherto not only stood aloof from it—not only been indifferent to its existence—but who have on various occasions expressed themselves contemptuously in regard to it, or its admirably conducted organ the Standard, and sought to divert aid from its treasury, and patronage from the paper. Suddenly, as the “old guard” are retiring in the full belief that the Society has consummated the great object for which it was organized—the abolition of slavery—these new-fledged converts (?) are profoundly impressed with the vast importance of prolonging its existence! Thus, the Commonwealth, of last week, shows its deep concern about it as follows:—
KEEP THE GUN POINTED! We confess a deep regret at the prospective disorganization of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and its subordinate and affiliated associations. Though never “in line,” politically, with their management or operations, we nevertheless have not been unmindful of their great usefulness, not only as giving organized support to numerous speakers, whose paramount duty it was to enlighten the public upon the evils and atrocities of slavery, but as furnishing the palpable fact that so long as the national disgrace continued, a vigorous body of reformers, thoroughly marshalled, equipped and led, would be ever on the alert to denounce and expose it. The moral value of these two principal objects of the organization is beyond all calculation; and it is therefore with sorrow that we hear of the proposition to abandon the work.
Call it the “American Suffrage Society,” or by any other name that will indicate the ultimate purpose of the organization in this new phase of American life, and bid it God-speed in its new and hallowed mission. Surely, the Society can be put to far better use than to allow its history alone to become an incentive to newer and equally imperative advocacies.
As co-workers in the great cause of political and social freedom, we feel that not an instrumentality can now be spared that ever was of service, and least of all the American Anti-Slavery Society. Keep the standard flying—ring out the bugle-note—on to a new charge! and abate no effort till the final victory!
Hinc illac lachrymae! Considering the source whence this comes, we must say that this is the most remark able exhibition of solicitude and “sorrow” we have seen for a long time! And we must add, further, that the Commonwealth is not qualified to give any advice to the American Anti-Slavery Society, or to its Executive Committee, in a case of this kind. It has proved itself too unfair, too unjust, too factious in its course, especially for the past year, to deserve to be listened to for a moment by the members of the Society concerning its operations. There is something ulterior about its assumed anxiety at this juncture.
“Call it the American Suffrage Society” That yields the whole point. Let those who choose form an association for the extension of suffrage, but let not the American Anti-Slavery Society be moulded to any such shape. If a majority of its members shall elect, at its annual meeting next week, to continue it, we shall leave them to manage its affairs as they may think best, trusting nothing will be done in a partisan or divisive spirit
Here is what the Anglo-African—a paper which has never shown any disposition to cooperate with the American Anti-Slavery Society, and which has found pleasure in misrepresenting and abusing both the Standard and Liberator—says in reference to the same matter:—
“We can excuse Sherman and Grant, to some extent, for using some degree of magnanimity towards these rebels; they did not understand with what wretches they were dealing; but we cannot excuse Gerrit Smith who knows them well; least of all can we excuse William Lloyd Garrison and Oliver Johnson, who, after twenty-five or thirty years of intense study of this class, knowing their cruelty, their power of recuperation and their instincts of revenge, would hand over to their tender mercies the half-emancipated negro, on the plea that their own duties to the cause of Anti-Slavery ceased with the abolition of chattel slavery. Let it be understood, however, that we do not quarrel with their giving up. They are the best judges of their ability to do good to the cause of freedom. If they feel that their power in such direction is exhausted, we rather admire the frankness which owns up, and retires from the field. We were of this same opinion some two years ago, and recorded it in Frederick Douglass’s Paper; which, perhaps, brother Oliver Johnson may remember. We said, “they had done their work as iconoclasts, and were not of any worth in the labor of reconstruction.” All that we now find fault with is, the reason they give when they assume that labor to be accomplished, when it is only half done, according to the Constitution of the American Anti- Slavery Society, as is well shown by Wendell Phillips in last week’s Standard. And we trust we may he forgiven for adding, that it is an unfortunate coincidence that they have made the discovery that their work is done, at the very moment that they also find that it no longer pays.”
The low fling contained in the closing sentence of this extract is characteristic of the manners and breeding of its author, Dr. J. McCune Smith. We only notice it as illustrating the animus of certain outsiders, who are impudently assuming to thrust their advice upon a Society from which they stand aloof.
Both the Commonwealth and the Anglo-African find it to their purpose to represent those who believe that the Society may now with dignity and property dissolve, as disposed to withdraw from all effort to place the colored population on a level with the white, in regard to their political rights. The imputation is a base one, and undeserving serious refutation.
<c04>
RETRIBUTION.
The way of the transgressor is hard. J. Wilkes Booth must have found it so. Even from so much as is now known, it fully appears that from his commission of the murder to the close of his earthly life, not a moment was free from physical suffering and torturing anxiety.
The assassin dropped a spur on the stage of Ford’s Theatre immediately after firing the fatal shot. This spur helped to identify the murderer, being recognized at the stable where Booth had hired his horse. But how came the spur to be dropped?
The murderer’s accomplice, Harrold, declares that it caught (another singular coincidence) in the U. S. flag which festooned the President’s box, when Booth jumped from the box on to the stage, and tripping him up, occasioned that fracture of the leg which led to his capture. What must have been the agonies of that ride at full speed for life, every step causing the splinters of the fractured bone to lacerate the surrounding flesh!
This beginning of retribution changed the line of flight at first intended. The fugitives were obliged to go to the house of Dr. Mudge, near Port Tobacco, in Charles Co., Maryland, to have the broken leg attended to. Thence they went (Booth on crutches) to a neighboring swamp, where they lay concealed for several days, seeing their pursuers pass and repass, and anticipating capture every hour. The amount of their alarm may be estimated by the fact that they paid $300 to be ferried across the Potomac by a negro in an old scow. This black man, too, was one of the instruments in identifying and capturing them.
After this, they fell in with a small party of rebels, (one of them a captain, afterwards arrested,) who helped them to cross the Rappahannock. When the pursuers arrived at this point, the ferryman revealed to them the haunt of the rebel captain, and he led them to the murderer’s last hiding-place, the house of John and William Garrett, between Port Royal and Bowling Green, in Caroline Co., Virginia.
The clothes of these fugitives were so stained with mud and dust by the necessary conditions of their vagabond life as to be mistaken for the gray of the Confederate uniform, though really of a different fabric and color. Their appearance was truly wretched. Booth was still on crutches, and his wound must have been constantly growing worse and more painful.
The Garretts thought the new comers very suspicious looking persons, and tried hard to get rid of them. They judiciously refused large offers of hire for their horses, feeling well assured that the horses would not come back. It was thought dangerous to have Booth and Harrold in the house, and they therefore lived and slept (if under the circumstances they could sleep) in the barn; one of the owners meantime watching lest the horses should be stolen. At last came discovery, and the certainty of seizure. The murderer refusing to surrender, and threatening to sacrifice still more lives, he was shot by one of his pursuers, who aimed, he says, at the shoulder, intending to disable, not to kill him. But, either from in accurate aim on Corbett’s part, or, as he thinks, from Booth’s stooping at the moment of the discharge, the ball took place in the back of his head, nearly in the spot where he had shot the President.
This desperate villain had declared his intention not to be taken alive. Here again God arranged his fate otherwise. The shot paralyzed his arms, so that he could not destroy himself, and he lived three hours in great suffering, repeatedly begging those around to kill him. Surely, the way of the transgressor is hard.
Enough is now known of the plan of assassination which was partially accomplished in Washington on the 14th of April, to render it almost certain that its perpetrators, and their accomplices, and their employers, will all be detected and brought to justice. Secretary Stanton tells us that he has evidence that the plot was arranged in Canada and approved at Richmond. If evidence really exists that the Confederate Government had commissioned, and intended to reward, these murderers, it will in due time, no doubt, be spread before the world. But if such evidence reveals a distinct complicity of Jeff. Davis in the affair, the immediate announcement of this fact may assist in effecting the capture of that eminent felon. If he has not yet got out of the country, a large reward offered by the Government for his apprehension as an accomplice in the murder of President Lincoln would greatly increase the chances of his capture. And his escape, if he does effect it, will then be made under circumstances which will prevent his favorable reception by men of honor, character and station in foreign countries, even those who may have been led into partisanship in the Confederate cause. If the evidence shall be found really to justify this step, let warrants be prepared at once for the arrest of Jeff. Davis as an accomplice, before the fact, in that assassination which has thrilled the world with horror. Let him flee (if his escape cannot be prevented) as a fugitive from civil as well as military justice, with the constable as well as the soldier on his track, and with such demonstration of infamy fastened to his name as to make it needful to him to hide that name in obscurity, instead of claiming such credit and consideration as may belong even to a defeated leader.-C.K.W.

28TH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY OF BOSTON.
This Society, which has remained without a Pastor since the death of Theodore Parker, has now chosen Rev. David A. Wasson for its Minister, and he is to be installed on Sunday morning next, the 7th instant, at the Melodeon. Wendell Phillips will assist in the services of installation, and Mr. Wasson will then give his introductory discourse.
The sermon before this Society last Sunday was given by Wendell Phillips, who took for his subject the reasons which made the sustaining of that pulpit peculiarly necessary.
Churches generally, he said, are institutions; and institutions, however indispensable, always tend to become nuisances. They are iron dresses for growing children. An institution, a house for an idea, tends to become a dungeon, and, if continued too long, a charnel house. The effort to establish this Society was to establish a spring instead of a reservoir I consider it to be not an institution but a life. This pulpit has always taught that every man should keep his face turned to the light.
Ten years ago, the churches of this country almost unanimously bore the inscription—No Politics here But what is Politics? The enactment of justice into law. This pulpit has constantly reminded the community of its duties in this department.
This religious Society has upheld the only unfettered pulpit in this city. It established also the first Lyceum which welcomed to its platform both sexes and all colors. It has modified the whole Lyceum system in this country. It has taught the people to think for themselves. But the Lyceum is intellectual only, not religious; and in its Sunday services this Society has done its part to teach the people true religion.
It is hard to lift this country from the despotism of popular opinion; but let us not despair. Even the churches will yet come out of their darkness.-C. K. W.

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in Boston, at the MELODEON, on Wednesday, May 31st, at 10 o’clock, A. M.
Questions of great importance and interest, in relation to the final Abolition of Slavery in the United States, will doubtless come before the Convention. All the old members of it, and all persons interested, re invited to attend.
By order of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R. F. WALLCUT, Secretaries.
SAML. MAY, Jr., Secretaries.
<c05>
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
REMARKS AT THE FUNERAL SERVICES OF THE PRESIDENT, IN CONCORD, APRIL 27, 1865.
BY R. W. EMERSON.
We meet under the gloom of a calamity which darkens down over the minds of good men in all civil society, as the fearful tidings travel over sea, over land, from country to country, like the shadow of an uncalculated eclipse over the planet. Old as history is, and manifold as are to tragedies, I doubt if any death has caused so much pain to mankind as this has caused, or will cause on its announcement; and this, not so much because nations are by modern arts brought so closely together, as because of the mysterious hopes and fears which, in the present day, are connected with the name and institutions of America.
In this country, on Saturday, every one was struck dumb, and saw, at first, only deep below deep, as he meditated on the ghastly blow. And, perhaps, at this hour, when the coffin which contains the dust of the President sets forward on its long march through mourning States, on its way to his home in Illinois’ we might well be silent, and suffer the awful voices of the time to thunder to us. Yes, but that first despair was brief: the man was not so to be mourned. He was the most active and hopeful of men, and his work had not perished; but acclamations of praise for the task he had accomplished burst out into a song of triumph, which even tears, for his death cannot keep down.
The President stood before us a man of the people. He was thoroughly American, had never crossed the sea, had never been spoiled by English insularity or French dissipation; a quite native, aboriginal man, as an acorn from the oak; no aping of foreigners, no frivolous accomplishments, Kentuckian born, working on a farm, a flat boatman, a captain in the Blackhawk war, a country lawyer, a representative in the rural Legislature of Illinois,—on such modest foundations the broad structure of his. fame was laid. How slowly, and yet by happily prepared steps, he came to his place! All of us remember,—it is only a history of five or six years,—the surprise and the disappointment of the country at his first nomination by the Convention at Chicago. Mr. Seward, then in the culmination of his good fame, was the favorite of the Eastern States. And when the new and comparatively unknown name of Lincoln was announced, (notwithstanding the report of the acclamations of that Convention,) we heard the result coldly and sadly. It seemed too rash, on a purely local reputation, to build so grave a trust, in such anxious times; and men naturally talked of the chances in politics as incalculable. But it turned out not to be chance. The profound good opinion which the people of Illinois and the West had conceived of him, and which they had imparted to their colleagues, that they might justify themselves to their constituents at home, was not rash, though they did not begin to know the riches of his worth.
A plain man of the people, an extraordinary for tune attended him. Lord Bacon says, “Manifest virtues procure reputation; occult ones, fortune.” He offered no shining qualities at the first encounter; he did not offend by superiority. He had a face and manner which disarmed suspicion, which inspired confidence, which confirmed good-will. He was a man without vices. He had a strong sense of duty, which it was very easy for him to obey. Then, he had what farmers call a long head; was excellent in working out the sum for himself; in arguing his case, and convincing you fairly and firmly. Then, it turned out that he was a great worker; had prodigious faculty of performance; worked easily. A good worker is so rare; every body has some disabling quality. In a host of young men that start together, and promise so many brilliant leaders for the next age, each fails on trial; one by bad health, one by conceit, or by love of pleasure, or lethargy, or an ugly temper,— each has some disqualifying fault that throws him out of the career. But this man was sound to the core, cheerful, persistent, all right for labor, and liked nothing so well.
Then, he had a vast good nature, which made him tolerant and accessible to all; fair-minded, leaning to the claim of the petitioner; affable, and not sensible to the affliction which the innumerable visits paid to him, when President, would have brought to any one else. And how this good-nature became a noble humanity, in many a tragic scene which the events of the war brought to him, every one will remember; and with what increasing tenderness he dealt, when a whole race was thrown on his compassion! The poor negro said of him, on an impressive occasion, “Massa Linkum am ebery where.”
Then his broad good-humor, running easily into jocular talk, in which he delighted, and in which he excelled, was a rich gift to this wise man. It enabled him to keep his secret; to meet every kind of man, and every rank in society; to take off the edge of the severest decisions; to mask his own purpose, and sound his companion; and to catch with true instinct the temper of every company he addressed. And, more than all, it is to a man of severe labor, in anxious and exhausting crises, the natural restorative, good as sleep, and is the protection of the over-driven brain against rancor and insanity.
He is the author of a multitude of good sayings, so disguised as pleasantries that it is certain they had no reputation at first but as jests; and only later, by the very acceptance and adoption they find in the mouths of millions, turn out to be the wisdom of the hour. I am sure if this man had ruled in a period of less facility of printing, he would have become mythological in a very few years, like Esop or Pilpay, or one of the Seven Wise Masters, by his fables and proverbs. But the weight and penetration of many passages in his letters, messages, and speeches, hidden now by the very closeness of their application to the moment, are destined hereafter to a wide fame. What pregnant definitions; what unerring common sense; what foresight; and, on great occasions, what lofty, and more than national, what humane tone! His brief speech at Gettysburg will not easily be surpassed by words on any recorded occasion. This, and one other American speech, that of John Brown to the court that tried him, and a part of Kossuth’s speech at Birmingham, can only be compared with each other, and with no fourth.
His occupying the chair of State was a triumph of the good sense of mankind, and of the public conscience. This middle-class country had got a middle-class President, at last. Yes, in manners and sympathies, but not in powers, for his powers were superior. This man grew according to the need. His mind mastered the problem of the day; and, as the problem grew, so did his comprehension of it. Rarely was man so fitted to the event. In the midst of fears and jealousies, in the Babel of counsels and parties, this man wrought incessantly with all his might and all his honesty, laboring to find what the people wanted, and how to obtain that. It cannot be said there is any exaggeration of his worth. If ever a man was fairly tested, he was. There was no lack of resistance, nor of slander, nor of ridicule. The times have allowed no State secrets; the nation has been in such ferment, such multitudes had to be trusted, that no secret could be kept. Every door was ajar, and we know all that befel.
Then, what an occasion was the whirlwind of the war! Here was place for no holiday magistrate, no fair-weather sailor; the new pilot was hurried to the helm in a tornado. In four years, of battle-days,—his endurance, his fertility of resources, his magnanimity, were sorely tried, and never found wanting. There, by his courage, his justice, his even temper, his fertile counsel, his humanity, he stood a heroic figure in the centre of a heroic epoch. He is the true history of the American people in his time. Step by step he walked before them; slow with their slowness, quickening his march by theirs; the true representative of this continent; an entirely public man; father of his country, the pulse of twenty mil-
<c06>
lions throbbing in his heart, the thought of their minds articulated by his tongue.
Adam Smith remarks that the axe, which in Honbraken’s portraits of British kings and worthies is engraved under those who have suffered at the block, adds a certain lofty charm to the picture. And who does not see, even in this tragedy so recent, how fast the terror and ruin of the massacre are already burning into glory around the victim? Far happier this fate than to have lived to be wished away; to have watched the decay of his own faculties; to have seen,—perhaps, even he,—the proverbial ingratitude of statesmen; to have seen mean men preferred. Had he not lived long enough to keep the greatest promise that ever man made to his fellow-men,—the practical abolition of slavery? He had seen Tennessee, Missouri and Mary land emancipate their slaves. He had seen Savannah, Charleston and Richmond surrendered; had seen the main army of the rebellion lay down its arms. He had conquered the public opinion of Canada, England and France. Only Washington can compare with him in fortune.
And what if it should turn out, in the unfolding of the web, that he had reached the term; that this heroic deliverer could not longer serve us; that the rebellion had touched its natural conclusion, and what remained to be done required new and uncommitted hands,—a new spirit born out of the ashes of the war; and that Heaven, wishing to show the world a completed benefactor, shall make him serve his country even more by his death than by his life. Nations, like kings, are not good by facility and complaisance. “The kindness of kings consists in justice and strength.” Easy good-nature has been the dangerous foible of the Republic, and it was necessary that its enemies should outrage it. and drive us to unwonted firmness, to secure the salvation of this country in the next ages.
The ancients believed in a serene and beautiful Genius which ruled in the affairs of nations; which, with a slow but stern justice, carried forward the fortunes of certain chosen houses, weeding out single offenders, or offending families, and securing at last the firm prosperity of the favorites of Heaven. It was too narrow a view of the Eternal Nemesis. There is a serene Providence which rules the fate of nations, which makes little account of time, little of one generation or race, makes no account of disasters, conquers alike by what is called victory, thrusts aside enemy and obstruction, crushes everything immoral as inhuman, and obtains the ultimate triumph of the best race by the sacrifice of everything which resists the moral laws of the world. It makes its own instruments, creates the man for the time, trains him in poverty, inspires his genius, and arms him for his task. It has given every race its own talent, and ordains that only that race which combines perfectly with the virtues of all shall endure.

SPEECH OF HON. GEORGE THOMPSON.,
Before the Freedmen of Charleston, (S. C.,) in Zion Church, April 15, 1865.
Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, on being introduced, said:
This is a great day for me, as it is a great day for you. You are joyful, and I am joyful. Your cup runneth over, so does mine. I rejoice because I have remembered you in bonds. As it happened with you when in bonds, I rejoice with you to day, being in freedom as I also am free.
This is a jubilee, a spectacle, on which God and the holy angels, and the spirits of the just made perfect look with approval.
This is an assembly that commands the sympathy of all the wise and good throughout the world. I can scarcely believe it true that I stand upon a platform or pulpit in the city of Charleston, in the State of South Carolina, having before me the inspiring, magnificent spectacle of between three and four persons who but yesterday were things, to-day are men and women. (Cheers.) It is hard to believe that I am at once in the cradle and the grave of treason, secession and slavery. (Cheers.) But yet I believe it is true; for since I came into your city, I have performed all the functions appertaining to a living, working man. I have walked, talked, ate and drunk.
What shall I say to you now that I am here? To me it has been given to see two great, pure, signal, glorious triumphs effected. To me has been given the unspeakable privilege of being a co-laborer with Wilberforce and Clarkson, who led the way in the great struggle for British abolition—the abolition of the infernal slave trade, and its child slavery.
To me, also, it has been given to see their triumph; to see them go up to heaven, presenting at the throne of heavenly grace a million of broken manacles, and Africa redeemed from her English spoiler.
Now it is my privilege to be the co-worker and companion in joy of the Wilberforce of America—William Lloyd Garrison. For thirty years and more my heart has been with you; with you on the plantation, with you on the auction-block, with you in your unrequited toil, with you in your sufferings, separations, and scourgings; and now I am with you in your freedom. (Cheers.) You are no more slaves of these States, for God created all his children free. A little while ago I could say of my own country, but not of this:
“Slaves cannot breathe in England. If their lungs
Inhale our air, that moment they are free.”
Little did I think that on this 15th of April, 1865, I should be able to stand in the centre of the city of Charleston, South Carolina, and say slaves cannot breath in America. They touch this country’s soil, their shackles fall, and they stand redeemed, free forever. (Cheers.)
The excellent member of Congress from Pennsylvania has been talking to you of the future, of what its rights and its duties will be. And it is to me a matter of sincere gratification that you have pleading your cause to-day, and pleading it no less earnestly elsewhere and in the high places of your republic, men of that excellent representative State, Pennsylvania.
My counsel to you would be, co-operate with those excellent men. They want not only to make you personally free, your bodies as well as the fruit of them, but they wish that you should be clothed with the privileges and rights of citizenship.
Now, many objections will be urged to the granting of this right, though it is your right according to the very principles upon which the nationality of this country rests. And though those scruples may be removed and prejudices conquered, that the hands of your friends may be strengthened, see that by your own conduct you justify all that your friends say in reference to your fitness and capacity not only to exercise those rights but, that power which belongs to citizens of the United States. You are citizens. But yesterday you were not even regarded as men. You were human beasts of burden; you were animated, two-legged hoeing machines; you were bought and sold like beasts of burden.
But you are transformed into men and women, equal to the President of the United States, for he is a man and no more, and each of you of the male sex is a man, and no less. Every principle upon which your government was founded, regards you as equally entitled with Abraham Lincoln himself to exercise the rights and privileges of citizenship. Now you have to be obedient to the laws.
And the leading members of Congress are with you. The praying people of the North are with you. This you know. They sought you with their prayers while you were yet slaves, while yet secluded. Since Generals Grant and Sherman and Sheridan and Banks have given them permission to transverse the coast and soil of this country, they have come down to you in the shape of teachers who have been appointed to administer to your temporal and physical wants, and prove that the North is awake, and has put on the garments of repentance, trying to make restitution to you in that they saw the anguish of your souls. God also is with you. He has been rising the storm that has shaken this land; he has directed the whirlwind. He has decreed that, ere yet these States are one, ere

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
yet the Constitution is established in its former extent the slave shall be free, and justice satisfied.
America tried the experiment in 1789 of establishing upon this continent a Government founded upon a compromise of human rights. It founded a Government on complexional differences. It built a temple to liberty, and called upon the world to admire, aye, upon all its tribes but one to enter into it. It shut out one class, and that was your class. There was no place for the negro there. The ordinary term of a human life has gone by. Where is the Union now? Slavery has betrayed and dismembered it.
The old edifice will have at least to be raised upon a popular, more solid, and more enduring foundation. Now is the time. Let the fundamental law upon which this republic shall rise be the immutable law of right. If not, as the first temple has faller, so shall the second. Sound policy, as well as duty, dictates to the people of this country that they should base their union upon a righteous principle.
What is it we who come from Europe ask the people of America to do? What was my cry when I came here more than thirty years ago? Did I come seeking money of the Government? No! My message to the people of this country was simply to loose the sands of wickedness, and to let the oppressed go free. That was my message. Say unto my people, Break every yoke. I said it was for the interest of all to do right.
I have for the last fourteen months and more been travelling over the North. But what a revolution has taken place there<illegible> Thirty years ago, America vomited me out of her mouth. She spewed me forth, and drove me from her shores as a disturber, a firebrand an incendiary.
During the thirty years that have elapsed between my first and last visit, a revolution has taken place at the North. I left the colleges on the side of slavery. I returned, and found the colleges on the side of liberty. I left America when there was but one man in the house of Congress who dared to present an anti-slavery petition. I returned, and found scarce a man in Congress who would not deem himself honored by being selected to present such a petition. I left America with the newspapers of the country and the <illegible> of the country on the side of slavery. I returned, and found the newspapers and literature, the best and most popular works published in the country, on the side of freedom. I find the man who towers the highest in the estimation of the people of the North is the man most earnestly, most sincerely, most uncompromisingly devoted to the cause of freedom, of universal, impartial freedom.
I left America with the government itself on the side of slaver-a slaveholder in the chair, and slave-holders ruling by them in the Senate and House of representatives. Slaveholders had a great representation. Slaveholders governed East and West, North and South. They were not only lords on their own plantations not only rulers of these sunny estates of the South, but absolute tryrants over the whole country. And I was sensible, in fine more sensible of slavery at Washington, than I am now sensible of the existence of slavery at the South.
Instead of Andrew Jackson of Tennessee, a slave-holder, in the chair, I find when the men appointed had to select a Chief Magistrate, they passed over the heads of all the slaveholders of this continent. They did not even select one of the greatest in eloquence, the best versed in political chicanery, but they selected, one of humble origin, born, it is true, in a slave State, but a self- made man in a free State, a rail splitter, a patriot soldier, honest Abraham Lincoln.
All the dominant, overruling elements are enlisted on your side. The great majority of the North have declared solemnly, in National Convention assembled, that slavery has been the cause of this late rebellion. They say it is adverse to republican institutions, and therefore must be utterly and forever abolished on this soil. All the elements to-day are in your favor. Spread your sails, and catch the auspicious breeze! Your President is with you in sympathy, in purpose, in the exercise of those large powers with which he is entrusted. He has spoken the word, and will not be content until that word is incarnated with the freedom of every slave in the United States.

EXPRESSIONS OF THE FREEDMEN.
OFFICE SUP'T OF FREEDMEN', 
HILTON HEAD,S.C., April 22, 1865.}
FRIEND GARRISON- At a meeting of the ”Council of Administration, of held at Mitchellville, yesterday, Resolutions, commemorative of the recent sad assassination of the President, were adopted.
As you will have the people of that town fresh in your memory, it occurred to me that you will be in-treated to see this expression of their feelings, and possibly may deem it not improper to give them a vacant corner in the Liberator.
Regretting that events quite unexpected cut short your Southern visit, and prevented the opportunity we hoped for of seeing you again more at leisure,
I remain, most truly and affectionately, 
Your obedient servant, J.G. DODGE.

RESOLUTIONS
Adopted at a meeting of the ”Council of Administration at Mitchelville, Hilton Head, S.C., April 21,1865.
Whereas, the ”Council of Administration of the town of Mitchelville, on Hilton Head Island, S.C., assembled this 21st day of April, A.D. 1865, having learned of the death of AABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, by the hand of a wicked and murderous assassin seriously affecting the well-being of the nation, and in an especial manner the best interests of the colored people, from whose neck the yoke of bondage has been so recently removed, through the promptings of his truly Christian heart, would improve the occasion for giving utterance to the sad feelings which seek expression in this hour of deep affliction. Therefore,
Resolved, That we, the representatives of Mitchelville, look upon the death of the Chief Magistrate of our country as a national calamity, and an irrepressible loss beyond the power of words to express, covering the land with gloom and sorrow, mourning and desolation. An event so appalling as the assassination of our beloved President we feel to be a fiting memento of the bloody times in which we live
Resolved, That in view of the murder of our Chief Magistrate, and the further efforts of the assassins to take the lives of other members of the Government, we cannot but recognize the barbarously wicked motive gives which have actuated the leaders of the rebellion for many years; and while we are constrained to adjudge them criminals of the deepest dye, and the worst enemies of mankind, deserving the worst punishment due their infamous deeds we will not mar <illegible> moment of our solemn sadness by encouraging feelings of vindictive revenge, but leave them to Him who ”doeth all things well,” and has said, ”Vengeance is mine, I will repay.”
Resolved, That viewing the wisdom and Christian patriotism displayed by the President in the management of the terribly bloody conflict in which the nation has been engaged during the past four years, and of that most memorable act proclaiming Liberty to out race, we would not fail to acknowledge the hand of Almighty God, who has crowned the career of this great and good man with a blessed immortality, sealed by his blood, and embalmed him in the memory of future generations.
Resolved That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to the family of the lamented dead in this hour of their deep bereavement.
Resolved That we wear crape upon our left arm during the remainder of this month.
President Johnson's temporary residence is guarded by the late President's body guard, composed of a hundred picked men, chosen one from each country in Ohio. Detachments of these relieve each other, and suitable precaution is used to prevent the ingress of those who do not come on lawful business.
<c02>
DEATH OF WILLIAM BUFFUM.
DETROIT, (Mich.) April 20,1865.
DEAR MS.GARRISON-We reached this city on the day the appalling tidings from Washington were filling the land with consternation and grief. The newspapers, the railroad engines, the street-cars, public and private buildings were every where draped with the tokens of mourning that told to the eye the tide of woe setting in to such a flood of national sorrow as was never before known in this country, or perhaps the world, on the death of a single individual.
On taking up the Detroit Tribune, I was grieved to see the notice of the death of WILLIAM BUFFUM, one of the oldest and best friends of the colored people in this city. He and his bereaved family were endeared to us, as so many other Anti-Slavery families are from Maine to Michigan, for the personal kindness received in our fourteen years’ mission of anti-slavery pilgrimage. It is eleven years since we visited Detroit, and were then welcomed and our ears pleased with the Thee and the Thou of this friendly family, as we talked of their own dear Anti-Slavery friends in Massachusetts and Rhode Island.
And now, by the all-wise disposing Providence, we were to meet the daughters and their lovely mother in this sudden and great affliction-and to go over with them tenderly the retrospect of the labors and love of the departed of their circle of friends and relatives in the divine cause of human freedom-Arnold Buffum, (the brother,) Effingham L. Capron and his wife, Mrs. Sarah Earle, Cyrus Burleigh, and so recently, Nathaniel B. Borden.
We felt afresh how blessed it was to have had a part in those days when its disciples were few and despised in bringing the coming of the kingdom of Liberty in our beloved land.
William Buffum died on April 13th, after four days illness with congestion of the lungs. The burial was from Christ Church. And the solemn grandeur of the service was most impressive. As the stately verses were read, ”Lord, thou hast been our refuge in all generations; before the mountains were brought forth, or ever the earth and the world were made, thou art God from everlasting to everlasting”-I looked up, and was touched deeply to see that half of the mourners of this good man were the colored women and children he has taught for the last five years, every Sunday, even to the last one of his life. The sight reminded me that President Lincoln has no sincerer mourners than the affectionate, loyal hearted colored millions he proclaimed free forever.
SALLIE HOLLEY.

PROGRESS.
On Monday, May 1st, after considerable discussion, an order was passed in the Board of Aldermen, requesting the Trustees of the Public Library to make the necessary arrangements for opening the Reading-room of that institution to the public from 5 to 10 o'clock, P. M. on Sundays. This arrangement is directed to commence on the 13th instant, Sunday after next. The question on the passage of the order was taken by a yea and nay vote, as follows:
Yeas-Aldermen Dana, Davies, Denio, Messenger, Nash, Sprague, Tyler-7.
Nays-Aldermen Gaffield, Marsh, Porter, Standish-4.
Alderman Clapp was unavoidably absent.
Thus is one more step gained towards advancing the intelligence of the laboring classes, securing a small portion of time against evil influences in the case of those whose customary associates are evil, and supplying for young and old, during the few hours in question, a refuge from idleness, the mother of so many vices. The Aldermen who passed this vote have not only conferred a benefit on the city, but have forwarded public intelligence, civilization, good morals and religion. C. K. W.
PERSONAL Joseph and Ruth Dugdale, having completed their religious visit to the Prisons and Penitentiaries in Philadelphia and Trenton, New Jersey, have left Philadelphia for their home in Iowa. The Trenton State Gazette, speaking of their visit to the home for friendless children, says-“Our hearts will not allow as to withhold our grateful thanks to those gifted and excellent friends, Joseph Dugdale and others, for the kind and true benevolence that led them to seek the privilege, yesterday morning, of visiting the Children' S Home, and speaking to those little ones in a manner peculiarly pleasing and acceptable. The incidents that were related to illustrate the Gospel lessons of truth, honesty, and love, were in language so pure and simple that the smallest child could comprehend their meaning, and yet so beautiful and eloquent, that those of ’larger growth’ were moved by their power. It was a meeting that will long be remembered. The sparkling eyes, and the smile of joy and gladness that beamed from every face, showed that such instruction was highly appreciated by the children.”
NEVER A DEATH SO MOURNED Whether reference be had to any nation or to all nations, it may be safely affirmed that never has a death been so mourned as that of Abraham Lincoln. And it can be as truly declared that, of all the millions whose hearts have been wrung by the recent awful tragedy, none have felt, because none have had such cause to feel, this great bereavement like the colored population of the South, whose chains have been broken and whose liberties secured by the fiat of the martyred patriot.
In another column we publish a series of appropriate resolutions, adopted at a meeting of the ”Council of Administration” a Mitchelville, Hilton Head, S. C., on the 21st ult. Mitchelville is a village recently sprung into existence, of three thousand freedmen, who have chosen their own town officers, and manage their own affairs in a very creditable manner. We attended and addressed a crowded meeting in that village, during our recent visit, in company with Joseph Hoxie, Esq., Judge Kelley, Theodore Tilton, Judge Kellogg, George Thompson, General Little field, and others, and the occasion was thrilling beyond description.
FIRST GREAT MEETING IN CHARLESTON. During our brief sojourn in Charleston, we had the unspeakable satisfaction of attending three immense gatherings of the freedmen in that city. We give, in our present number, a report of the proceedings of the first meeting at Zion Church, as furnished by the Charleston Courier of the 17th ult. We are sure that, imperfect as it is, and in a few instances scarcely intelligible as to the sentiments uttered, it will be perused with great interest. Who that was present will ever forget that occasion?
WHAT OUGHT TO BE DONE WITH FREEDMEN AND REBELS? This is the title of a sermon preached by Rev. H. M. Dexter in Berkeley street Church, April 23d, and now published at the request of his congregation, by Nichols and Noyes, 117 Washington street. It is a discourse of marked ability. Its delivery called forth applause from the congregation.
Hon. Charles Sumner has accepted an invitation from our city authorities to deliver a eulogy on the life and public services of President Lincoln, probably in the Music Hall, Thursday, June 1st. The Handel and Haydn Society, augmented to six hundred voices, have tendered their services. It is also contemplated to have a procession of trades and societies.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT. We acknowledge the receipt of twenty dollars from GERRIT SMITH, towards raising a fund for the destitute family of that intrepid and untiring friend of the slave, and of the cause of universal freedom, in whose behalf he laid down his life, the late DANIEL FOSTER. May others feel moved to imitate this example of liberality.
We copy from the Commonwealth the admirably expressed remarks of Ralph Waldo Emerson on the assassination of the late President Lincoln.
<c03>
THE FUNERAL AT WASHINGTON.
One of the most touching sights in the procession was a battalion of scarred and maimed veterans, with bandaged limbs and heads, with an Arm or leg gone, but hobbling along on crutches, determined that their homage to their great chief should be as sincere as that of their companions. Then came the Colored Benevolent Associations, with their banners draped, and their walk and mien the very impersonation of sorrow.
The procession was almost two hours in passing a given point, and the head of it had actually begun to disperse at the Capitol before the rear of the column had passed beyond the Treasury Department.
On the arrival at the eastern gate of the Capitol, the remains were conveyed into the rotunda, where a catafalque like that in the Executive Mansion had been erected to receive them. Here the attendants assembled, and amid profound silence Rev. Dr. Gurley read the burial service, and pronounced the benediction.
The remains lay in state at the Capitol until Friday morning, when they proceeded northward.
The following is the programme which was arranged for the transportation of the remains of President Lincoln to Springfield, III., which has thus far been carried out:
The remains will leave Washington at 8 A. M. on Friday, the 21st, and arrive at Baltimore at 10.
Leave Baltimore at 3 P. M., and arrive at Harrisburg at 8.20 P. M.
Leave Harrisburg at 12 M. 22d, and arrive at Philadelphia at 6 30 P. M.
Leave Philadelphia at 4 A. M. of Monday 24th, and arrive at New York at 10.
Leave New York at 4 P. M. of the 25th, and arrive at Albany at 11 P. M.
Leave Albany at 4 P. M. on Wednesday, the 26th, and arrive at Buffalo at 7 A. M. of Thursday, the 27th.
Leave Buffalo at 10.10 the same day, and arrive at Cleveland at 7 A. M. on Friday, the 28th.
Leave Cleveland at midnight same day, and arrive at Columbus at 7.80 P. M. of Saturday, 29th.
Leave Columbus at 8 P. M. the same day, and arrive at Indianapolis at 7 A. M. on Sunday, the 30th.
Leave Indianapolis midnight of the same day, and arrive at Chicago at 11 A. M. of Monday, May 1.
Leave Chicago at 9.30 P. M. of May 2, and arrive at Springfield at 8 A. M. of Wednesday, May 3.
At the various points on the route, the remains are to be taken from the hearse car by State or municipal authorities to receive public honors.
A special train consisting of the funeral car and eight passenger cars for those who have been invited as an escort to the remains of the President, go through from Washington to Springfield, 111
The funeral train left Washington on Friday. At Baltimore and Harrisburg, and at the intervening places, the same tokens of respect to the distinguished dead were paid.
The funeral of Mr. Lincoln is something to be remembered for a cycle. It caps all eulogy upon his life and services, and was, without exception, the most representative, spontaneous, and remarkable testimonial ever rendered to the remains of an American citizen.
One of the striking features of the funeral procession yesterday was the applause showered upon the representatives of the colored race upon the line of march in the wealthier parts of the city. The scene in Fifth avenue was one continued ovation to the negroes, who were compelled to keep their heads uncovered for miles in acknowledgment of the plaudits of the male spectators and the waving handkerchiefs of the ladies in the windows. A queer city is New York. Less than two years since, for one entire week it was us much as a negro's life was worth to be seen in the streets, while now they are on the very topmost wave of fashionable favor! What next? We wonder.-New York World.
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN. The Raleigh Standard, the publication of which is continued under the old proprietors, with the approval of the Federal authorities, says:
We announce with profound grief the assassination of the President of the United States. Humanity is shocked, and the heart bleeds at the announcement. The despatches which we give below contain the melancholy and astounding intelligence. He was fallen at the height of his fame, just as the sun of peace was bursting on his whole country, which he had redeemed by his constancy, his patriotism, and his devotion to the endless existence of the. American Union. His name will live always, while his assassins and their prompters will be execrated as the basest and most cowardly of human kind. Abraham Lincoln was the best friend the South had in all the North. We pray God that his untimely and cruel death may not add to the miseries of our afflicted State. North Carolina had no agency in the awful deed. We wash our hands of this blood-guiltiness, and we call Heaven to witness that we deplore it as the saddest event in the history of this continent.
The Raleigh Progress also says:
We tremble for the consequences, but we assure the officers and men of the Union armies, and the people of the entire North, that the great mass of the people of North Carolina and the South deeply deplore this act, and we sincerely trust that they will not be held responsible for the infamous act of the base assassins.
THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF ASSASSINATION. The following appeared in the advertising columns of the Selma, Alabama, Dispatch, and evinces the same spirit that animated the conspirators who plotted the assassination of the President:-
“One Million Dollars Wanted, to have peace by the 1st of March. If the citizens of the Southern Confederacy will furnish me with the cash, or good securities for the sum of 1,000,000 dollars, I will cause the lives of Abraham Lincoln, Wm. H. Seward and Andrew Johnson to be taken by the first of March next. This will give us peace, and satisfy the world that cruel tyrants cannot live in ’a land of liberty.’ If this be not accomplished, nothing will be claimed beyond the sum of 50,000 dollars, in advance, which is supposed to be necessary to reach and slaughter the three villains. I will give myself 1,000 dollars towards this patriotic purpose. Every one wishing to contribute will address ’X’ .box X. 
Alabama, Dec. 1,1864.”
A year ago, when there were reports of conspiracy in Richmond to murder President Lincoln, he said to a friend-“Well, even if true, I do not see what the rebels would gain by either killing or getting possession of me. I am but a single individual, and it would not help their cause, or make the least difference in the progress of the war. Everything would go right on just the same.”
AN OLD COLORED WOMAN’S PRESENTIMENT Mrs. Swisshelm tells of a prophetic old colored woman at Washington, who, during the great rejoicing of the late victories, was much troubled in her mind, and kept saying:-"They's goin' to do somethin’ drefful to you. I’s affeared for you all. You's a ’joicin', an’ they’s agwine to do somethin’ drefful. You uns don’t know em; I know em; they hates you. They won't never make no peace along o’you’ uns  They al'ays hated you; but now you've done gone an’ tuk their niggers from em-they hates you wors’norever, an' they's only cheatin’ you. They's goin’ to do somethin’ to you.”
The windows of the office of the United States telegraph company's office at Auburn, N. Y. were smashed Monday night because a photograph of Lincoln draped in black was displayed. When James McKaye, of New York, the president of the company, heard of it, he directed that the office should be fully draped, that a portrait of the President draped should be displayed at every pane of glass, and that the office and the portraits should be defended with powder, lead and steel, until after the President's funeral.
A notorious copperhead at Waterbury, Ct., on hearing of the president’s death, displayed a flag with the words, “The devil is dead,” upon it. A rope put about his neck and a significant movement towards a tree induced the fellow to give up his flag, and to promise loyalty for the future.
HARPER’S WEEKLY, for May 6th, contains an excellent likeness of the late ”President Lincoln at Home,” and also of his little son ”Tad.” The picture is well worth preserving.
The intelligence of the assassination of President Lincoln caused much excitement, and cast a deep gloom over the American residents in Havana. The rebels and their sympathizers, however, secretly and openly rejoiced. The American consulate displayed the flag at half mast, as also all the American shipping in the harbor.
CHARLESTON, S. C , April 21,1865. The deepest gloom has pervaded the city since the assassination of our beloved President became known on the morning of the 19th inst. Many an eye that had witnessed the horrors of the battle-field unaffected, has now testified to a terrible grief. The colored people sobbed and cried in the streets, ”My God! My God! Our friend is gone.”
The Charleston Hotel, the Adams Express office, and the Citizens Belief office were draped very soon after the arrival of the sad news, and the theatre postponed its performance. Flags are draped in all parts of the city by the military and colored people. Minute guns were fired by the Tuscarora, Pawnee, Donegal, Accacia, Flambeau, Wamsutta, and the monitors Katskill, Passaic and the sloop-of-war John Adams.
NEW YORK, April 29. By the steamer Fung Shuey we have New Orleans files to the 2d inst. The news of the assassination of President Lincoln was received on the 18th, and instantly spread a pall of gloom and
<c04>
despondency over the city. The city was draped in mourning. Meetings were held, and expressions put forth of heartfelt public grief. The city was never more shocked
OUTRAGEOUS. The New York Times says: We find this remarkable paragraph in a Western paper: About eight miles from Shelbyville, Indiana, is the little town of Marietta, a place noted for nothing in particular, save the virulent type of copperheadism prevailing there. The reception of the dreadful news from Washington set honest democrats thereabouts crazy with joy. In the absence of a cannon, they loaded and fired an anvil repeatedly, shouted, danced, sang, and in every possible manner gave expression to their democratic joy, after Which they constructed an effigy of President Lincoln, with a rude representation of the bullet hole in his head, which they carried about the streets, a big ruffian following and ringing a bell. The effigy was afterward burnt.”
The Herald's Washington dispatch says our Consul General in Canada has given notice to the authorities that all the criminals connected with the assassination of President Lincoln must be surrendered to the United States authorities.
THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL IN BOSTON.  The following gentlemen have been appointed in Boston to cooperate with the movement of the New England women for the construction of a Lincoln monument: John A. Andrew, A. H. Rice A. H. Bullock, F. W. Lincoln, John B. Alley, E. R Mudge, Charles Demond, C. G. Nazro, Charles F Dana, J. L. Little, William Gray, E. S. Tobey, Josiah Quincy, S. G. Ward, Almon D. Hodges, Carlos Pierce, W. W. Clapp, J., L. S. Jones, George O. Carpenter, J. W. Edmands, G. B. Upton, William B. Spooner. The ladies of Massachusetts have been invited to form Lincoln monument associations.
THE SPIRIT OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN. We recall now with tearful interest, (says the Anti-Slavery Standard,) the characteristic speech made by Abraham Lincoln to his friends and neighbors of Springfield, I11., when he was leaving them, a little more than four years ago, to assume the duties of President It is a beautiful illustration of his modesty and sincerity, and of that deep religious trust by which he has been sustained in the very difficult and trying position to which he was called:
MY FRIENDS: No one in my position can appreciate the sadness I feel at this parting. To this people I owe all that I am. Here I have lived for more than a quarter of a century; here my children were born, and here one of them lies buried. I know not how soon I shall see you again. A duty devolves upon me which is, perhaps, greater than that which has devolved upon any other man since the days of Washington He never would have succeeded except for the aid of Divine providence, upon whom he at all times relied. I feel that I cannot succeed without the same Divine aid which sustained him, and on the same Almighty Being I place my reliance for support; and I hope you, my friends, will all pray that I may receive that Divine assistance, without which I cannot succeed, but with which success is certain. Again I bid you an affectionate farewell.
WHAT HAS BEEN DONE WITH BOOTH’S BODY? This question will, in all probability, be as great a secret hereafter as that concerning who was the executioner of Charles I. of England. A correspondent of the World writes from Washington regarding the matter as follows:
“Yesterday the Secretary of War, without instructions of any kind, committed to Col. Lafayette C. Baker, of the secret service, the stark corpse of J. Wilkes Booth. The secret service never fulfilled its volition more secretively. ‘What have you done with the body?’ said I to Baker. ’That is known, he answered, ’to only one man living besides myself. It is gone. I will not tell you where. The only man who knows is sworn to silence. Never till the great trumpeter comes shall the grave of Booth be discovered. And this is true. Last night, the 27th of April, a small row boat received the carcass of the murderer; two men were in it; they carried the body off into the darkness, and out of that darkness it will never return. In the darkness, like his great crime, may it remain forever, impalpable, invisible, nondescript, condemned to that worse than damnation, annihilation. The river bottom may ooze about it, laden with grape shot and drowning manacles. The earth may have opened to give it that silence and forgiveness which man will never give its memory. The fishes may swim around it, or the daisies grow white above it; but we shall never know. Mysterious, incomprehensible, unattainable, like the dim times through which we live and think upon as if we only dreamed them in a perturbid fever, the assassin of a nation's head rests somewhere in the elements, and that is all; but if the indignant seas or the profaned turf shall ever vomit this corpse from their recesses, and it receives humane or Christian burial from some who do not recognize it, let the last words those decaying lips ever uttered be carved above them with a dagger, to tell the history of a young and once prominent life: ‘Useless! Useless!’”
BOOTH AN ILLEGITIMATE. A Cincinnati paper states that all the children of Junius Brutus Booth now living are illegitimate. He eloped with their mother, who is now living, leaving a wife and child behind him at London. He was never divorced from the wife he deserted. She followed him to this country, settled in Baltimore, became dissipated, and used to seek interviews with the woman who had supplanted her, when she used shocking language. Her son, Richard Booth, was a lawyer in Boston. The Booth brothers are said to have always shown the strongest possible attachment for their mother, J. Wilkes lately assigned all his property to her.
WASHINGTON, 29th. The post mortem examination of Booth’s body showed that the ball did not touch the brain, but striking the spinal column produced immediate paralysis. The opinion of the surgeons is that he must have died a horrible death, the brain being active and consciousness complete up to the very moment of his death.
Nearly all the parties directly implicated are are now in custody. Payne, the would be assassin of Secretary Seward, is a brother of the St. Albans raider. There are six brothers, all reckless and daring fellows. Two were with Walker in Nicaragua.
The reward offered for Booth amounts now to $110,000. The government offered $50,000, the city of Washington $20,000, the city of Baltimore $10,000, the special agent of the War Department, $10,000, Major General Auger $10,000, and Gov. Curtin of Penn., $10,000.
WASHINGTON, May 1.
A report telegraphed hence that Senator Sumner was shot at one night last week was untrue, but was doubtless founded on information now in possession of the authorities, that two attempts have been made to assassinate the Senator. One of these attempts was made a night or two ago, and the other was made in January last. It was a knowledge of these attempts, and of threatening letters received by Mr. Sumner, that prompted some of his friends to request that a sentry be posted at the door of the house in which he resides. When the Senator questioned the sentry  as to who had him stationed there, the reply was, the corporal ordered me to remain until relieved, and not to leave this post should you send me away, that being his instructions. On the evening in which President Lincoln was assassinated, Senator Sumner was absent from his rooms. A number of persons called, but no attempt has been made to ascertain who they were; neither did the occurrence of that night prompt the posting a guard at Senator sumner’s door, which is still kept there.
DISCOVERY OF A NEFARIOUS PLOT. Last Monday morning, the brig J. Titus, commanded by Captain Smith, arrived at the port of New York from Bermuda. Captain Smith reported that the United States Consul at Bermuda had discovered a plot by which the yellow fever was to be introduced into the city of New York. A Dr. Blackburn, of Wilmington, North Carolina, had, it appears, collected a large quantity of infected clothing, such as sheets, shirts, etc., which it was his intention to ship to New York. We are living at a time that has been almost unexampled in atrocity and bloodthirstiness. The cuaningest devices of bell scarcely exceed, in intended cruelty, the remorseless ingenuities that have, in so many shapes, emanated from the South. The motives and deeds which have been manufactured there render the actors ripe for eternal retribution of the flercest degree. By this last device, vengeance and malignity would defeat their own ends, and innocent children and delicate and lovely women would be entombed in one common horrible sarcophagus. The evil passions which have dyed the plains of the South with so many an Aceldama have never equaled an attempt like this, which, in the degree of its criminality, would seem to be equal to that which hath never forgiveness, neither in this world, neither in the world to come Philadelphia Telegraph.
Loyal men find special cause for rejoicing in the decision of the Attorney General, forbidding the return to the North of those misguided miscreants who deserted their original homes to join the civil or military forces of the rebellion. They are double dyed traitors, for they warred against their local as well as their National Government, and violated al the instincts of patriotism. Having abandoned their country for the express purpose of injuring it, have hading voluntarily chosen to join their fate with that of its enemies, they should be left to drink the last dregs of the bitter cup of defeat and desolation.
<c05>
THE LETTER ABOUT GEN.SHERMAN.
It is said that the Richmond letter to the London Times, dated March 4th, and published in the Times of April 5th, has been made the subject of a cabinet consultation. The part of the letter chiefly significant, and especially relating to Gen. Sherman, is as follows:
Reverting once more to Sherman, I may remark that his long residence in the South has taught him to disclaim any intention of carrying on war on behalf of the ”poor, lashed, degraded slave,” out of whom Mrs. Stowe has manufactured a melodramatic fame of which the incidents of this war are already making her countrymen ashamed. Possibly, in common with every other intelligent man, Sherman may think that the abolition of slavery would be a great boon to the South, but he does not seem to think that it would be a boon to the slave. At any rate, Sherman has always shown great disinclination to admitting negro soldiers to his ranks, whatever allegations to the contrary may be made by journals, to which he gives little heed. I am informed that he forbade recently any junction between his own troops and those which Gen. Foster commands on the South Carolina coast, and which consist principally of negroes.
If, in the Armageddon which seems now approaching, General Sherman once gets the South down, it may confidently be predicted that his politics will be more in harmony with those of General Lee than those of President Lincoln. Mr. Lincoln has found him hitherto a very valuable friend; it is possible that before the end comes he will find him a still more dangerous enemy. During this war, I have seen no man who seemed to me to possess so much of the temper of Cromwell as Sherman. Vain, eager, enthusiastic, fanatical, at times gloomy and reticent, at others impulsive and talkative, by some regarded as half mad when the fit is on him, General Sherman possesses a character which, unless I am mistaken, is of the stuff of which great and mysterious actors in history are often made.
The Herald’s Washington correspondence of the 27th says, the lamentations of sherman’s army over the assassination of President Lincoln were suddenly changed to rejoicing at the appearance of Gen. Grant. His old Army of the Tennessee were perfectly wild with joy.
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, April 25, 10 P. M. Major General Dix, New York:-A despatch has just been received by the Department from General Grant, dated Raleigh, 9 A. M., April 24. He says:-“I reached here this morning, and delivered to General Sherman the reply to his negotiation with Johnston. Word was immediately sent to Johnston terminating the truce, and informing him that civil matters could not be entertained in any convention between army commanders.”
EDWIN M.SFANTON, Secretary of War.
On Johnston being notified by Sherman that the Government would grant him no better terms than those conceded General Lee, he immediately capitulated.
The terms granted Johnston embrace in the surrender four armies of the Military Division of the West, but excluding the fifth that of Dick Taylor-lying west of the Chattahoochie river. Among the Generals surrendered is Beauregard. Principal among the Lieutenant Generals is Hardee. Bragg, lately relieved of command, was not surrendered. Wade Hampton refused to be surrendered, and is reported to have been shot by Johnston in an altercation; but a more trustworthy report is that he fled in company of Jeff.Davis.
The number actually surrendered is 27,400, although more names are given. All the militia from South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia and the Gulf states are included.
BRECKINRIDGE ON THE FREEDOM OF LABOR. The war correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial says of Gen. Breckinridge, at the interview with Sherman, that he was morose and reticent. He showed plainly how deep was his humiliation. He conversed, however, with those who addressed him, and with Gen. Sherman. In a discussion as to the slavery question, he made this remarkable confession: “The discussion of the slavery question is at an end. The amendment to the Constitution forever forbidding slavery is perfectly fair, and will he accepted in that spirit by the people of the South,” If this is the feeling of the class he represents, we hail it with gladness.
According to the official report, Gen. Lee surrendered to Gen. Grant 26,115 men, 159 pieces of artillery, 7I stand of colors, 15,198 stand of small arms, 1100 wagons, and 4,000 mules and horses. The men as fast as paroled are sent South, recent orders from Washington forbidding them a habitation at the North.
The Detroit Free Press (Copperhead) said on the very morning that Lee surrendered to Grant, but before it got the news,” The failures of the combinations of Gen. Grant are so manifest that the most inexperienced in military matters can perceive them. We pronounced Grant a humbug, and see no reason to change our opinion of him” Oh!
Gen. Grant has left Washington. While there, he took the part of Gen. Sherman with great warmth. He says Sherman is no lawyer but a patriotic soldier.

NO MORE DRAFTING AND RECRUITING.
WAR DEPARTMENT.
WASHINGTON, April 13th, 1865, 4 P. M.
To Major General Dix:
The Department, after mature deliberation and consultation with the Lieut. General upon the results of the recent campaign, has come to the following determinations, which will be carried into effect by orders to be immediately issued.
First-To stop all drafting and recruiting in the loyal States.
Second-To curtail purchases for arms, ammunition, quartermaster and commissary supplies, and reduce the expenses of the military establishment in all its several branches.
Third-To reduce the number of general and staff officers to the actual necessities of the service.
Fourth-To remove all restrictions upon trade and commerce, so far as may be consistent with the public safety.
As soon as these measures can be put in operation, it will be made known by public orders.
MEMPHIS, April 24. A dispatch dated off the mouth of Red river, 23d, says the famous rebel ram Webb ran out of Red river that night, passing all the Union gunboats and ironclads in the Mississippi, going at the rate of 25 miles an hour. On her way down she attempted to destroy the steamer Saratoga, but missed her. Early on the morning of the 25th, she was seen 50 miles above New Orleans. Our gunboats fired on her, but she made no reply. It is believed she will attempt to destroy our commerce on the Mississippi, and escape to the gulf. It was also thought that Jeff. Davis was on board, and was trying to get to Havana.
NEW ORLEANS, April 24 The rebel ram Webb, Captain Reed, of Tacony notoriety, commanding, ran past this city this afternoon. When midway she lowered the stars and stripes, and hoisted the rebel flag. She was fired upon, and a 120 pound ball passed through her bow. The gunboats started in pursuit, and when 24 miles below the city, she was fired by the crew and blew up. The crew of 64 and 8 officers took to the woods on the left of the river. The greatest portion afterward surrendered.
BOOTH. To the Editors of the Evening Post: As Booth was ambitious of immortalizing his name, the writer proposes that his body be buried under the pavement in front of Ford's Theatre, and a flat stone of black marble placed over his remains, with this inscription:” Here lies the assassin.”
The writer will give five hundred dollars towards the purchase of the building, and converting it into a Christian temple of worship. F. M.
DEATH OF PRESIDENT BENSON. By accounts at the American Colonization society’ s  office at Washington, we learn the death of ex-President Benson, of Liberia, at his home in Buchanan, Bassa County, St. john’s River, on the 24th January.
Mr. E J. Roye, educated at Oberlin,College. Ohio, and who went to Liberia about 1845 has been appointed Chief Justice, in the place of the late Chief Justice Dayton, drowned in the serf near Cape Palmas 12th December last.
The Nashville Times, of April 22d, says: ”A report has reached here of the death of John Bell, in Alabama, about a fortnight ago. The intelligence comes through channels of the highest respectability. It was communicated at Murfreesboro to a gentleman by a lady whose family are in frequent communication with the South.”
The Times’ Charleston correspondent says that ex-Governor Aiken has been arrested by order of President Johnson, and that his arrest was based upon his refusal to take the oath of allegiance.
SUCCESSFUL FEDERAL EXPEDITION. Intelligence from Charleston, S. C., states that, recently, an expedition under command of Brig. Gen. E. D. Porter started from Sumterville to Manchester, and destroyed all the connecting railroad bridges on the line between Columbia and Florence. The expedition destroyed 1000 bales of cotton, 7 locomotives and 43 passenger cars, and brought back with it 2500 liberated slaves. From 5000 to 6000 more of the same class were waiting to come in.
PHILADEPHIA, April 30. Some excitement was caused to-day by the discovery of a plot to burn the city, as attempted in New York last year.
Payne, the attempted murderer of Secretary Seward, has tried to kill himself.
<c06>
STILL BENT ON KEEPING UP DISUNION. In the interest of its.defeated party, the N. Y. World is plausibly and with some ability endeavoring to make capital down South. It advises the rebels to submit at once, call the State Legislatures together, repeat the ordinances of secession, send members to the next Congress, and thus, uniting with their Northern political friends, thwart what it assumed to be the subjugating purposes of President Lincoln, and obtain control of the nation. It even intimates that, if representatives from the rebellious States should be refused admission to the Capitol in December, their Copperhead friends would come to the rescue, This insidious policy is ”exhausting the resources of statesmanship” to pacify the country. Come back, misguided friends, is the Copperhead talk, and we will join hands and forces, and upset the Government once more!
The argument is that the conduct of the conspirators against the flag, all the blood they caused to be shed, all the atrocities committed at Andersonville and elsewhere, are trivial mistake and misbehavior, in comparison with the outrageous acts and designs of the present Executive of the republic; and that they had better give up useless fighting for an abstraction, in time to make a shrewd alliance with the Northern opposition, and gain by that alliance substantially all their usurping temper and arrogant designs have contemplated. In other words, having failed with the musket, they should be canning enough to try political engineering in which their sympathizers in the tree States can venture to give them the helping hand.
-Boston Transcript.
INFAMOUS. Last Friday, when the superintendents and students of the Wilberforce University, at Tawada Springs, Greene county, were absent at Xenia, jollifying over the glorious victories of the Government and the end of the slaveholders’ rebellion, some villains in sympathy with the rebellion set fire to the buildings, and they were utterly destroyed The loss is over $50,000, and we learn there was little insurance on the property. This shows that there is a branch of the rebellion in that neighborhood that requires subjugation-Dayton Journal.
THE THIRTEENTH YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS will be held at LONGWOOD, (near Hamorton,) Chester Co., Pa., commencing as 11 o’clock, A. M., on Fifth day, (Thursday,) the 8th of Sixth month, (June,) 1865, and continuing, probably, threedays.
To this meeting, as usual, are invited all persons who feel attracted to a Religious Society which sets up no theological condition of membership, and neither demands nor expects uniformity of doctrinal belief; which has no virtual, discipline, or priesthood; which recognizes a Divine revelation in the unperverted instincts of the human soul, and the duty of every one to keep his mind and heart open at al <illegible> receive the truth, and follow its guidance; and which finds its bond of union in a common recognition of the brotherhood of the human race, and a common desire and purpose to labor diligently for the up rooting of every system of injustice, fraud and oppression, and the upholding of the kingdom of righteousness and peace throughout the world.
The wonderful history of our beloved country during the past year, as seen in the complete overthrow of the rebellion, the sentence of utter extermination pronounced against Slavery by the Government and the People, the dawn of peace after four years of retributive and bloody war, and the prospect of a speedy reunion of the States upon the principles enunciated by our fathers in the Declaration of Independence, will furnish cause for grateful exultation, and at the same time afford encouragement to do our share in the work of national reconstruction and regeneration.
OLIVER JOHNSON, RACHEL WILSON,
ANNIE M. STAMBACH, EUSEBIUS BARNARD,
BENJAMIN C. BACON, MARY ANN FULTON,
SUSAN004EA P. CHAMBERS, ALFRED H. LOVE,
THEODORE TILTON, LUCRETIA NAYLOR,
ANNIE F.KRET, J WILLIAM COX,
CARROLL DUNHAM, JENNIE K.SMITH,
ANNA E. DICKINSON, WILLIAM LLOYD.
Among those whose presence is confidently anticipated are George Thompson of England William Lloyd Garrison, and Aaron M. Powell.
DIED-At Mount Pleasant, (Iowa,) Feb. 9, Mrs. ELIZABETH NICKERSON,, of Wilmington, (Ohio,) aged 66.

CLEANSE THE BLOOD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and good for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure. AYER’S SARSAPARILLA purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Scrofula, or King's Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Byes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venersal Diseases, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases. Try AREA’S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound ”Sarsaparilla,” and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer then the best alterative which we know how to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to account the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell Mass., and sold by all druggists.
March 15. 2m

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
“WITHOUT SMUTTING”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET, 
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also passed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CAREAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform, his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, GAS Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Portion
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charless street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and, pasture, including eight acres of wood-land; Also, house, born, and carriage-house, all In excellent order, built some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, bath  &c  Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO-DAY.
BY ALMIRRA SEYMOUR.
Onward and upward passed,
Thou faithful, Christly man!
At midday night-glooms overcast
A Nation, as it stands aghast,
Gazing upon a crime so vast,
Of crimes it leads the van.
For thee, pure, pious soul,
Thy time-work well was done!
O, not for thee the deep bells toll;
O, not for thee the muffied roll;
No, not for thee the sounds of dole
That travel with the sun.
Millions of hearts, as one,
Breathe thus their strange, great grief-
The loving Father-soul has flows;
The widowed Mother-land's sad moan
Calls to her children, all her own,
For comfort and relief.
They come, dear Mother-land,
Sworn to avenge thy loss!
Firm as eternal Truth they stand,
A mighty, sin-subduing band;
Thy banner waves at their command,
Sacred as Christ's blest cross.
The last, indeed, are first!
Look on, lost sovereignty-
The Black Man feasts where thou wart nursed;
The POOR WHITE, into being burst,
Rules the wide land thy crimes have cursed,
And dictates terms to thee!
Lead on, our Heaven-sent guide,
In thee we fully trust;
Our judgment all thy words have tried,
Those words past works have not denied;
God called back Mercy to his side,
And bids us now be JUST.
Boston, April 19, 1865.

HYMN.
The following Hymn was sung at the meeting at Peter bore', N. Y., on the day of the burial of President Lincoln:-
The song of spring-birds in the grove,
The unchained waters sweeping fast,
And signs below, around, above,
Proclaim that Winter's reign it past.
In vain to us the cheerful light,
In vain the unchained waters sing,
In vain the earth and sky so bright,
And happy spring-birds carroling.
Deep clouds and darkness shroud the land;
A cry of agony and woe
Goes up to Heaven-for MURDER'S hand
Hath laid our lofty Leader low.
But late yon shrouded banner flung
Its starry folds against the sky;
We sang the song that Miriam sung,
The unbound millions marching by.
Our Heaven with Hope was all aflame;
The cannon's voice, from shore to shore,
And shout of myriads, with acclaim,
Declared the bloody struggle o'er.
To-day we bow 'neath sorrow's rod!
A Nation, in its hour of won,
Pleads for Thy guidance: O, our God!
We cannot, will not let Thee go!
As once across the desert sand
Thy shaft of fire lit up the night,
So now reach down thy blessed hand,
And lead us onward to the LIGHT.
G. W. PUTNAM.

A FUNERAL ODE.
The following lines, written by ADIN BALLOU, were impressively chanted in the Hopedale Chapel by the choir, as the closing exercise of the general funeral service solemnizing the obsequies of President Lincoln, April 19, 1865.
[PUBLISHED BY REQUEST.]
I.
The Nation's noblest Chief we mourn,
Struck down by fiendish spite-
The People's second Washington,
Laid low in murd'rous plight!
And all the land bewails the blow,
O'erwhelmed in unexpected woe!
II.
Thus Slavery's last, most hellish deed
Rebellion's dying rage-
Has made her clement Conqueror bleed,
And darker stained the age!
Down, writhing dragon, down the pit!
Thy native den, and tomb most fit!
III.
To thee we turn, Almighty God,
Thou ever good and wise,
And pray thy grace-distilling rod
May soothe the bitter cries
That burst from household hearts bereaved,
And bless this cup to millions grieved!
IV.
We thank thee for illustrious worth,
So long sustained and spared;
For threatened lives still left en earth;
For Future Life declared;
For martyrdom in meekness crowned,
And merit wreathed with glory round.
V.
And now, most gracious Father, teach
A groaning Nation peace-
To heal their gaping, bleeding breach
In Freedom's grand release;
May Justice rule, and Mercy plead,
And true repentance soon succeed!
VI.
To Thee, in hope, our prayers commend
The noble Chieftain's soul,
The weeping ones that sadly bend
Around his day so cold,
The sable hosts that bless his name,
And all that prize his deathless fame.

RAISING THE FLAG AT SUMTER.
With holy hands and thoughts profound,
Lift the banner from the ground;
With sanctifying breath of prayer,
Speed it through the ransomed air;
With hearts tumultuous with love,
Greet it, as it floats above:
Redeemed, regenerated, set free,
Salute it, O ye land and sea!
Four bitter years of dark mistrust
Trailed that banner in the dust;
Four cruel years of sin and shame
Falsified the nation's name;
Four wasting years of blood and strife
Freedom struggled for its life;
But to-day the flag floats free:
Salute it, all the land and sea!
Bound the fort where first it hung,
Treason first its echoes rung;
Where first the sacred sign unfuried,
First the bolts of hate were hurled;
Where first arose the smoke and shell,
First to earth, disgraced, it fell:
There restored, and there set free,
Salute it, land! salute it, sea!
Never again its folds shall wave
O'er a traitor or a slave;
Never again shall man efface
Star of hope or line of grace;
Never again shall kings maintain
God's republic is in vain;
Henceforth, that banner leads the free:
Salute it, every land and sea!
Hastings-on-Hudson, April, 1865. T.
<c02>
The Liberator.
ANOTHER GREAT REJOICING!
Zion Church Crowded-An immense Gathering at Citadel Square-Speeches by William Lloyd Garrison, Hon. Henry Wilson, Judge Kelley, Judge Kellogg, George Thompson and Theodore Tilton-The Colored People in Procession-Both the Old and Young join in the Procession.
[From the Charleston Courier of April 17.]
Saturday was another freedom's festival. Crowds of colored people assembled early in the morning on Citadel Square, where stands had been erected for the distinguished speakers expected to address them. The colored public school children met at the school houses, and marched in procession under the lead of Superintendent Redpath to the square, where they were arranged in order near the platform. It is estimated that between two and three thousand colored persons, old and young, were assembled on Citadel Green. It had been announced that the Hon. Henry Wilson, Senator from Massachusetts, would address them, and that the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher and William Lloyd Garrison were also expected. While waiting the arrival of the speakers, Major Delaney (colored,) of Gen. Saxton's Staff, addressed the crowd. The Major has a good address, and created a great sensation.
ARRIVAL OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
A little before 10 o'clock, the great cheering on the left announced the arrival of the great Liberator. Notwithstanding the efforts of Mr. Redpath and others to keep back the crowd, the pressure and rejoicing were so great that Mr. Garrison was literally borne on the shoulders of those present to the speakers stand. This demonstration elicited the remark from Major Delaney, that "this day should be the resurrection of John C. Calhoun."
ADJOURNMENT TO ZION CHURCH.
After the reception of Mr. Garrison on the stand, a message from General Saxton was received, requesting the adjournment of the assemblage to Zion Church, Mr. Wilson's health not permitting him to speak in the open air. The adjournment was immediately made, and the mass of human beings soon filled every spot in the church.
THE SCENE AT THE CHURCH.
The pulpit was occupied by Hon. Henry Wilson, William Lloyd Garrison, Geo. Thompson, Gen. Saxton, Theodore Tilton, Judge Kelley, of Pennsylvania, Dr. Leavitt and others. In front of the pulpit was a large number of army and navy officers and visitors, including several ladies. As soon as all had been seated, a freedman, named SAMUEL DICKERSON, with his two daughters, bearing a handsome wreath of flowers, advanced to the pulpit, and, addressing Mr. Garrison, said:
SIR-It is with pleasure that is inexpressible that I welcome you here among us, the long, the steadfast friend of the poor, down-trodden slave. Sir, I have read of you. I have read of the mighty labors you have had for the consummation of this glorious object Here you see stand before you your handiwork. These children were robbed from me, and I stood desolate. Many a night I pressed a sleepless pillow from the time I returned to my couch until the close of the rooming. I lost a dear wife, and after her death that little one, who is the counterpart of her mother's countenance, was taken from me. I appealed for her with all the love and reason of a father. The rejection came forth in these words: "Annoy me not, or I will sell them off to another State." I thank God that, through your instrumentality, under the folds of that glorious flag which treason tried to triumph over, you have restored them to me. And I tell you it is not this heart alone, but there are mothers, there are fathers, there are sisters, and there are brothers, the pulsations of whose hearts are unimaginable. The greeting that they would give you, sir, it is almost impossible for me to express; but simply, sir, we welcome and look upon you as our savior. We thank you for what you have done for us. Take this wreath from these children; and when you go home, never mind how faded they may be, preserve them, encase them, and keep them as a token of affection from one who has lived and loved. (Cheers.)
Mr. GARRISON spoke as follows:-
MY DEAR FRIEND-I have no language to express the feelings of my heart on listening to your kind and strengthening words, on receiving these beautiful tokens of your gratitude, and on looking into the faces of this vast multitude, now happily liberated from the galling fetters of slavery. Let me say at the outset, "Not unto us, not unto us, but unto God be all the glory" for what has been done in regard to your emancipation. I have been actively engaged in this work for almost forty years-for I began when I was quite young to plead the cause of the enslaved in this country. But I never expected to look you in the face, never supposed you would hear of anything I might do in your behalf. I knew only one thing-all that I wanted to know-that you were a grievously oppressed people; and that, on every consideration of justice, humanity and right, you were entitled to immediate and unconditional freedom.
I hate slavery as I hate nothing else in this world. It is not only a crime, but the sum of all criminality; not only a sin, but the sin of sins against Almighty God. I cannot be at peace with it at any time, to any extent, under any circumstances. That I have been permitted to witness its overthrow calls for expressions of devout thanksgiving to Heaven.
It was not on account of your complexion or race, as a people, that I espoused your cause, but because you were the children of a common Father, created in the same divine image, having the same inalienable rights, and as much entitled to liberty as the proudest slaveholder that ever walked the earth.
For many a year I have been an outlaw at the South for your sakes, and a large price was set upon my head, simply because I endeavored to remember those in bonds as bound with them. Yes-God is my witness!-I have faithfully tried, in the face of the fiercest opposition and under the most depressing circumstances, to make your cause my cause; my wife and children your wives and children, subjected to the same outrage and degradation; myself on the same suction-block, to be sold to the highest bidder. Thank God, this day you are free! (Great cheering.) And be resolved that, once free, you will be free forever. No-not one of you ever will, ever can consent again to be a bondman. Liberty or death, but never slavery. (Cheers.)
It gives me joy to assure you, that the American Government will stand by you to establish your freedom, against whatever claims your former masters may bring. The time was when it gave you no protection, but was on the side of the oppressor, where there was power. Now all is changed! Once I could not feel any gladness at the sight of the American flag, because it was stained with your blood, and under it four millions of slaves were daily driven to unrequited labor. Now it floats purged of its gory stains; it symbolizes freedom for all, without distinction of race of color. The Government has its hold upon the throat of the monster Slavery, and is strangling the life out of it.
In conclusion, I thank you, my friend, for your affecting and grateful address, and for these handsome tokens of our Heavenly Father's wisdom and goodness, and will try to preserve them in accordance with your wishes. O, be assured, I never doubted that I had the gratitude and affection of the entire colored population of the United States, even though personally unknown to so many of them; because I knew that upon me heavily rested the wrath and hatred of your cruel oppressors. I was sure, therefore, if I had them against me, I had you with me. (Applause.) But, as it is now time to organize this meeting, it will not be proper for me to go on with these remarks any
<c03>
further, except to say that, long as I have labored in your behalf, while God gives me reason and strength I shall demand for you everything I claim for the whitest of the white in this country. (Great cheering.)
Major General SAXTON rose to introduce Senator WILSON, and was greeted with three cheers. Gen. SAXTON said:
MY FRIENDS-I did not want yon to cheer for me to-day. There are soldiers in your cause here whose hats I am not worthy to hold, for they have been a great while in it. It is my happiness to-day to introduce to you an honored Senator from a noble State; my own loved native State, Massachusetts; one who, through a long, able, consistent and brilliant career in the councils of the nation, has fought and borne his testimony against the living wickedness of human slavery; and when the future of your emancipated, regenerate and regenerating race you shall read the record of its downfall, on the pages of its history shall shine brightly the name of Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts. (Cheers.)
MR. GARRISON. I wish to add one word more. I am delighted to find so strong a representation from Massachusetts in South Carolina. Of all the States in the Union, it is to her credit that she has always been the most hated and feared by the slaveholding South, for her anti-slavery spirit and tendencies. Senator Wilson has ably and faithfully sustained her reputation, in this particular, in Congress, for several years past; and for a much longer period has been your fearless friend and advocate. In the days of its deepest darkness and greatest perils, he unflinchingly supported your cause, which has been greatly advanced by his example and testimony. His life (as well as Mr. Sumner's) has been continually imperiled in the national capital; so that, from session to session, it has been uncertain whether he would ever be permitted to see his family and constituents again. He has fought a good fight, and deserves to be crowned with laurels. He began his career as a humble mechanic-one of the "mud-sills," of whom some of you may perhaps have heard. He has by his own merits worked his way up to almost the highest station in the land, and is now one of the most esteemed and justly honored of our public men. Join with me in exclaiming, God bless Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts! (Cheers.)
Senator Wilson rose amid cheering, and after it had subsided said:
MEN, WOMEN AND FREEDMEN OF CHARLESTON AND OF SOUTH CAROLINA, AND OF THE UNITED STATES-This is the proudest day of my life. To stand here on the soil of South Carolina, in the home of the rebellion, on the platform with the great anti-slavery hero of our country, William Lloyd Garrison, and before the freedmen of the city of Charleston (Great cheering.) For twenty-nine years, in private life and in public life, at all times and on all occasions, I have spoken against slavery, voted against slavery, and in favor of the freedom of every man that breathes God's air or walks his earth. And to-day standing here in South Carolina, I feel that the slave power we have fought so long is under my heel; (cheers)-and that men and women held in bondage for so long are free forevermore. You have no masters now. (Cheers.) You know no master but Almighty God. (Cheers.) Slave is no more written on your foreheads. Allow no man hereafter to call you a slave. Spread it abroad all over South Carolina, that the black men of South Carolina know no master now, and that they are staves no more forever. (Great cheering.) Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, (tremendous cheering and waving of hats, &c.) with twenty-five millions of freemen by his side, and seven hundred thousand bayonets behind him, has decreed it, and it will stand while the world stands that the men and women of South Carolina can never more be slaves. They have robbed your cradles; they have sold your children; they have separated husband and wife, father and mother and child. (Cries of yes! yes! yes!) They shall separate you no more. (Hallelujah! Bless the Lord!) Let them understand it. Here to-day I proclaim it. I want the proud and haughty chivalry of South Carolina whom I have met in the Congress of the United States to know it; I want them one and all to hear me to-day, and understand what I say, that the black men and the black women of South Carolina are as free as they are; and further, that they are loyal to the flag of the country, while they are false and traitorous. (Cheers.) Let them understand, too, that we the people of the United States and the Government of the United States have more respect for a loyal black man than for a South Carolina white traitor.
Now I want you to understand these things. I want you to walk the soil of South Carolina with your foreheads to the skies, proud and erect, conscious that you are freemen, and that you owe your obligations, not to the master of the palace, but to the lowest of your nation and to the God of heaven. (Cheers.)
And now, understanding that being your position, a position in which you are placed by the Government of the United States, a position in which you will be backed by the bayonets of the Government of the United States if it ever be necessary to maintain your freedom-standing in this position, forever free, you, and thousands who come after you, remember, oh remember, the sacrifices that have been made for your freedom, and be worthy of the freedom that has come to you! (Cheers.) I know you will be.
Through these four years of bloody war, you have been always loyal to the old flag of the country. You have never betrayed your country; you have never betrayed the Union soldiers fighting the battles of the country. You have guided them, you have cheered them, you have protected them all through the country, and you have proved yourselves worthy the great occasion in which you are placed by the slaveholders' rebellion. You saw, four years ago, the flag of your country struck down from Sumter-yesterday you saw the old flag go up again. All its stars gleam now with a brighter lustre. You know now what the old flag means; that it means liberty to every man and woman in the country. (Cheers.)
You have been patient, you have endured, yon have trusted in God for your liberties and in your country; and the God of our fathers has blessed our country, and blessed you; and now you are here, the country is saved, the great army that carried the arms of this rebellion has surrendered to Gen. Grant (Great cheers.) The long, dreary and chilly night of slavery has passed away forevermore, (Amen, Amen, Amen,) and the star of liberty casts its broad beams upon yon to-day. Now your duties commence with your liberties. Remember that you are to be obedient, faithful, true, and loyal to the country forevermore. (Cheers and cries of yes! Yes! yes!) Remember, too, that you are to educate your children; that you are to improve their condition; that you are to make a brighter future to them than the past has been to you. Remember that you are to be industrious; that freedom does not mean that you must not work, but it means that when you do work, you shall have pay for it to carry home to your wives and the children of your love. Remember that liberty means the liberty to work for yourselves, to have the fruits of it to better your own condition, and improve the condition of your children. Respect yourselves. Feel and go about on earth conscious that you are freemen. Walk like freemen. Bow and cringe to nobody on earth. Be kind and humane to each other, always serving each other when you can. Be courteous and gentlemanly to everybody on earth, black and white. (Cheers.) But let those men who have held the lash over you for so many years, let the men who plunged the nation into a sea of fire and blood, let them understand that we have buried a quarter of a million of brave men to save our liberty and maintain yours. Let it be understood while the names of those heroes sound in our ears, that we have resolved, that it is written on the leaves of our Bibles, and sworn on bended knee, that the United States of America shall be one nation, and a free nation forever. (Great cheering.)
<c04>
You have helped us to fight our battles. You have taken your muskets, you have stood by the old flag, you have given us your prayers, you have had your hearts' desire fulfilled. We have triumphed, and in our triumph we want all to stand up and rejoice together.
I want every man and every woman to understand here that every neglect of duty, every failure to be industrious, to be economical, to take care of your families, to support yourselves, to secure the education of your children; all these things will be put in our faces as a reproach, and your old matters will point you out and say, "We told you so." We have said for more than thirty years you were fit for liberty. We have maintained it amid obloquy and reproach, and in the halls of Congress were made a by-word. Now your masters have plunged the country into war. We have beaten them; we have whipped them; their power is broken, and it is lost forever. (Great cheering.) Now the great lesson is for you in the future to prove that we were right; to prove that you were worthy of all liberty and power yourselves. As you have used the bayonet, prepare yourselves for the future so that you can use the ballot in the cause we have maintained. (Great cheering.)
I see around me true and noble men who have come to see you in South Carolina. I know you will be glad to see and hear them, for they will speak to-day as they have spoken far away when the taskmaster stood over you. They come to look upon you as freemen; they have been your champions, and will be your friends in future difficulties. We simply ask you, in the name of your friends, in the name of the country, by your good conduct, by all that can elevate you and improve your condition, to show to your country, to even your old masters and mistresses, to every body the world over, that it was a sin against God, a crime against you to hold you in slavery; to show that you were worthy to have your names enrolled among the freemen of the United States of America. (Great cheering.)
Judge KELLEY, member of Congress from Pennsylvania, was next introduced to the audience, and said:
MR. CHAIRMAN AND MY FRIENDS-I am used to talking to pretty large audiences, and talking with a good deal of freedom, and I am not often confused at the beginning; but upon my word I do not know where to begin to-day, I have so much to say to you.
I have not come to you from Massachusetts. We had no William Lloyd Garrison to keep us up to our duty conscientiously. I come from Pennsylvania, a State-and by the way, I hope all Northern men here will note the fact, for it shows how bad it is to depart, however slightly, from a great principle-from Pennsylvania which was the first to abolish slavery by legislative enactment in its own limits; and yet under the influences of corrupt politicians, forgot its first love of freedom, and gave as a great statesman a President to the United States in James Buchanan, who, as President, betrayed the country in the name of slavery, and consented to the beginning of this war. (Groans.) A State the first to abolish slavery, to make every man on its soil a citizen; which, in 1838, instead of sowing freedom, deprived every colored man within its limits of the right he had before enjoyed to citizenship and the exercise of suffrage. Bear her history in mind, oh ye Northern men, and determine that, in beginning the work of reconstruction, we will make no departure from the requirements of absolute justice, and that we will decree that every man upon our soil shall enjoy all the rights of men; that we will measure for others by the standard we set up for ourselves, and not be content while any right we enjoy is withheld from another.
I will not, my colored friends, talk to you about the past. God knows that you understand it all too well. It is written in the depths of your hearts; it is with you in the morning and in the evening. When the dream disturbs your soul, it is by reason of the wrongs the white man has done you.
I turn to the hopeful future, not to flatter, though I might very well entertain you with a favorable recital of your deeds during the last four years, but to remind you that, though it is true that you henceforth have no earthly master, you still have a master, the GREAT BEING that strengthened and guided your eminent friend William Lloyd Garrison; (great cheering,) the Great Being that trained in humble poverty and simple-mindedness, Abraham Lincoln, a happy moulder of America's destiny; the good God whose stars shine together over the slave's hut as well as over your masters palaces. His laws you must obey. You must worship him not alone at the altar, but in every act of your daily life. It is not enough, it will not be enough that you are faithful in observing the Sabbath; that you go to Him with your sorrow; that you remember Him in your joys. You must remember that among His divine laws is that which reaches us all: "In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat thy bread." Labor, labor, is the law of all; and your friends in the North appeal to you to-day to stand by them, and help them in the great work they undertook to do for you: to do for the country as it is doing for you.
We want you to work with us, and we want you to do it by working here in South Carolina, and earning wages, taking care of your money, and making profit out of that money. Work on the plantation, if that is all you can do. Work in the workshop, if you can do it, and work well. He who does a day's work and could have done it better, has cheated himself. Strive that your work on Monday shall be better done than it was on Saturday; and when Saturday come round again, you shall be able to do a more skillful day's work.
We at the North learn three or four trades; and when one of you finds that you can do better for himself and his family by changing his pursuit, if he be assured of it, let him change it. We white boys at the North do not care much about being born to poverty. We don't care much of being deprived of education, in its broader sense, in early life. Why, it is only a stimulus. We run a race against a rich man's son carrying weight, and when we beat him under the weight we feel the prouder for it. Thus the truly great man who has addressed you toiled through the earlier years of his manhood, as well as his boyhood. Yet what South Carolinian of the last generation has had his name written higher in the scroll of fame, or graven more deeply in the hearts of the American people, than that of Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts. (Great cheering.)
The humble individual who now addresses you never saw the light of day in a school-house after he was eleven years old; and yet I know boys who went through college whose cases I have tried as a judge, and whose interests I have represented in the Congress of my country. Now remember that we are all men, and what one man can do in Massachusetts and another in Pennsylvania, you can do here; and though the colored man is not allowed to vote in my State, I think I will write to my eloquent friend here, (Dickerson,) to come and stump the district with me at the next election. I think he would show some of my constituents that we have no right to deprive the State of such intellectual power as he disclosed this morning. We have no right, my white brethren, to rob the commonwealth of such talent. (Cheers.)
I do like to look at these women here. I have a great respect for women; my mother was one, you know. (Laughter.) My wife is a woman. (Continued laughter.) But when I was not an abolitionist, while I was under the delusion that the old slave-masters used to teach, that you were little better than brutes, I never read or heard the story of a woman being outraged that my fingers did not tingle, and my blood swell from my heart to the throat. You are to be the mothers or wives of freemen's homes, and you must make those homes happy. You are to be the mothers of American citizens. You must strive to make them intelligent, educated, moral, patriotic and religious men. Many of you cannot read. You are not too old yet, and the mother that can read can half educate her own child by helping it with its lessons; and the mother that has little learning will get a great
<c05>
deal more by striving to hear the child's lessons, and so too with the father. See to it that you make home happy, and then see to it that the good man makes home comfortable. You are not going to live in a slave hut. Work industriously; work, be true, and then see that the carpet on your floor is one to your wife's taste. You can get at the conscience and heart of a great many Northern men who now think of you only-may I be pardoned for quoting the language in this sacred building-as "damned niggers;" you can get at their heart and conscience right straight through their pockets. And when they find that the colored farmer wants to buy goods from them, and that the colored tradesman has a great deal of money to spend, they will begin to think that you are Mr. John Jenkins and Mr. Joseph Brown. (Great brighter.) You are not to be contented with the common schools of Charleston for your children.
I am sorry that I do not know my colored friend's name who spoke this morning. (Cries of Dickerson, Dickerson.) Well, if Dickerson had been well trained in his youth, and put in a good preparatory school, passed through that with honor and credit, and then entered the law office of John C. Calhoun, I have no doubt, nor can any one who heard him doubt that he would have been one of the most distinguished lawyers of South Carolina to-day. (Tremendous cheers.) You may as well pay your fees in future to some lawyer Dickerson as to a lawyer with a fairer face, and I have no doubt in the world that colored physicians will attend your women with as perfect attention as the kindest physician in the State. Just now you are to give your children the best education you can. Our Northern colleges are founded to make two things out of, reputation and money for the Professors; and when you are ready to send four or fire hundred students to a University, you will find the University will be there to receive them. I am laying out a pretty big job for you. It is not a bit too big. Don't you know that colored men distinguished themselves in a harder job than that at Battery Wagner, at Olustee, and almost a hundred fields of battle? You can do in your quiet homes and in your daily life what they have done upon the field. Show your manhood and womanhood. I am only asking you to do what millions have done before; what you too might have done, had the opportunity offered.
I was just going to mention one of your number-one whose name has been sung and honored. One of your number is Captain Small of the steamer Planter. He took part in the celebration yesterday. I heard that he was here. If he is, I want to see and know him.
[The speaker then alluded to the invasion of a town in Pennsylvania by Early's army: the name of the town we failed to catch.]
He said when Early's army approached the town, the Burgess walked out eight miles to surrender the town, and ask for its protection. That Burgess was David Small.
Robert Small, being entrusted with a steamer and steam engine, which it was never supposed he could get out, did run it out, and did, therefore, make the circle complete for yesterday's celebration. The white soldier was there, the white sailor was there, and the black soldier and the black sailor, but they were there under white command. There was nothing at all to show that the negro could do without a leader; but there came the Planter which Robert Small, the black man, had taken by his own command from the armed State of South Carolina, showing that your race have enterprise, energy, capacity, and may be trusted to go alone, at least on steamboats. (Cheers and laughter.)
But I am detaining you too long. My friends from the North, these are to be our fellow-citizens. (Cheers.) It is for us to say how soon, and to use all our influence at home. I thank the good God that he has so interwoven our welfare with our justice to them, that if we do not, under the scourgings we have received, do justice to them now and at once. His plans for scourging us further are already disclosed. There is such a thing as the Confederate debt. How much it amounts to, you don't know, and I can't tell you. We know that it amounts to thousands of millions of dollars. There is, in my judgment, under Providence, but one mode of preventing the early assumption of that debt by the United States Government, and that is to protect yourselves and the loyal citizens all over the South. Let me give you an idea. We have not altered the spirit of the rebels; we have not converted them so that they renounce the right of a State to secede. They still hold the war to be unconstitutional. Now, if we confine suffrage to the white man alone, in the revolted States, every Senator and every Representative returned to Congress will be believers in the doctrine of secession, and deniers of the constitutional right of coercing States to remain in the Union. Vallandigham, Fernando Wood, and the men who controlled the Chicago Convention, have borne contempt and contumely for what was as dear to them as the apple of their eye; aye, have been four years in maintaining these doctrines; and if you send from the South its old representatives of secessionists, and you get the Northern element combined with them, they will refuse to provide payment for the interest of the Federal debt, unless you embrace theirs also. And they will hold by the pocket or its equivalent, the throat of every honorable man who refuses his bonds, and some Northern compromiser will propose, as it will be made a tax on the industry of their Northern friends, that both debts be assumed by the United States. How can you prevent it? Why, educate the colored man; and when the new constitution is made, see that the colored man's right goes with it.
Now, my friends, I have shown you what I want you to do. I tell you, in closing, to remember that in earning money and saving it, and gaining education and disclosing your moral virtues, you are helping us to vindicate your rights, and embody your freedom in the institutions of our common country. (Long continued cheering.)
Three cheers were also given for Pennsylvania, the Keystone State. The congregation then sung the hymn, "Roll, Jordan, roll," and several others.
At the conclusion, Mr. GARRISON said:
Well, my friends, this is indeed worth coming from Boston to see and hear! Now, I should like to say a word or two more to you before we separate; but you have other devoted friends here who have not yet addressed you, and I desire that they may now have an opportunity to do so. Should they occupy all the remainder of the time, it will be well. You will understand that my heart is with you, and also my benediction.
I wish the next speaker to be one who is not an American by birth, but an Englishman; and better than that, one who is world-wide in his feelings and sympathies, and to whom the colored race is as much indebted as to any man living. Some of you must have heard of the slaves in the West India Islands. There were eight hundred thousand of them. Their chains were broken long ago, and for many years they have been rejoicing in their freedom. They had many powerful advocates and determined supporters in England, but their liberation was, under God, owing as much-shall I do injustice to the living or the dead!-owing more to the noble philanthropist than any other person in the world-George Thompson. (Cheers.)
I was in England when the chains of the West India slaves were breaking; and as his abolition work in that direction seemed to be about accomplished, I invited Mr. Thompson to come to this country to help us liberate four millions who were still clanking their fetters. Did he say, "My work is done-I must decline your invitation"! No. But, though I could promise him as his reward nothing better than to be scorned, buffeted and spit upon, he nobly said, "I will give myself to the liberation of the bondmen in America as I have done to the cause of the enslaved in the British dominions." Accordingly, in the year 1834, he came to our shores, and was hunted like a
<c06>
wild beast simply because he pleaded your cause, and had his birth in a foreign land. He was mobbed from State to State, and from city to hamlet. He was no where safe. Assassins dogged his footsteps on the right hand and on the left; until at last his friends forced him to leave the country to save his life-though he never thought of leaving for consideration. We became acquainted in 1833, in London, and have been one in spirit, purpose and labors ever since. If there is any one whom I love and admire, it is George Thompson, the eloquent and dauntless advocate of universal emancipation. (Great cheering.)
[For Mr. Thompson's speech, see third page.
A message was received at this point of proceedings from the Citadel Square, stating that a large crowd had collected there, and were waiting for speakers. After a short consultation, Judge Kellogg, member of Congress; Joseph Hoxie, Rev. Dr. Leavitt and Major Delaney left the Church, and proceeded to the Square to address the crowd there.
The next speaker was Mr. Theodore Tilton, Editor of the New York Independent. He was introduced by Mr. Redpath, and delivered a beautiful and glowing address, which produced an excellent effect on the audience. Our limited space prevents us from giving a fuller report of this last address.
During the speaking, a very happy meeting of the school children took place in the basement, under the superintendence of the Rev. F. L. Cuyler.
After the speaking had finished, the dense mass of beings formed a procession, and distinguished visitors back to the Charleston Hotel.
The procession numbered about two thousand, old and young. As the guests stepped on to the pavement by the Charleston Hotel, the procession moved on, cheering and hurrahing for the various guests as they passed on the route. This closed the festivities of the occasion.

INSTRUCTION OF THE FREEDMEN.-No. IV.
PHONICS.
Unlike the Phonetic method, the Phonic introduces no new letters. Words are divided into syllables. A vowel in the end of a syllable is understood to be long; a syllable ending in a consonant is short. This is taught, with the sounds of the letters, as a law of language, and the text is made to conform to it. The digraphs, sh, th, ng, oo, oi, and ou, with some others, are taught as distinct signs of sound. All silent letters are printed in italics. And, lastly, a few words of peculiar eccentricity are respelled; as one, (wun,) was, (woz,) thought, (thaut,) (said,) (sed,) &c. A few marks are also used to designate the long and short sounds of the letters in certain cases; but these, marks are avoided wherever they can be.
When the pupil has been taught the sounds of the letters and diagraphs, with the signs that most frequently represent these sounds; when he has learned the syllabic law, and the sounds of the letters before R, he is prepared to read to the phonic text. The silent letters give him no trouble, for he learns to recognize them as dumb in the italic dress. He sees at once the true sound of the letter, for he has been taught from the first to associate that sound with that letter or combination of letters. He finds himself, at once, an independent reader. He need no longer ask a teacher the pronunciation of every word, but finds that the letters signify something that can be depended on; that they express a sound which he can understand, instead of a dozen sounds from which he might select, with no hope of getting at the true sound.
Now for the transition to the common print! There he sees the same words in the same dress. The words respelled are omitted; syllables art not separated, but still the same words with the same orthography meet the eye. The pupil has already become acquainted with these words, and though: the silent letters are no longer italicized, he will pronounce the word correctly, from his previous knowledge of its nature. He has nothing to unlearn. Every step he has taken has been directly to the point. He first learned the laws of the language-its sounds and the most common representatives of those sounds. He learned to understand all that was regular and methodical in the language, and to distinguish the irregular forms from these. Hence his reason was exercised, and he progressed intelligently through contradictions that would otherwise have confounded utterly all sense of method or order. He is now prepared to bring other new words into the same order, and finds himself independent of a master; while others, following the common method of teaching, have scarcely begun to read intelligently. We give below a specimen of the Phonic text:
Extract from the "Phonic Reader," p. 66. Matthew's Gospel, chap. 5.
[A few letters are left unmarked for want of proper type.]
1. And seeing the multitude, he went up in to a mountain; and, when he was set, his disciples came un to him.
2. And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying.
3. Blessed are the poor in spirit; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
4. Blessed are they that mourn; for they shall be comforted.
6. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteous ness (ri tyus new); for they shall be filled. PHILIP.
COLORED PEOPLE EXCLUDED FROM THE FUNERAL PROCESSION.
To the Editors of the Evening Post:
A committee, consisting of some of the most respectable colored citizens, was appointed to wait on the Committee of Arrangements of the Common Council, to have a place assigned the body which they represented; and after two visits they were compelled to leave the Common Council Committee without an answer, and therefore without any assignment of a place in the procession. Supposing that the Citizens' Committee was an associate, and not a subordinate committee, another committee on behalf of the colored citizens waited on Mr. Moses Taylor this morning, to see if arrangements could not be made for us to join the procession from union Square, but the Committee was informed by Mr. Taylor that the committee which he represented did not wish to come in conflict with the Common Council, and he gave it as his opinion that the Citizens Committee was subordinate to that of the Common Council. Mr. Taylor, however, referred the committee waiting on him to a gentleman whom they were unable to see.
The prospect, therefore, is, that every man with a colored face will be refused the much-coveted though melancholy satisfaction of following the corpse of the best public benefactor the country had ever given them. In the lowest forms of civilized life, the most puerile wishes and most insignificant directions of the dead are carried out. Great disrespect to the dead, and sometimes great injury to the feelings of the living, is done when interest or wilfulness stands in the way. And shall the most highly civilized people do what the most barbarous would scorn to be guilty of doing? The last public words of Mr. Lincoln leave no doubt that had he been consulted, he would have urged, as a dying request, that the representatives of the race which had come to the nation's rescue in the hour of peril, and which he had lifted by the most solemn official acts to the dignity of citizens and defenders of the Union, should be allowed the honor of following his remains to the grave.
But, besides this disrespect to what every one knows would have been the wishes of Mr. Lincoln, a great injustice is done the living by this unjust exclusion of us from participating in a sacred duty and high privilege.
It would be an overwhelming thought if we did not believe that great injustice is done to the sentiments and feelings of the better class of our white fellow-citizens, and certainly great injustice is done to a people who are excluded on account of a complexion which they did not give themselves.
SELLA MARTIN, 132 Thompson street.
New York, April, 24, 1865.
The colored citizens of New Orleans own real estate to the value of $15,000,000, and they now have a daily newspaper-The Tribune-printed and edited by colored men.
