THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221, WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial commitee, but are not responsible for any debts of the aper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the world, our country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXXV. NO. 8 BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24,1865. WHOLE NO. 1777. 
<c01>
Selections.
MINUTES
Of an interview between the colored ministers and church officers at savannah with the secretary of war and Major-General Sherman.
HEADQUARTERS OF MAJ.-GEN SHERMAN,
IN THE CITY OF SAVANNAH, GEORGIA.
Thursday Evening, Jan. 12, 1865-8'o clock, P.M..
On the evening of Thursday, the 12th day of January, 1865, the following persons of African descent met, by appointment, to hold an interview with Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War, and Major-General Sherman, to have a conference upon matters relating to the Freedmen of the state of Georgia, to wit.
1. William J. Campbell, aged fifty-one years, born in Savanah; slave until 1849, and then liberated by will of his mistress, Mrs. Mary Maxwell; for ten years pastor of the First Baptist Church of Savannah numbering about eighteen hundred members; average congregation nineteen hundred; the Church property belonging to the congregation, (trustees white,) worth eighteen thousand dollars.
2. John Coz, aged fifty-eight years, born in Savannah; slave until 1849, when he bought his freedom for eleven hundred dollars; pastor of the 2d African Baptist Church: in the ministry fifteen years; congregation twelve hundred and twenty-two persons; Church property worth ten thousand dollars, belonging to the congregation.
3. Ulysses L. Houston, aged forty-one years, born in Grahamsville, South Carolina; slave "until the Union army entered savannah;" owned by Moses Henderson, savannah; and pastor of 3d African Baptist Church, congregation numbering about four hundred; church, property, worth five thousand dollars, belongs to congregation; in the ministry about eight years.
4. William Bentley, aged seventy-two years, born in savanna; slave until twenty-five years of age, when his master, John Waters, emancipated him by will; pastor of Andrew's Chapel, methodist  Episcopal Church, (only one of that denomination in Savannah,)congregation numbering three hundred and sixty members; church property worth about twenty thousand dollars, and is owned by the congregation; been in the ministry about twenty years; a member of Georgia Conference.
5. Charles Bradwell, aged forty years, born in Liberty country, Georgia; slave until 1851; emancipated by will of his master, J. L. Bradwell; local preacher, in charge of the Methodist Episcopal congregation (Andrew's chapel) in the absence of the Minister; in the ministry ten years.
6. William Gaines, aged forty-one years, born in will county, Georgia; slave "until the Union forces freed me;" owned by Robert Toombs, formerly U S Senator and his brother, Gabriel Toombs; local preacher of Methodist Episcopal Church(Andrew's Chapel;) in the ministry sixteen years.
7. James Hill, aged fifty-two years, born in Bryan county, Georgia; slave "up to the time the Union army come in;" owned by H. F. Willings, of Savannah; in the ministry sixteen years.
8. Glasgow Taylor, aged seventy-two years, born in Wilkes country, Georgia; slave "until the Union army come;" owned by A. P. Wetter; is a local preacher of the methodist Episcopal Church,(Andrew'schapel;) in the ministry thirty-five years.
9. Garrison Frazier, aged sixty-seven years, born in Granville county, North Carolina; slave until eight years ago, when he bought himself and wife, paying one thousand dollars in gold and silver; is an ordained minister in the Baptist Church, but his health failing, has now charge of no congregation; has been in the ministry thirty-five years.
10. James Mills, aged fifty-sixty years, born in Savannah free born, and is a licensed preacher of the 1st Baptist Church; has been eight years in the ministry.
Abraham Burke, aged forty-eight years, born in Bryan county, Georgia; slave until twenty years ago, when he bought himself for eight hundred dollars; has been in the ministry about ten years.
12. Arthur Wardell, aged forty-four years, born in Liberty country, Georgia; slave until "freed by the Union army;" owned by A.. A. Solomons, Savannah, and is a licensed minister in the Baptist Church; has been in the ministry six years.
13. Alexander Harris, aged forty-seven years, born in Savannah; free born; licensed minister of 3d African Baptist Church; licensed about one month ago.
14. Andrew Neal, aged sixty-one years, born in Savannah; slave "until the union army liberated me;" owned by Mr. William Gibbons, and has been Deacon in the 3d Baptist Church for ten years.
15.James Porter, aged thirty-nine years, born in Charleston, South Carolina; free born, his mother having purchased her freedom; is Lay-reader and President of the Board of Wardens and Vestry of Saint Stephen's Protestant Episcopal Colored Church in Savannah, has been in communion nine; years; the congregation numbers about two hundred persons; the Church property is worth about ten thousand dollars, and is owned by the congregation.
16. Adolphus Delmotte, aged twenty-eight Years, born in savannah, free born; is a licensed minister of the Missionary Baptist Church of Milledgeville, congregation numbering about three or four hundred persons; has been in the ministry about two years.
17. Jacob Godfrey, aged fifty-seven years, born in Marion, South Carolina; slave "until the union army freed me;" owned by James E. Godfrey, Methodist preacher, now in the rebel army; is a class leader, and steward of Andrew's Chapel since 1836.
18. John Johnson, aged fifty-one years, born in Brvan county, Georgia; slave "up to the time the Union army came here;" owned by W. W. Lincoln, of Savannah; is class leader, and treasurer of Andrew's chapel for sixteen years.
19. Robert N. Taylor, aged fifty-one years, born in Wilkes county, Georgia; slave "to the time the Union army come;" was owned by Augustus P. Wetter, Savannah; and is class leader in Andrew's Chapel-for nine years.
20. James lynch, aged twenty-six years, born in Raltimore, Maryland; free born; is Presiding Elder of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and missionary to the Department of the South; has been seven years in the ministry, and two years in the South.
Garrison Frazier being chosen by the persons present to express their common sentiments upon the matters of inquiry, makes answers to inquiries as follows:-
First State what your understanding is in regard to the Acts of Congress, and President's Lincoln's Proclamation, touching the condition of the colored people in the rebel States.
Answer. So far as I understand President Linoln's Proclamation to the rebellious States, it is, th 
<c02>
if they would lay down their arms and submit to the laws of the United States before the 1st of January, 1863, all should be well, but if they did not, then all the slaves in the rebel States should be free, henceforth and forever; that is what I understood.
Second. State what you understand by slavery, and the freedom that was to be given by the President's Proclamation.
Answer. Slavery is receiving by irresistible power the work of another man, and not by his consent. The freedom, as I understand it, promised by the Proclamation, is taking us from under the yoke of bondage, and placing us where we could reap the fruit of our own labor, and take care of ourselves, and assist the Government in maintaining our freedom.
Third. State in what manner you think you can take care of yourselves, and how you can best assist the Government in maintaining your freedom 
Answer. The way we can best take care of ourselves is to have land, and turn in and till it by our labor-that is by the labor of the women, and children, and old men-and we can soon maintain ourselves, and have something to spare; and to assist the Government, the young men should enlist in the service of the Government, and serve in such manner as they may be wanted-(the rebels told us that they piled them up, and made-batteries of them, and sold them to Cuba; but we don't believe that.) We want to be placed on land until we are able to buy it, and make it our own.
Fourth. State in what manner you would rather live, whether scattered among the whites, or in colonies by yourselves.
Answer. I would prefer to live by ourselves, for there is a prejudice against us in the South that will take years to get over; but I do not know that I can answer for my brethren.
[Mr. Lynch says be thinks they should not be separated, but live together. All the other persons present being questioned, one by one, answer that they agree with "brother Frazier."]
Fifth. Do you think that there is intelligence enough among the slaves of the South to maintain themselves under the Government of the United States, and the equal protection of its laws, and maintain good and peaceable relations among yourselves and with your neighbors?
Answer. I think there is sufficient intelligence among us to do so.
Sixth. State what is the feeling of the black population of the South towards the Government of the United States; what is the understanding in respect to the present war, its causes and object, and their disposition to aid either side; state fully your views.
Answer. I think you will find there is thousands that are willing to make any sacrifice to assist the Government of the United States, while there is also many that are not willing to take up arms. I do not suppose there is a dozen men that is opposed to the Government. I understand, as to the war, that the South is the aggressor. President Lincoln was elected President by a majority of the United States, which guaranteed him the right of holding the office, and exercising that right over the whole United States. The South, without knowing what be would do, rebelled. The war was commenced by the rebels before he came into office. The object of the war was not, at first, to give the slaves their freedom; but the sole object of the war was, at first, to bring the rebellious States back into the Union, and their loyalty to the laws of the United States. Afterwards, knowing the value that was set on the slaves by the rebels, the President thought that his Proclamation would stimulate them to lay down their arms, reduce them to obedience, and help to bring back the rebel States; and their not doing so has now made the freedom of the slaves a part of the war. It is my opinion that there is not a man in this city that could be started to help the rebels one inch, for that would be suicide. There was two black men left with the rebels, because they had taken an active part for the rebels, and thought something might befall them if they staid behind, but there is not another man. If the prayers that have gone up for the Union army could be read out, you would not get through them these two week 
Seventh. State whether the sentiments you now express are those only of the colored people in the city, or do they extend to the colored population through the country, and what are your means of knowing the sentiments of those living in the country.
Answer. I think the sentiments are the same among the colored people of the State. My opinion is formed by personal communication in the course of my ministry, and also from the thousands that followed the Union army, leaving their homes and undergoing suffering. I did not think there would be so many; the number surpassed my expectation.
Eighth. If the rebel leaders were to arm the slaves, what would be its effect?
Answer. I think they would fight as long as they were before the bagoncet and just as soon as they could get away they would desert, in my opinion.
Ninth What, in your opinion, is the feeling of the colored people about enlisting and serving as soldiers of the United States, and what kind of military service do they prefer?
Answer. A large number have gone, as soldiers to Port Royal to be drilled and put in the service, and I think there is thousands of the young men that will enlist; there is something about them that, perhaps, is wrong; they have suffered so long from the rebels, that they want to meet and have a chance with them in the field. Some of them want to shoulder the musket, others want to go into the Quartermaster or the Commissary's service.
Tenth. Do you understand the mode of enlistment of colored persons in the rebel States, by State agents, under the act of Congress? If yea, state what your understanding is.
Answer. My understanding is that colored persons enlisted by State agents are enlisted as substitutes, and give credit to the States, and do not swell the army, because every black man enlisted by a State agent leaves a white man at home; and, also, that larger bounties are given or promised by the State agents than are given by the States. The great object should be to push through this rebellion the shortest way, and there seems to be something wanting in the enlistment by State agents, for it don't strengthen the army, but takes one away for every colored man enlisted.
Eleventh. State what, in your opinion, is the best way to enlist colored men for soldiers.
Answer. I think, sir, that all compulsory operations should be put a stop to. The ministers would talk to them, and the young men would enlist. It is my opinion that it would be far better for the State agents to stay at home, and the enlistments to be made for the United States under the direction of General Sherman.
In the absence of General Sherman, the following question was asked:
Twelfth. State what is the feeling of the colored people in regard to General Sherman, and how far

<c03>
do they regard his sentiments and actions as friendly to their rights and interests, or otherwise.
Answer. We looked upon General Sherman, prior to his arrival, as a man, in the providence of God, specially set apart to accomplish this work, and we unanimously felt inexpressible gratitude to him, looking upon him as a man that should be honored for the faithful performance of his duty. Some of as called upon him immediately upon his arrival, and it is probable he did not meet the Secretary with more courtesy than he met us. His conduct and deportment towards us characterized him as a friend and a gentleman. We have confidence in General Sherman, and think that what concerns us could not be under better hands. This is our opinion now from the short acquaintance and intercourse we have had.
(Mr. Lynch states that, with his limited acquaintance with General Sherman, he is unwilling to express an opinion. All others present declare their agreement with Mr. Frazier about General Sherman.]
Some conversation upon general subjects relating to General Sherman's march then ensued, of which no note was taken.
WAR DEPARTMENT.
ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
Washington, February 1, 1865.
I do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and faithful report of the questions and answers made by the colored ministers and church members of Savannah, in my presence and hearing at the chambers of Major-General Sherman, on the evening of Thursday, the 12th day of January, 1865. The questions of General Sherman and the Secretary of War were reduced to writing, and read to the persons present. The answers were made by the Reverend Garrison Frazier, who was selected by the other ministers and church members to answer for them. The answers were written down in his exact words, and read over to the others, who, one by one, expressed his concurrence or dissent, as above set forth.
E. D. TOWNSEND,
Ass't. Adj't-General.
GERRIT SMITH TO GENERAL ASHLEY.
The Spirit of Caste the Root of the Evil-Kill the Tree on which Slavery grows-Negro nor Nation safe without Negro Suffrage-No Reconstruction, no Peace, without Negro Suffrage.
PETERBORO, February 6th, 1865.
HON. J. M. ASHLEY, M. C.
MY DEAR SIR,-Many are congratulating me on the success of the Anti-Slavery Amendment in your House. I thank them. Nevertheless, I would remind them that, in my judgment, the Constitution does already forbid slavery; and that, in my judgment, Congress has the power to abolish it; and, moreover, that my heart was set on a far higher and broader work than the abolition of slavery.
1st. I have never denied that some of the framers of the Constitution sought to smuggle slavery into it; but such a crime could not be smuggled into it. Unless brought into it openly and plainly, it could not be brought into it at all. This all know, who know the canon of legal interpretation. The honest, unsuspecting masses, who voted the Constitution, are not to be charged with having voted for abominations concealed in it-since such could not be in it without lying undisguised upon its surface. But not upon its surface is slavery to be seen; nor below it can anything be found which can be legally interpreted to mean slavery.
Nevertheless, I was not opposed to, but in favor of, an Amendment of the Constitution, which should in plain, literal terms forbid slavery. The fact that both the Courts and the Legislatures had, during our whole national existence, perverted the Constitution to the service of slavery, made such an Amendment proper. I would, however, have had it so framed as to declare, or at least imply, that the Constitution is itself against slavery. I am aware that you, too, who hold the Constitution to be clear of slavery, would have preferred an Amendment different from that which you have labored so perseveringly and successfully, and with so great and enduring honor to yourself, to carry through your House.
2nd. I do not claim that Congress can permanently abolish slavery. If, in the straits of war, it become necessary that we be relieved of it, Congress can then put it away, and put it away far more quickly than it could be done by amending the Constitution. To the Constitution and the Courts must we look for the permanent abolition of slavery.
3d. In a printed letter of 5th December last, to Senator Sumner, I said: "But why should we stop with an Anti-Slavery Amendment? Immeasurably more needed is an Amendment to the effect that race or origin shall not work a forfeiture of any civil or political rights. Even an Anti-Slavery Amendment may not be permanent. A race whilst deprived of rights which other races enjoy, can have no reasonable assurance that it will be protected even against slavery. But make it equal with them in rights, and it will be able to protect itself." This extract indicates how much higher and broader was my aim than the mere abolition of slavery.
It is not strictly proper to say that God's bloody and horrid controversy with this nation is because of her slaveholding. It is because of her contempt of one of the varieties or races of His children. Her slaveholding is but one of her numberless expressions of this contempt. The exclusion of the Negro from the school, the pew, the cemetery, the car, the table, the witness-stand, the jury-box-these are but so many manifestations of it. So, too, when a State enacts law against the intermarriage of blacks and whites, it is but indulging itself in an outbreak of this same spirit. And so is it, too, when, in denying the negro a home within its limits, it virtually denies God's child a place on God's earth. I have sometimes doubted whether it be this denial or slave-holding that is the worst production of the caste-spirit-the worst of the fruits which grow upon this tree of caste-contempt.
Our nation is disposed to compound in respect to her debt to the negro. She will liberate him from slavery, but not from her contempt. God is, however, showing us, in his terrible judgments upon us, that He exacts the full payment of this debt. He will not be pacified by our abolition of slavery; nor, indeed, by our plucking away any number of the evil fruits which so thickly cover the wide-spread branches of this caste-tree. He requires us to cut down the tree; and cease, not only from the infernal outgrowths of our contempt for his children, but from the infernal contempt itself.
I said that our nation is disposed to compound by giving up slavery. But she hasn't it to give up. It is already virtually dead. It fell in the fall of Sumter. The slaveholders have themselves abolished slavery. That would have been a proud work in the bands of the abolitionists; and, therefore, God would not let them perform it. In the hands of the

<c04>
slaveholders, no other work could be so humiliating; and, therefore, He made the slaveholders perform it.
The passing of the Reconstruction Bill now before Congress will justify the continued fear that this nation is lost; for it will show, not only that she is wicked enough to give up her friends and saviors to destruction, but that she is infatuated enough to court her own destruction. This Bill not only shuts out black men from all part in constructing the organic law of the State; but whilst it permits the great mass of disloyal white men to vote under that law, it makes no provision that any black men, not even such of them as are eminent for loyalty, virtue and intelligence, shall be allowed to do so. Did ever insanity and ingratitude go further? To the race that broke up our nation, and that has murdered hundreds of thousands of us, we propose to accord all political power; but the race that sympathises with us, fights for us, saves us, we have the heart to exclude from all political power. In other words, we propose to throw our friends and saviors helpless at the feet of those who are both their enemies and ours. What ingratitude on the one hand, and what recklessness of our country's safety on the other!
Whilst I am writing to you, the Peace Folly, rival of the Reconstruction Folly, is again in full blast. What will come of it, this time? Just what has always come of it before. In answer to our propositions for Peace, the Southern leaders have always claimed that we shall recognize Southern Independence. But will not such an answer, if given to the President in person, arouse the North to mightier efforts for the restoration of the Union? No. Here and there an individual, who has hitherto affected to believe that the Southern leaders would, under proper appliances, be brought to consent to the restoration, might now affect to be converted to the opposite view; but his affectation would have no importance. The people of the North, if not hopelessly stupid, know that the Southern leaders are tyrants of the most tyrannical type; that to rule is the law of their existence; that they will never consent to be ruled; and that they never will be ruled until they are conquered.
I can conceive of no good results from the present repetition of this Peace Folly. Amongst its evil results is, 1st, the demoralizing of the people. Especially does it weaken their war spirit, and hold them back from a prompt, cordial, resolute response to the President's Call for three hundred thousand more soldiers. 2nd. Our national dignity and influence are wasted by this running hither and thither of volunteers and emissaries, and even of the President and Secretary of State, to inquire on what terms the Rebels will graciously condescend to be at Peace with us. 3d. This Peace Folly or Peace Frenzy, as it might also be called, dishonors and damages our country's cause. That cause, perfectly and sublimely just, forbids all concessions to our foes. But even to treat with them for Peace is a dishonoring and damaging concession. I much fear, however, this is not the only nor the greatest concession we are in danger of. The President and the Secretary of State are kind-hearted, and hence they are weary of this great expenditure of treasure and blood. They are intensely patriotic, and hence they are impatient for the restoration of the Union. In the light of these and other facts is it that I cannot but fear that they are making quite too generous offers, in order to tempt the return of the Rebels. What if it shall turn out that they are not exacting a certain, immediate and entire surrender of slavery, or, (which is worse,) that they are consenting to let the political power of the South go into the hands of her disloyal whites, to the exclusion of her loyal blacks-would not the holding out of such a bribe, whether it be or be not accepted, go far to reduce the moral strength of our cause? The bribe would, as in effect I have already argued, be rejected-the thorough tyrant yielding to no temptation to come under any other rule than his own. I say nothing further in this connection of the President and Secretary of State, both of whom I honor and am quick to defend, than that I have not been able to perceive what else could prompt their visit to the Rebels than the purpose of making them offers which both the honor and the safety of the nation forbid being made.
I have spoken disparagingly both of the Peace movement and the Reconstruction movement. They are both to be condemned, if only for their prematureness. Neither should have been so much as thought of until the enemy was conquered. Until then, the word "Peace" should, if possible, have been forgotten by us. The unconditional submission of those who, without the slightest cause or provocation, made war upon us-the unconditional submission of the savages, who have murdered tens of thousands of prisoners-should be our only condition of Peace.
The Peace that would come from the unconditional submission of these savages would end the war. No other will. Such a Peace, as I strongly fear the President and Secretary of State are disposed to consent to, would but prepare the way for a worse war. Oh, America! would God that thou didst know "in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace!"
With great regard, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
EARLY ANTI-SLAVERY.
It is a very curious fact in the history of public opinion, that the mass of people who never think or act with early reformers gradually come to persuade themselves, as the reformation goes on and grows popular, that they were always of that party, or atleast always sympathized with its spirit. We have no descendants to-day of the Tories of the Revolution. Twenty years hence, there will not be a man in all the North who favored secession, or cherished any sympathy with rebels! Even now it is rare to meet one who has ever wished well to slavery, or desired anything but its final abolition! The present aiders and abettors of rebellion in Congress, or out of it, will, twenty, aye, ten years hence, prove to you that it was not the rebellion they wished to promote, but they were anxious to prevent the over-throw of the Constitution and the establishment of a military despotism!
While men are thus very lenient towards themselves, they are apt to be quite as unjust towards their neighbors. Our self-conceit sometimes makes us a little envious of those who have done a work which, probably, is likely to honor them, and which we, in our indolence or opposition altogether failed to perform, or even assist in performing.
We have what seems to us a striking illustration of this phase of human weakness in an article which appeared some time ago in the New York Daily Times, and was reproduced with singular approbation in the New York Observer. The aim of the article, which is too long to be copied in these columns, was to show, as the Observer expresses it, "that the English abolitionist, George Thompson, and the Garrisonian school, are not entitled to any gratitude for their efforts to promote disunion and abolition." The thought is very neatly turned, and is worthy of a well-trained politician. "Disunion and abolition!" as if the first object-the great pur-

<c05>
pose of these men was to effect disunion; and abolition was only a secondary and insignificant matter!
"These men," says the Times. "labored exactly for the same end for which John C. Calhoun labored-the dissolution of the Union between the non-slaveholding and the slaveholding States. Their moral purpose differed from his, out their political purpose was exactly the same. In idea opposed as widely as the poles, in action they worked shoulder to shoulder. Calhoun endeavored to break up the Union to get loose from slavery. Slavery made one a disunion man; anti-slavery the other. Yet they both worked, each in his own way, with entire devotion to the common object."
The conclusion to which this zealous partizan comes, and which its religious coadjutor warmly approves, is, that Garrison and his school, as it is called, not only did nothing to promote emancipation, but their whole influence tended only to retard it!
"We have not a particle of doubt," continues the Times, "that there was not a year in the 25 years preceding the rebellion, when the anti-slavery cause in this country would not have further advanced, and been in every respect better off, had William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips and George Thompson, or disunion abolition speakers and writers like them, never existed."
To all this the Observer adds a hearty Amen, and proceeds to exhibit the imposing fact in another phase:
"It would be an easy task to go back to the early history of the country, and show, as the Observer has again and again done in times past, that the strong, steady and prevailing current of sentiment among the good men in the North and South has been anti-slavery from the beginning. We are well aware that it has been, and will yet be assumed by the ignorant and prejudiced, that hearty opposition to the system was confined almost entirely to those who were loudest in invective. We venture to say that their opposition was least of all to be accounted of as contributing to any solid result. They were but the foam on the crest of the wave, more demonstrative, but least weighty. The strong under-current of American sentiment and feeling has, from the first, been one of opposition to slavery. The testimony to this is abundantly furnished by historical facts."
We fear that we belong to the pretty large party of "ignorant and prejudiced" persons here referred to; and to prove it, we will state what we suppose to be quite incontestable facts, as follows:
1. That "Garrison and his school" stand among living anti-slavery men, not only foremost in point of time, but also as regards their profound hatred of the accursed institution; their tireless denunciation of it and its abettors; and their bitter, relentless war upon it, regardless of private interests, public reputation, or life itself. Never, since the age of the apostles, have men arrayed themselves-from mere love of principle and their fellow-men-from hatred of injustice and oppression-against a giant wrong, hedged round with power, rendered popular by interests, and sanctified by a thousand pious lies, with a more self-sacrificing spirit or with a more earnest devotion than these men have, through the third part of a century, exhibited. We have no words to express our admiration of that moral heroism, which, through so many years of conflict and obloquy, has unfalteringly pushed its way.
That "Garrison and his school" never for a moment desired disunion for itself, and regarded it only as the lesser evil of two, that seemed to them, at times, presented to their choice. They saw slavery gradually but surely working its way into power; they saw political parties formed and bending about it; they saw the Government perverted to advance the interests of slavery, and the Constitution itself, which was formed to promote liberty and secure justice, made the instrument of bondage and oppression. Under the all-pervading influence of this Upas, they saw the pulpit become the apologist of this hoary wrong, and even the Bible made to utter its sanction to it! Is it wonderful that men, touched and penetrated as they were with a sense of this great villany, should have wished for the dissolution of the Union, for anything indeed that might restore the people to moral sanity, and lead them back to reverence for Right and God? Garrison and his school were called fanatics; they were thought to be wild, heady men, carried away by extravagance, and more the subjects of a lunatic asylum than objects of respect. But who, think you, now, were the madmen, those who were quietly warming the viper in their bosom, or they who saw the folly, and cried out against it? We are to-day paying the terrible penalty of our national madness and sin.
3. Had it not been for Garrison and his school, had the interests and salvation of the country been confided to the counsels and keeping of the Times and the Observer, and those who sympathized with them, God only knows what our condition would now have been. Say what you will of their extravagance, of their severity, of their irreligion, of their want of patriotism, and hatred of a Union of right and wrong, of liberty and slavery, it cannot in justice be denied that they have been, under God, our pioneers out of the slough into which we were sinking. They kept alive a strong anti-slavery sentiment, which else where was dying out, and roused, as with the voice of a trumpet, the sleeping souls of millions to a conflict which is now coming to an end; which, beginning in the thoughts of a single heart, it may be, is now being settled on the great battle-field of a mighty nation.
God be thanked for Garrison and his school! We would gladly share the honor that history will yet award them. We do not assume that they were perfect. They had the passions of other men; but if they possess great faults, they also share great virtues, which posterity will acknowledge, and the spirit of justice and liberty will consecrate.-Ex. change paper.

THE JUBILEE MEETING IN MUSIC HALL.
It was a wonderful spectacle witnessed at the Music Hall on Saturday evening; that vast audience room crowded from the ceiling to the floor by persons who paid a quarter of a dollar for admission to a meeting gotten up on short notice. It was the out-gush of joyous enthusiasm, the beat of the popular heart, the cry of "victory" from the lips of a people keeping step with the march of the century.
The most soul-stirring appeal of that meeting was one not marked in the programme; it was the song of the black man who was introduced by the president, Hon. Josiah Quincy, apparently on the spur of the occasion. He put his heart into his song; that song to appropriate, so sacred; the old strain wafted down from the age of Moses and Miriam, and from the shores that rang with the music of the emancipated hosts,-
"Sound the loud timbrel o'er Egypt's dark sea."
Mr. Rue's voice was clear and strong; expressive, too, of tenderness and pathos. He was listened to in breathless silence until the chorus of the third verse brought the whole assembly into vocal harmony. The great organ has never sounded forth any mighty
<c06>
peal that reached farther than that to the deep springs of feeling in human nature.
It was a memorable hour. Let the distant reader just imagine that vast platform crowded with men of all creeds, parties and complexions; let him think of Mr. Quincy, Dr. Kirk, Mr. Manning of the Old South, Win. Lloyd Garrison and Gen. Butler, sitting together as brothers of one heart and soul, children of one mother, the country of their common love, bound together by their devotion to one great aim, the cause of humanity and universal freedom. This combination of representative men presented to every thoughtful mind a scene worth studying as significant of a new and wonderful future. Who that gazed upon it was not impressed with the thought that we had all reached the outmost limit of the old political past; had all crossed the farthest edge of the boundary line, and had emerged from its murky haze into the effulgence of a new era? That line, to our view, was as clearly marked as the water line of that Red Sea where Miriam saw old Pharaoh and his hosts, his chariots, horses and riders, buried in the watery sepulchre. The Egyptian past is dead and gone. The line can never be recrossed. The rod of God will never open the waves again to let Israel back dry shod. The wilderness, with its burning wastes and fiery serpents, may be before us; but the promised land is before us also. Then welcome the conflicts that await us! They are appointed for our education, to qualify us for the inheritance of rest, peace and plenty, that we may learn to use wealth and power in kindly Christian ministries to all the kindreds and tribes of men.
In order to fulfill this glorious destination, we must be faithful to the freedmen, whose moral fortunes God has identified with our own. To them we must be generous as well as just. We must acknowledge them as men, citizens and brothers. This great truth is couched in that phrase which was uttered in our President's Decree of Emancipation. That phrase was "military necessity." Think of it! The infernal rebel power struck at the flag that enfolded our nationality. To save that, to save ourselves, we were obliged to save the colored race. With them we must rise or fall. Their destinies and ours were linked by a Divine skill. We were obliged to grasp them in our embrace while struggling for life, or with them gravitate to a fathomless abyss. That was the meaning of "military necessity"!
And now that we stand with them upon the mountain height in the balmy air and sunlight of freedom, we dare not, cannot let them go. We must study their interests; we most provide for their education; we must satisfy their intense aspirations for knowledge and progress; we must teach them the arts of self-support, and give them a fair chance to "take care of themselves." Every town should have its auxiliary Freedmen's Aid Society; and every Christian denomination, and every church, yea, every family should cherish a laudable ambition to do its share of work in this great service that is now attracting the thoughts and sympathies of Christendom.-HERBERT.-(Rev. Dr. Hague in the Boston Watchman and Reflector.)
THE TRUE RADICAL GRIT.
The new Governor of Missouri, Thomas C. Fletcher, is the man for the times. We have read with intense interest and complete satisfaction his Inaugural Message, delivered on the 2d of January. It is of the true radical grit, and thoroughly loyal, of course. A radical hater of savery is, from the very nature of things, loyal, and a radical hater of slavery-engendered rebellion. With the incoming of the new State Administration at the head of which stands Gov. Fletcher, a new era of prosperity, happiness, and honor for Missouri has commenced. We like the Governor's Inaugural so well, that we cannot forbear letting our readers have the privilege ofsharing in our satisfaction by perusing the following passage, which is all aglow with the holy enthusiasm of Liberty:-
In the name of Truth, of Justice, of Freedom, and of Progress, God has permitted us a political triumph, bringing with it the solemn responsibility of promoting those great principles by an enforcement of the fundamental law for securing the peace, happiness and prosperity of the people of the State.
Through the blood and fire of a civil war, we hare attained to a new era, effulgent with the glory of the decree of the people, in their sovereign capacity, emancipating themselves from servitude to principles and policies which have weighed down their energies, opposed barriers to their progress, and armed the hand of treason for shedding of patriot blood.
The only instance in the world's history of a rebellion against an existing government, in the name and for the sake of slavery, has resulted in the enlargement of liberty; and the retributive Nemesis has sent the system of slavery crashing down to hopeless destruction, in the conflagration of a civil strife lighted by its own hand.
All men fit to be citizens and partakers of the common rights accorded men in civilized communities must regard, and treat as final and conclusive, the recent deliberate and solemn verdict of the people of Missouri, rendered, in the full exercise of reason restored by the calamities of the war, in favor of closing the gates of Janus, and restoring the power of the civil law, and against the mad attempts to defy the authority of the National Government. The civilized world, which has been observant of, not leas than our own community which has been participant in, this unparalleled conflict, must in that verdict acknowledge that the position of Missouri in the van of free and progressive States whose attachment to the Union defies earthly power to rend, is as enduring as our own eternal and solid mountains of iron, which, based in the deep centre of our State, lift their firm brows toward the sky in colossal majesty.
Behind us we leave the wrecks of old institutions, and all the bitter memories of the terrible past; retaining only the lessons of wisdom our experience of them has taught us. Before us, glowing with promise and fruitful with hope, is the mighty, future; but be assured, that in re-adjusting the frame work of our torn community to its requirements, we shall need, to enable us to grasp that promise and realize that hope, all the energies of our truest and best citizens.
In point of physical advantage, in the- combination of all the elements of wealth, in the invitations that are held out to enterprise, and in the magnificent and swift rewards that wait on industry, no area on the western Continent containing, an equal number of square miles can compare will our own State. While embracing a greater number of acres of good agricultural land than any other State in the Union, Missouri has more iron than all the other States combined; lead in greater quantities than elsewhere discovered in the world; mines of cobalt and zinc, and lodes of copper; whole districts of country underlaid with strata of coal; almost illimitable forests of the most useful timber, including the giant resiniferous pine, inviting the band of un <w> industry and liberal enterprise to gather
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
their wealth; prairie forest diversified everywhere by streams affording unequalled water-power; one of the largest rivers of the world flowing through her centre; and another, washing the whole length of her border.
In contemplating our natural resources, gratitude for their bestowment and pride in their possession struggle for the ascendency; and we are more grateful and prouder still, in reflecting upon the heroic resolution with which our noble State has shaken off a thraldom fatal to prosperity and at war with justice-has buried the dead past, and advanced the standard of freedom as at the emblem of her future faith. We have every reason to incite as henceforth to great achievement. We have a State that promises to be the grand central figure of a cluster of Republics victoriously emergent, with new splendor, from the recent conflict of industrial systems. There is enough of accomplishment already attained to nerve us on to the labor of regenerating our political structure, so as to cause it to blaze in the sight of the nation! of the earth, the brightest gem in the diadem of liberty.
Henceforth Missouri shall be an asylum for all nationalities and races; the repository of wealth, and a theatre for the development of the labor and enterprise of the hand and spirit of industry; and the home of free thought, free speech, and a free press, where the prejudices of caste and class have no legal embodiment or political encouragement. She shall be a central mart for the interchange of the products of the North and the South, the East and the West, through the rivers of our great basin, and the system of railways centering in her metropolis. She shall be a highway for the commerce of the two oceans, borne by the inland transit lines that carry the freights between Europe and Asia. She shall proffer a secure and guarded repose to all consciences and all religious beliefs, untied by any secular control, yet upheld and encircled by public sentiment upon which faith in God has taken a new hold from the experiences of an unparalleled national preservation.
Let it be announced that, in the new era which has come, ours is to be the first of States, with the largest freedom and the widest charities. Let ours be a State where, with the administration of inflexible justice, the abandonment of mere partyisms, and the domination of industrial politics, all the advancements of statute law progress towards combining labor and capital, rather than placing them in the cruel antagonisms of the past; where the light of hope is shut out by the fundamental law from no human being, of whatever race, creed or color, but where a free people-heeding the stroke of inevitable destiny on the horologe of time in the great crisis of changeful progress-guards the right of permitting the position and privileges of every man to be such as his virtues, talents, education, patriotism, enterprise, industry, courage or achievements may confer upon him.
The victorious armies of the Republic are with deadly thrusts piercing the enemy on every side. The giant rebellion, bleeding at every pore, begins to reel and faint. Our Sherman, with his veteran braves, stands on the ocean’s beach, gazes back at the last deep mortal wound inflicted, and awaits only to see if another is necessary. The legions of Grant, Butler, Sheridan, Thomas and Canby are rushing on to complete the work; the coining springtime will bring the final blow, and amid the battle-cry of freedom, the death of rebellion will be consummated, and blessed peace once more breathe its benisons over the land.

Correspondence of the Boston Traveller.
EMANCIPATION CELEBRATION IN NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS, Jan 27.
Last Tuesday (the 24th) was a memorable day in New Orleans. In honor of the emancipation acts of Maryland and Missouri, Gov. Hahn proclaimed a general holiday throughout the State, and the city officers co-operated with him in the effort to give every opportunity to the freedmen to celebrate the occasion. A large gathering, composed mostly of freedmen, assembled in the forenoon in Lafayette Square, and there listened to the eloquent and stirring remarks of Mr. Conway, the superintendent of free labor in the Department of the Gulf. The speech of Mr. Conway was forcible, pointed and racy, adapted to the audience and the subject. Pointing to a large church edifice near by, he said, ”In that temple of God preached Dr. Palmer, who distorted the Word of Life to prove that it is our right and our duty to buy and sell our fellow-beings. Before Farragut passed the forts, he declared publicly that he would walk knee-deep in blood before he would surrender to the Yankees. When the news came that the fleet was coming up the river, he seized his valise, and hurried away to Jackson depot, knee-deep in mud.”
It was indeed a most soul-inspiriting day for every lover of human rights. There, in the very heart of the Crescent City, in the public square that for so many years has been the breathing-place of oppression in its most hideous form, under the shadow of the church where Dr. Palmer has taught that God created black men slaves and unequal, in the sight of former slave-marts and auction-blocks, were collected five thousand ransomed souls, making the air resound with cheers and hurrahs, their joy for their own deliverance and for that of their brethren thousands of miles away.
If so much has been done here in these few years, what may we not expect in the good time coming? As I looked at the happy procession of freedmen marching through the streets, I almost wanted to get some charcoal and paint my face so as to be among the aristocracy. White folks were at a discount for that one day, at least.
Everywhere, and at all times during the day, the “everlasting nigger” was conspicuous. Colored speakers on the platform, in the squares; colored men, women and children, crowded fifty deep around the stand, leaving the Anglo-Saxon out in the cold; colored regiments marching in the procession and acting as police on the ground-and all passed off peacefully and joyously. I know of no sublimer sight that this great war has yet afforded than that of the freedmen’s gathering on Lafayette Square. The man who, after witnessing that assembly, could entertain any thought of negotiating a peace without terminating slavery, must be a coldhearted traitor to his country and an ingrate to the race. MEDICUS.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
It is not now necessary to inquire what malign influence operated upon the mind of the President to keep him so long in opposition to the Radicals of Missouri. The fact that such opposition existed, and yielded its fruits in the unhappy administration policy in this State, furnishes only the stronger reason why justice should now be done Mr. Lincoln by radical men, in view of his latter dealings with them. We well remember, soon after the Baltimore Convention, which was an overwhelmingly radical body, had given Mr. Lincoln its nomination with unexampled unanimity and enthusiasm, that we were met with the reproach that the President, in view of his conservative record, could not be trusted on the platform of that Convention. We were told that to support him, even on that basis, was voluntary stultification, leading only to humiliation and disappointment in the end.
We did trust him, and the nation trusted him, The nation had become radicalized, and became it was radical, Abraham Lincoln was re-elected President of the United States. The entire conservatism of the country rallied about his opponent, General George B. McClellan, and went down with him. If it had been true, therefore, that Mr. Lincoln was false-hearted towards the Radicals of the country, the great mass of his supporters placed themselves in a position to be bitterly deceived. But what has been the result? Has Mr. Lincoln proved unfaithful to the conditions of the Baltimore platform, and which he took as pledges upon himself, when be accepted the nomination that accompanied that platform? We certainly have heard no such charge, although months have elapsed since the election even from those who most strenuously accused us of short-sightedness in confiding in him in the first place. So far as Mr. Lincoln’s policy, from the day the Baltimire Convention adjourned, can be taken as proof of his real views and purposes, no one can conclude that aught but the most perfect sincerity has ruled in all his acts. In the Baltimore Convention the conservatism of the Blairs was condemned, and Mr. Lincoln removed Montgomery Blair from his cabinet. In the Baltimore Convention, the Radicals of Missouri, having secured recognition and indorsement, charged a large share of their grievances, and without doubt correctly, to the influence of Edward Bates, and Mr. Lincoln accordingly soon disposes of Mr. Bates. In the Baltimore Con-
<c02>
vention there was a strong feeling in favor of Secretary Chase, and nowhere, perhaps, was that feeling so strong as among the Radicals of Missouri, and what has Mr. Lincoln done but elevate Mr. Chase, rival as he was, and not altogether a friendly one, to the highest civil position in the Government, save the one which he held himself? This was done, too, after Mr. Lincoln was re-elected, and no longer stood in need of votes, either from Radicals or Conservatives.
These are acts which deserve to be recognized, because they are significant of more than mere political sagacity and management. They demonstrate a sincerity and resoluteness of purpose that go deeper down than either official or personal policy. They indicate a man of truthful ness and courage. We have, in our profession of journalism, said harsh things of President Lincoln, when be deviated, in his official conduct, from the course of things which we deemed to be wise and just; nor should we hesitate to criticise his acts again, should they be such as our judgment disapproved; but the same spirit which led us to condemn, when we thought the President wrong, leads us now to approve, when we believe him to be right. Nor, in this judgment, do we conceive ourselves to differ from the great mass of the Radical party of Missouri. That party gave its vote to Abraham Lincoln, in the hope and trust that he would prove true to his obligation as a candidate, and, thus far, it has not regretted the step.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

THE FREEDMEN OF LOUISIANA.
LETTER FROM MAJOR GENERAL BANKS.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) 30th January, 1865
MY DEAR SIR-It gives me great pleasure to reply to the questions contained in your letter. I should be glad to present to you some suggestions upon the general condition of affairs, but will seek another opportunity.
In Louisiana there seemed, at the opening of 1863, to be good reasons for taking action upon the subject of Industry, which did not apply to any part of the country which I have seen. The President's Proclamation of Emancipation excepted that portion of the State occupied from its operation; consequently, the negro population, so far as the law was concerned, were in an unchanged condition. Their owners sought to enforce their rights under the law, and according to the terms of the Proclamation. The negroes, on the other hand, claimed their liberty, and proposed to celebrate their emancipation on the 1st January, 1863. To prevent a disturbance between these parties, both of which had apparent right,-one in theory, and the other in fact,-one under the President's Proclamation, which seemed to recognize their rights, and was doubtless intended to do so, and the other from the actual condition of things, which made it impossible for any master to enforce his rights, whatever they were, to any slave.
I at once decided that, as between these parties, my course was clear. The right of the master was a right without remedy. The privileges of the negro, whether well founded in theory or not, were such that it was impossible to deprive him of them. My order, therefore, was an actual practical emancipation of all the negroes of Louisiana, in spite of the Proclamation, which, by an exception, confirmed the rights of owners. There is something to be said on both sides of this question; but as it was finished by my decision, I leave it.
There were many reasons why a positive determination should be at once made. One I have named: to quiet the public mind-to restrain owners in assertion of their claims, and secure the negroes in the undisturbed possession of their liberty. Besides this, of the public peace, there was a consideration, in my opinion, more important. The French Empire claims, under the treaty of 1803, to have resumed the power to enforce certain guarantees, secured to French subjects by that treaty. We say that the stipulation was complied with, and the right of France extinguished by the admission of Louisiana in 1812. The French regard it as a continuing authority. The people of Louisiana so regarded it. Apprehensive of trouble in January, they appealed to the French officers representing the government in American waters, to protect them. There is always, usually rather, a French frigate in the Mississippi. At this time, Admiral Reynaud, commanding alt the naval forces of France in American waters, came to New Orleans. He told me he came “for the protection of his people, at their request.”
I am, of course, aware what can be said of an act of this character, but do not now enter into that discussion. I told him that, without deciding upon the ultimate rights of former slave owners, I could not allow them to attempt to enforce their claims, nor could I do it for them; but that I intended that the public peace should be preserved; and while no one could be allowed to interfere with the negroes, they, in turn, would not be allowed by interference with others to excite apprehension, or disturb the peace. With this conclusion, the admiral was satisfied, and said he should leave sooner than he had intended, and should inform his people that they had no cause for alarm. So much for the status of the negro in Louisiana.
Now for his condition. Under the state of things I have described, there was an end to regular employment. The negroes, who had no permanent homes, flocked to the military garrisons or posts for support. The reasons why they should not be allowed to remain there, I will briefly present to you. They relate, 1st to their condition; 2d to their influence upon the public health-upon the army-upon the public service.
Their condition was that of abject misery. I have myself seen at Baton Rouge, in one of these negro quarters, or contraband camps, as they were called, one hundred and fifty men, women and children-in every possible condition of misery-cooking, eating, drinking, sleeping, sickening and dying in one room, with a fire built in its centre on the floor, without chimney, where all phases of this sad history occurred. The same scene was witnessed at every military post -in some places better, in others worse than I describe. There was but one result for the negroes- that was death.
Its influence upon the army was that of certain demoralization. Every camp was filled with negro women, and intercourse between the sexes was the certain precursor of disease and death.
The public health has been a matter of paramount importance in Louisiana. In other States, it is a question affecting individuals merely; here it was a question of government. If Northern people could not reside in the South, the government must fall into uncertain hands. If, on the contrary, New Orleans and the prominent towns could be made as healthy as the towns of New York or Illinois, all questions connected with the future government were at once solved. It was for this reason that such care was given to this subject. No point was neglected, possibly affecting the public health. The streets were cleansed; the dwellings of the poor improved; the burial of the dead regulated; and the canals constructed for drainage, &c, deepened., It was impossible to overlook the sources of contagion, corruption and disease to all classes, that were seen in the contraband quarters-as they were called.
<c03>
The cost of supporting these camps affected the administration of the government, and also the integrity of officers. When I went to New Orleans, I found (11,000) eleven thousand families or (55,000) fifty-five thousand persons supported by the commissary department, and chiefly from the public treasury. This did not include the negro population. To have added them, constantly increasing in number, would have been unwise as well as unnecessary. I reduced the number of white families from 11,000 to about 6,000 who received support, by cutting off all who had no equitable claims, and excluding altogether the families of rebel soldiers-reducing the number in the aggregate from 55,000 to about 30,000, embracing mainly the families of soldiers, black and white, in the Union armies. The negroes not in the army were assisted in obtaining employment of various kinds. No complaint has been made of the burden upon the government caused by supporting unemployed negroes in Louisiana. There has never been a day when 20,000 or 50,000 negroes could not have been taken from any other rebel State, and supported, protected, and educated, without expense to the public, for their own as well as for the public advantage, in Louisiana. These considerations required immediate action. If any remedy was to be found, it was wanted at once. The character of the local industry is such that, unless labor is commenced early in the spring, it is valueless. Action, therefore, must be prompt.
I published an order, two years ago this day, the 30th January, 1863, providing a system of labor, both compensatory and compulsory. No person whatever was consulted upon the subject previous to the issue of the order. It was published on a day when I generally do something if I can. In arranging the conditions of labor, the negroes were consulted by men of their own color, and their suggestions implicitly followed. Their stipulations were simple and very wise. There was never a code better adapted to the condition of a race than their suggestions to the elevation of their people. The planters or employers met in Convention, not to consider but to decide whether or not to accept it. Their action had nothing to do with perfecting or devising the system. It was intimated to them that the soil must be cultivated; and if the owners did not, other persons would cultivate it. The, public necessity required this. They accepted the proposition, as men sign a Round Robin-to avoid the responsibility of being the first to disregard the reservation made in their favor by the Proclamation of Emancipation; and to surrender the right of property in their negroes, by paying them wages, and consenting that they should labor where they should choose to do so. This, stated in a few words, is exactly what the high contracting parties had to do with this matter. The action of one side was public, the other private; and as it always happens, that which was concealed from the public eye was in the nature of a stipulation, with power on the part of the negro to assent or dissent, and that which occurred in the presence of the people was limited to a forced consent, without actual control or responsibility. The conditions of employment were substantially-
1. Recognition of their liberty.
2. The uniting of families
3. The choice of employers.
4. Compensation for labor.
5. Exemption from all corporal punishment.
6. Education of children.
7. Limitation of hours of labor.
8. Protection in their rights by the Government.
9. The right to cultivate land on their own account.
10. Enrolment in the militia.
I have suggested a general reason for immediate action upon this subject at the commencement of the year, when general work begins. The necessity for a general rule will be seen in the following facts:-The unity of the family is the essential requisite in any system for the elevation of the negro race; and it was the condition most desired by the negroes themselves. The families, of course, embraced young and old, able-bodied and infirm persons. Employers would not engage those who were unable to labor, nor undertake their support without labor. The same is to be said of their education, medical and general care, the unity of families, and the support of their members. There were no means of providing for these things completely, except by giving them employment upon the basis of family and home. The Government, even, could not do otherwise. It could support them, and it might partially educate them; but it could not provide homes, nor make any arrangement of that nature. Whether it can be done by any general system of employment will be tested only by experiment.
The choice of employers is or was absolutely free. It was reported to me that the negroes, in making arrangements for their labor, debated the question of the treatment they received formerly, in the presence of each other, and of the officers of their government. There may have been abuses in this, but not more than grow out of the employment of labor in any of the States; and no class of laborers have had anywhere a more immediate appeal from wrongs suffered, or found more immediate redress. I employed about twenty of the most intelligent and best educated free colored men to visit their people on the plantations. They were authorized to go anywhere, and to talk with any body, and to carry arms. The abuses they, reported were immediately corrected by orders issued from my Head-Quarters. Subsequently, I employed Rev. Mr. Hepworth, chaplain of one of the Boston regiments, and Rev. Mr. E. M. Wheelock, commissioning them as Lieutenants in the Corps d'Afrique, that they might have official authority to visit and investigate the condition and treatment of the negroes. Their reports were full, and their recommendations immediately put in execution. Mr. Hepworth is in Boston, and Mr. Wheelock in New Orleans. I have written both gentlemen to communicate with you upon the subject, without suggesting that you desired information. I should be glad if you made personal inquiry of Mr. Hepworth, who has had every opportunity for correct information. Beside these gentlemen, other agents were constantly in service for the same purpose, both by my own direction and that of Brigadier General James Bowen, of New York city, who officiated as Provost Marshal General, and manifested a most active interest in all that appertained to the welfare of the negro.
This remark covers, also, the general subject of flogging. That there were cases of flogging, I have no doubt; but they were precisely like cases of forgery, of child-murder in Boston, or of assassination in Harvard College, in violation of law, and immediately and severely punished when discovered. The cases reported by Mr. Phillips, in the Spring of 1868, were without the slightest foundation. Col. Benedict, who commanded the New York regiment, and Colonel Kingman, who commanded the 16th New Hampshire, left in writing, at the time, an unqualified denial of the statements; and Colonel Benedict stated to me, a few days before his death, that he had denied it publicly in Albany, in presence of Mr. Phillips, who retracted his story as to him, but repeated it as to me. In answer to a letter of mine addressed to Gov. Andrew, Captain Herbert, from whom the story seemed to have originated, gave the name of Rev. Mr. Wheelock as his authority, who also denied the truth of the statement in writing.
The position of Captain Herbert will explain this and other reports of this character. He was a cotton-speculator. He belonged to General Hamilton’s staff, which was organized in New York specially for plunder. General Hamilton confessed to me that he had been obliged to put himself under obligations to the men who were upon his staff. The expedition to Galveston, is in December, 1862, was forced upon me, in three or four days after my arrival at New Orleans, by these men, although it was justified by the advice of Admiral Farragut and General Butler. These men accompanied, the expedition (without reason.) which resulted in the capture of two companies of Colonel Burrill’s Massachusetts regiment, and subjected them to a captivity in rebel prisons for more than a year; and during the whole voyage, they had no talk ex-
<c04>
cept upon the cotton of Texas, and their plans of disposing of it. This Captain Herbert denounced to me, in person, the President of the United States, and all the officers of the Government, until I was compelled to silence him, because we opened the campaign for the freedom of the Mississippi instead of the conquest of Texas. When I entered upon the Texas campaign again in the autumn of 1868, this man appeared again, with General Hamilton. General N. I T. Dana, commanding on the Rio Grande, reported that this Captain Herbert, in his greed for cotton, had entered into a conspiracy with the enemies of the country, as a condition of his cotton speculations, to deliver up the lives of certain proscribed men; thus adding, as General Dana described it, the crime of treachery and murder to that of unlawful speculation and plunder. His reports are on file in the Department. It was this man and his associates who set afloat these stories, which have been denied by every man ever named in connection therewith. Their reason was, that I refused them-as I did all men, of whatever character-the liberty of plundering either the Government or the people. In the Port Hudson campaign, I put three million dollars into the treasury of the United States, securing by that act the friendship of the people, while it defrayed the expenses of the war for the Union. My correspondence with the, Department of War will show, that what I proposed, sustained by what I had done, would at the same moment have reconciled the people to the success of our cause, and paid the expenses of the army entirely. Had I given to Captain Herbert and the flood of speculators that followed the army, the three millions collected and paid over, and promised them the handling of twenty or thirty millions more, with a chance at the public property in Texas, my administration would have been of sky-blue color. All the trouble has grown out of my appropriation of public property to the Government, instead of sharing it myself with individuals. These men found ready listeners to their denunciations; but, in a little time, the truth will speak” with most miraculous organ.”
This is the first time I have ever alluded to this subject, in private or in public. I have been silent, because I have been strong. Had I been as infamous as some men, I might have been as noisy.
As to the facts connected with the treatment of negroes, the gentlemen I have named will give you full information. I would add the name of Col. George H. Hanks, and Major Rush B. Plumley, both of whom are abolitionists of early date, and know everything connected with the negro in Louisiana. Mrs. Guest, a lady representing the freedmen's associations of the West, has examined carefully the condition of the colored people, by moving among them. Rev. Dr. Newman and Rev. Mr. Conway also understand the whole subject. The negroes know, also, whether or not they are well treated. No people have ever shown stronger marks of favor. If they felt that they owed to me freedom, education, compensation for labor, association with their families, the cultivation of the soil for themselves, and a reasonable chance for full political power, they could not have been more friendly. This refers to the mass of the colored people.
In respect to the fact, that negroes were not allowed to vote in the elections which I invited, this much is to be said-that an officer is bound, in performing a duty, 1st by his orders; 2d by his power.
I did not volunteer action in the organization of government in Louisiana. The President gave me peremptory instructions, after others had failed to accomplish anything. He directed me to form a government as far as practicable, according to the Constitution and laws of the State. His limitation was, that it was to be a free State government, and nothing less. This was practicable, so far as suffrage was concerned; and was binding upon me. The instructions of the War Department to me, and those who preceded me, were that the basis of political power should be the” white while male citizens of the State.” Mr. Chase, whom I consulted by a special messenger-one of his own friends, Mr. Dennison-and who approved my plan, did not suggest negro suffrage in the initiatory movements. The President subsequently, and Mr. Chase also, desired that measures should be taken to extend suffrage to colored citizens; and it has been and will be done. Congress declared, by emphatic votes, that where it had exclusive power, as in the District of Columbia, and in the Territory of Idaho also, and in the reconstruction bill-which failed to receive the approval of the President-that it would neither ordain nor recommend, whether its jurisdiction were exclusive or co-ordinate, suffrage for negroes. Thus I was bound by my positive instructions from the President and from the War Department; by the advice of the Secretary of the Treasury; by the example enforced in the most important cases; by most decisive votes of both Houses of Congress, to follow the established law1aw, which limited suffrage to white persons. It would have been impossible for me to set aside the concurrent instructions and example of every department of the government, if I had enjoyed the power. But it was not in my power. 
It was with much hesitation that the mass of the people entered into measures for the organization of government. Some were ready, but others reluctant. Revolutions make the mass of men timid. It required the strongest representations of public advantage to induce them to venture again into the stormy sea of politics. Had it been announced that the negroes, who were largely in the majority, against the example, advice and instructions of all branches of the government, were to be admitted to the right of suffrage by military order, it would have resulted in an exclusively negro constituency. You might not object to this; but I know perfectly well, that, while a government formed as heretofore by white men may clothe negroes with the right of suffrage, a government organized by negro voters, that should give the elective franchise to white men, would not be acceptable to the administration, to Congress, nor the country, nor any part of it. Such would have been the result in Louisiana, beyond question, under an general order conferring the right of suffrage upon negroes. It would not have secured to colored citizens, now or hereafter, that right. It would have deferred, if not defeated it.
I did not decide upon this subject without very long and serious reflection, weighing the whole subject in every light, with a desire to effect the extension.
My plan was consistent with my orders, and would have been as successful in this as in other respects. It was to obtain from the United States Court-following the judicial example both of tree and slave States -a decree, fixing the standard of citizenship as to color, and declaring that a man, with a major part of white blood, should possess all the rights of a white man. Upon this decision I should have ordered alt persons of that class embraced within the decision of the Court to be enrolled as voters. This was the way, and the only way to begin. It would have given the right of representation to 80,000 colored people, and have led without contest to the immediate extension of the franchise of the race.
I had arranged this with Judge Dowell, who was ready to give the case a hearing in the United States Circuit Court, and with one of the most eminent conservative lawyers to argue the question for the government in favor of the negro; but a few men, who wanted to break the bundle of sticks without loosening the band, defeated it. The President gave me too much to do-more than any other Major General in the army-or it would have been accomplished. My belief is sow, that the question of suffrage will be settled sooner in Louisiana than in any other State.
It is not strictly correct to say that I changed the Constitution to allow soldiers to vote. I simply interpreted it. I declared that a provision which prohibited soldiers of the regular army from voting could not sot be applied to soldiers of the volunteer army, who volunteered to defend their own State against an active public enemy, simply because they volunteered to defend the State. The provision was held good against those to whom it was intended to apply, but not against those who had no existence when the provision was
<c05>
adopted. The officers and soldiers of the regular army in New Orleans-citizens according to the letter of the Constitution, but not according to the spirit, -did not vote is these elections. It was not changed as regarded them, because it was intended to operate only against them.
But it is unnecessary to urge this matter. I did change the Constitution and the laws, in the matter of representation and slavery. The government was organized so as to give a few white people in the country control over multitudes of white people in the city. I decided that these provisions, and all laws founded upon them, were inapplicable to any class of people then existing in the State, and inconsistent with the actual conditions of things, and therefore inoperative and void. The change made a free State of a slave State; but it was strictly in accordance with my instructions, and an opposite course would have resulted in nothing. It was not so in the matter of suffrage. The change could not have accomplished the object desired, and it would have done violence alike to my instructions and all the traditions and precepts of all departments of the Government.
In regard to the regiments of negro troops at Port Hudson, it is utterly false to say that they, or any and one of them, were refused permission to inscribe Port Hudson upon the regimental banners. On the contrary, I wrote to the President myself, that we could never have accomplished the conquest of Port Hudson but for the assistance of the negro regiments; and it was from my letter that he published the declaration, in his controversy upon this subject, that “at least one of the Major Generals commanding the armies had stated that the co-operation of the negro soldiers was essential to the victories won that summer.” It is without foundation, justification, or substantial or colorable pretext to say that I refused or declined this permission, or that I assented in any form whatever to such refusal. Enclosed you will find a letter from Colonel R. B. Irwin, my Assistant Adjutant General, and I have also written to General Stone for a statement of the facts in regard to the list of regiments engaged in the campaign of Port Hudson. These officers made up the lists, receiving from me only the general instructions to embrace in the order all the regiments engaged in the siege. I did not know until recently that any had been omitted.
Every negro has a right to be heard in all the courts of Louisiana. The military court never refuses their refuses to listen to their appeals; the United States district or circuit is of the same character as to their rights. One or two of the State Courts, last summer, by judges appointed by authority of General Butler, undertook to assert the validity of old State laws as to negroes, and they were summarily removed by Governor Hahn. They are all now of the same liberal character. There is no laboring population on the globe more secure in the right to be heard, or more certain of protection by the courts, than the negro of Louisiana. Any case which presents a color of difference from this statement is a made-up case.
Of course, I speak of things as they were when I left the Department. For these and all other privileges they enjoy, they are indebted to me. Their history before I went to New Orleans must at some time be known.
The negroes are perfectly free to make contracts, and they exercise that power-the exception is in regard to wages on plantations. There the rate is fixed within limits by the government, because it is necessary that all should be employed; that all should be supported; and that all should be protected, and prepared for a higher condition-that of cultivating land for themselves. In all matters other than this one, they act entirely for themselves. They cultivate land for themselves, and sell their products to whomsoever they please.
All the plantations are cultivated under the general regulations. They therefore include all employed in the cultivation of land, but not those engaged in other pursuits. It is not probable that it will be necessary to continue the regulations long. It was required chiefly in commencing work. When the habits of labor are established, and the negroes know enough not to be cheated out of their wages, it can be discontinued without trouble. I cannot say that it is necessary to renew them another year.
I am not aware that any regulation prohibits them visiting New Orleans at the end of the year. If such exist, they are not mine, and there is no necessity for them. The only restriction put upon their move-menu was in the order of January 19th, 1864, which was embodied in the General Order, No. 23, which prohibited them passing from plantation to plantation without the approval of the Provost Marshal. This order was issued at the request of the medical director of the Department, and was necessary to prevent general contagion from small pox-very destructive to the negroes always, and then especially so. Negro soldiers were subject to the same rules as white soldiers in this respect. Orders have been given to the Quartermaster to bring them over the roads free of expense. I think this was done at the celebration of June 11th. 1864.
In the condition of the negro, there is not one solitary element or incident of serfdom. The emancipation of serfs in Russia does not place them in so good a position as the negroes were on the day when they began labor under my order, say nothing of their rights now under the new Constitution.
It is not my custom, nor is it required by my course, to defend myself by assailing others. It is, however, but just for me to say, that in addition to general speculation, the private interests of Treasury agents warp their judgment and control their action upon the question of negro or slave labor. All Treasury appointments are of a speculative character. They expect to make money. They say it is legitimate, and that they are authorized if not instructed to do it. The plantations are a source of great profit. They are rented or leased by Treasury agents to their friends. If to the plantations they can add the control of plantation trade and the supply of laborers, and the regulations of labor, it increases largely their jurisdiction and chances. I never leased a plantation to any one. I simply gave an order regulating and enforcing a general system of labor. I made it a condition that at all hazards the laborer should be well supported, treated, and clothed and educated. This was to prevent speculation upon his necessities. It was thought difficult for the government to enforce this condition. In addition to this, he was to have wages, in U. S. currency, from $8 per month to $10 per month, and an acre of land to cultivate as he pleased, for his own benefit and his own profit. This makes more liberal compensation than is given to any un-skilled laborer in the world.
Now, if the Treasury officers, in making new arrangements, enforce everything in my system which is against the negro, and change all the provisions in his favor in manifest advantage of the employers you will be able exactly to measure the extent of his philanthropy and his interests.
 The first difficulty I had on this subject was in the matter of supplies. Insufficient food would deprive a man of his plantation. The new Treasury regulations,-a copy of which I send you,-require the planter to sell to the laborer his provisions at what they cost on the plantation. (Par. 7, page 45.) If the negro does not get enough food or clothing, he must buy more at plantation prices. The planter must keep them on hand, which makes for him a depot of supplies for other people or the public enemy; which, of course, he can sell without restraint, irrespective of restrictive military orders.
The negroes under my orders raised cotton, sugar and rice on their own lands. The Treasury men did not like this, and issued an order against it. In their appeal to me to sustain them, they affirmed that if the negroes were allowed to raise other than vegetables for their own use, they would steal from the crop of the employer. Gen. Bowen, to whom I referred this proposition, did not find that the negroes were guilty of thefts, and recommended that our rule should not be changed, and asked by what right” the
<c06>
entire laboring population of the State was branded as thieves”
The reason given originally for the cultivation of land by the negro for himself was, that he might soon be able to rent land for himself, ”giving so much product for so much land.” This is expressed in the order. Any negro is perfectly free to contract for the use or purchase of land. To do this, he must be able to try his hand at the staple products of his country. They have done this with great success. They raise cotton, sugar and rice, in some instances to the value of $300, besides their wages and subsistence. Soon in this way they emerge from their present condition. They want first Savings Banks, and then they become owners and independent cultivators of land. This is distasteful to a speculator. So, under the new Treasury regulations, (7,p. 44,) the land allotted to the laborer is not, as under my orders, to each individual, but ”to each family’-and not for raising the profitable staples, but only ”for garden purposes.” This is stealthily introduced-but it is of infinite importance to the laborers. If the laborers are not suited by these regulations, they labor ”without pay” elsewhere (¶ 9)
Having gone over this subject fully in the last two years, I probably understand it more readily than any other person. You will see its bearing in all respects when I say, that the person representing the speculators in correspondence with me upon this matter is a lessee of plantations, an officer of the Treasury, and an authorized correspondent of the New York Tribune, accredited to me by letter of Mr. Gay-upon which I gave him the privileges of the Department, restricting his right to trade.
The Treasury fixes the pay of first class men at $25 per month. There are no first class hands. They are in the army, with few exceptions. The wages paid, therefore, will be $20 to $10 per month, out of which the negroes feed and clothe themselves by an enforced purchase of their employer, at ”the cost of articles on the plantation.” I need not say, that at such prices their pay will not subsist them. The employee will have all their wages at the end of the year. The negroes will be discontented and idle. This is small business for the Government of the United States but it will not last long.
There is no doubt that some Provost Marshals have been corrupt and cruel. The advantage with them is, that they can be assigned, in case of complaint, to other duty, without delay or inquiry. When once you are saddled with a corrupt or cruel agent of lessee, he cannot be removed. The military rule, in this respect, is far preferable. The Provost Marshals take the place, too, under my orders, of Sheriffs appointed from slaveholders, by Gov. Shepley, under Gen. Butler, of atrocious character. One, at least, was charged with having ordinarily branded his slaves on the forehead with his own initials. We have had no such men in the army. Mr. Hepworth will tell you of the character of some of the Massachusetts men, while serving in this capacity.
These personal allusions illustrate the difference in plan and results, and are not to be considered personal charges. They are matters for which I care nothing. This is written in haste, without revision, but you are at liberty to use it as you think proper.
Very respectfully, 
Your obedient servant,
N. P. BANKS, M. G. V.
Hon. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, BOSTON, Mass.
NEW YORK, January 3d, 1865.
DEAR GENERAL,-In answer to your note, received late last night, requesting me to inform you ”if there is any authority for the statement, said to have been made by Mr. Wendell Phillips, that the negro regiments at Port Hudson had been refused permission to place that name upon their standards,” I bag leave to say that so far as my knowledge extends, this statement has no authority in the facts. While I was Adjutant General of the Department of the Gulf, no such refusal was ever given through me; nor, so far as I remember, did the colored regiments ever apply, through me, for such permission.
In this connection, I cannot help suggesting my impression, that ”Port Hudson” is inscribed upon the colors of the troops of the Corps d’Afrique engaged in the assaults on that post. I am not sure, but I think so, and that the orders were given by the Corps Commander. 
Very respectfully, General,
Your most obedient servant,
(Signed) RICHARD B. IRWIN.
Major General N. P. BANKS, Astor House.
OFFICE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, U.S December 30th, 1864.
Major General N. P. Banks:
DEAR SIR,-I hasten to reply to your note of yesterday. In the Senate, (in committee of the whole,) may 27th, 1864, the joint resolution to amend the charter of the city of Washington being under consideration, Mr. Sumner moved to amend by adding, ”provided that there shall be no exclusion of any person on account of color.”
Mr. Harlan moved to amend said amendment by adding, ”who have borne arms in the military service of the United States, and have been honorably discharged therefrom.” On the question of agreeing to the latter, yeas 26, nays 12. (Senate journal, p, 481.) May 28,-Mr. Sumner’s amendment as amended agreed to without a division. Mr. Sumner proposed a further amendment, giving right of suffrage to all persons, without distinction of color, who have paid tax, or, having taxable estate, and who can read and write with facility; which was disagreed to-yeas 8, nays 27.
The amendment of Mr. Sumner, as amended on motion of Mr. Harlan, having been reported to the Senate, was disagreed to -yeas 18, nays 20.
Upon the bill to provide a temporary government for Montana, a conference report was submitted in the House of Representatives, whereby the House seceded from its disagreement to the Senate’s amendment, giving the right of suffrage to negroes. On the question of agreeing to said report, there were-yeas 54, nays 85. (House Journal, April 15, p. 527.) I don’t discover that any similar amendment was proposed to the Reconstruction Bill.
I am, very respectfully, yours,
(Signed) JNO. M. B. BARCLAY.

GEN. BANKS AND THE FREEDMEN.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ., Boston:
I have seen so many inaccurate statements of the condition of the freedmen of the Department of the Gulf, alike prejudicial to truth and to the welfare of the, blacks, that I respectfully ask leave to correct the impression they may have made-at least, so far as your own mind may have been affected by them. And I deem this the more important, because I know I am addressing one whose devotion to the interests of the colored race cannot be questioned; for it has been tried by years of obloquy and persecution.
It so happens that, while I am in no respect responsible, either by my council or action, for the plans of General Banks, I am cognizant of the condition of the blacks at the time he assumed command in Louisiana, the difficulties against which he had to contend, and the final practical working of his orders. I must state these in general terms, because I have not access to the papers and orders necessary to detailed narrative.
When General Banks assumed command of the Department of the Gulf, the depots at New Orleans, Carrollton, Donaldsonville and Baton Rouge were crowded with negroes, of both sexes and of all ages, subsisted at the expense of the United States. Idle, herded together in confined quarters, without regard to sex or age, and but little attention given to them beyond providing for their daily subsistence, they were dying in large numbers. 
In the early part of February, 1863, or within sixty days after his arrival, General Banks formed a tariff of prices for agricultural labor; low, it is true, com.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
pared with the rates paid at the North, but sufficiently high to provoke on the part of the planters very intemperate denunciations of the commanding General for his sympathy with the negro. These prices formed the basis of contracts between the planters and the laborers. Neither the planter nor the laborer was compelled to make the contract; but if a contract were made, it was stipulated that it should be for one year, or till the 1st February, 1864. The planter, if so disposed, could let his plantation run to waste; and the <w>slave could, if so disposed, refuse to work for his <w> master. The only condition imposed on the black was that the able-bodied should work for his living. If indisposed to work on a plantation, he was required to work for the Government. The law of labor was to be operative with the black as with the white. Vagrancy was held to be a public misdemean- or with the one race as with the other.
    Under these and other general regulations providing for the infirm and helpless, the season of 1863 was commenced. In a few weeks, the demand for labor could not be supplied; the depots were emptied, and the Government relieved from a heavy expense. Thence forward, a fast as colored refugees came within our limits work at fixed wages was provided for them. In April of last year, the officer specially charged with the superintendence of negro labor reported that he had applications from planters which he could not supply for ten thousand laborers.
    Nor was the attention of General Banks confined simply to providing employment for the blacks at adequate wages.
    A provost Marshal was appointed for each parish of the State within the military lines. In the selection of these officers, who, with one or two exceptions, were of or above the rank of Captain, care was taken to detail only those who were believed to be in full sympathy with the negroes interested in their advancement, and resolute to punish every infraction of their newly acquired rights.
    The Provost Marshals were instructed to see that the planters in their respective parishes did not overwork their laborers; that they were provided with abundant and healthy food, and proper clothing. They were also invested with judicial power; and further instructed to regard the black man as possessed of the same natural rights as the white man; his evidence was to be taken in court; if flogged, or struck by his employer, the aggressor was to be arrested, and punished for an assault by fine or imprisonment, or both. These instructions were constantly reiterated; and when, as sometimes happened, a Provost Marshal, under the seductive influences of the planter’s hospitalities became beedless of his duties, he was sent back to his regiment, to give place to another.
On the 1st February, 1864, a new tariff of prices for the ensuing year was established. The rates were increased, ampler provisions were made for the comfort of the employed, their wages were made a lien upon the crop, and a portion of land was allotted to each for cultivation, the products of which were exclusively his own. A system of school education for colored children between the ages of 4 and 12 years was framed. School commissioners were appointed; the State was divided into school districts; school-books were obtained, and provision made for a supply of competent teachers. Marriage of those who had lived and cohabited together was encouraged, and insisted on by the Provost Marshal, under orders from Head-Quarters.
    On a review of the action of General Banks, in respect to the colored population of Louisiana, I am convinced that his measures were judicious; that the great object he had in view was their elevation to all the rights, natural and political, of white men; and that to him is fairly due the abolition of slavery by the Convention of that State.
Two years ago it was the fashion to extol General Banks; it is now the fashion to decry him. I will not presume to censure the popular caprice, but I earnestly hope that his policy in respect to the blacks will not be disturbed. It was wise and beneficent. The sound of the lash was no longer heard after its adoption. The white man was admonished, through the medium of his own interests, that the slave had ceased to be a chattel, and had become a man; and the black was taught that freedom was not idleness, and that with his newly acquired rights he was still subject to the inexorable law, that in the sweat of his face he should eat bread.
I am, Sir, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES BOWEN.
New York, 11th February, 1865.
GEN. SAXTON AND DR. KNOX.
HILTON HEAD, S. C., Feb. 18, 1865.
MR. GARRISON:? I noticed in the Liberator of Feb.<w> a report of the proceedings at the recent annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, held at the Melodeon in Boston. Some charges were there made by Dr. T. P. Knox against everybody in general, having in charge the freed people in this Department, and against General Saxton in particular, which were so groundless, so bitter and vindictive, that common justice would seem to require their refutation, by those who have occupied the ground where such enormities are alleged to have been practised, and who know them to be either wanton exaggerations or spiteful creations of an unduly disturbed imagination. I know the condition of the freed people is still sufficiently wretched; that the wages they receive are generally inadequate to a supply of their real necessities; but this results, not from negligence or design on the part of Gen. Saxton, but in spite of unremitting efforts for a better state of things. That he himself, or the agents whom he has appointed to the direct supervision of this people, have either themselves subjected them to such hardships as the Dr. describes, or even suffered it to be done by others, is simply and entirely untrue. It may be that by some irresponsible Shylock, they have been “compelled to work for fifteen cents a day, under the threat, that if they did not they should be put in the army;” but General Saxton is not “head overseer of slaves” among such vagabonds, if they are to be found. If such a case had ever been reported to him, he would at once have exercised his prerogative, and banished the miscreants to the wholesome, though perhaps unpalatable, atmosphere of the Puritanic North.
While I do not profess to know the precise causes which resulted in the expulsion of Dr. Knox from this Department, he may perhaps derive comfort from the fact, that he is not the only one who claims the distinction of martyr. I have even witnessed shorn leads taking regretful leave, with steps measured by the inimitable strains of the “Rogue’s March;” but such consideration was denied him.
I can hardly believe that Dr. Knox uttered such <W> bitter words as are accredited to him in the Boston journals. An instance:-- “Dr. Knox, on being questioned, said that General Saxton, besides being a scoundrel and a coward, is practically the leader and the head of the slaveholders at Port Royal.” Should such sentiments be uttered here, where Gen. Saxton is known, where his actions are seen and read of all men, the calumniator might regard himself as peculiarly fortunate that he was only roundly “hissed, ” as at Boston. Even military and naval officers, who have never been in sympathy with the General in his eminently humane and philanthropic mission, pronounce these charges outrageous and devilish.
I presume I shall not be charged with lack of sympathy for the down-trodden, wherever I am known. Many, and perhaps most, of the so-called radical sentiments entertained by Dr. Knox are in sympathy with my own. Now, I have had many interviews with General Saxton personally; have often consulted with him as to the rights and wrongs of the people under his general, and my own special supervision; and I have ever been sustained by him in my most persistent efforts to promote their well-being in every conceivable point of view. Whenever I have had occasion to report cases of injustice or outrage inflicted 

<c02>
upon them, he has ever promptly ordered such injustice and outrage to cease; and, when it could be done, has visited condign punishment upon the offender. Nearly all his numerous printed orders pertain to the rights, the privileges, and general protection of the oppressed; and at the same time warning oppressors to keep at a respectful distance. He has occupied a position unpopular in character and responsibilities; often encountering severe obloquy from military and naval men; and yet has ever stood firm as a rock, and true to the vital interests of suffering humanity. Certainly, the not extremely polite epithets of “scoundrel” and “coward,” which Dr. Knox is reported to have applied to him, do not apply to him in any of these regards. I would that the Doctor might be impelled by nobler impulses, (for he no doubt possesses them,) and not suffer personal, bitter animosities to sink him so low as did the wholesale, groundless onslaught which he perpetrated, in the Boston Convention, upon so noble and self-sacrificing a man as Maj. Gen. R. Saxton.
I shall not attempt to vindicate the National Freed-men’s Association from the aspersions thrown upon it by the same gentleman, and upon the same occasion, as I am not particularly conversant with its acts and responsibilities. But, judging from analogy alone, I must naturally conclude, that it is an institution direct from Heaven, fulfilling a glorious mission among the sons of men. If, from the desperate character attributed to it by Dr. Knox, we must judge of its true merit by contraries, as all acquainted with the facts must do in the case of General Saxton, surely the National Freedmen’s Association has nothing to fear, either in this life or in the life to come.
G. PILLSBURY.

TESTIMONIAL TO COL. HENRY S. RUSSELL.
POINT LOOKOUT, (Md.) Feb. 17,1865.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON—The following testimony to the remarkable fidelity and high military and personal merit of one of whose invaluable services the country is now unfortunately deprived, seems to deserve the permanent and general record of your columns. To the wise and thoughtful friend of the colored race, few will seem entitled to more of grateful admiration and praise than they who, in simple and unostentatious fidelity to duty, have devoted their best energies to the work of developing and disciplining the military capacities of the colored man; and among those to whom such praise justly belongs few, if any, will deserve a higher place or a heartier recognition than the late Colonel of the 5th Massachusetts Cavalry.
Every friend of civil justice and equality will confess, that the patient endurance and steady valor shown by so many of our colored troops have done very much to establish, among friends and foes, the manhood of the negro. Very few, whether of the doubtful or the unfriendly, who know the true soldierly qualities of the Massachusetts colored regiments, can longer doubt or deny that, tried by one of the severest tests of individual or national character, the colored man has won an incontestable right to share with the white race every civil right, every civil prerogative, and every civil emolument. And yet it is certainly true that this result is largely due to the earnest moral courage and military skill of a comparatively few who were willing to put their most cherished reputation at risk to promote so great a cause. While we crown with unfading honors those who with voice and pen have maintained this long and momentous anti-slavery struggle, this purpose to make our Republic truly Republican, let us not forget how much a few large-hearted and clear-headed officers have done, at a most critical hour, both to save our own manhood, and to establish and vindicate the manhood of the colored man. And in this record the faithful chronicler will award a highly honorable place to Col. Russell. Without self-seeking, and averse to all forms of ostentatious notoriety, in the simple rectitude of a true heart and a wise head, he has done a work of organization and discipline which will be the model to all his successors and his own best praise. As friends of justice and equality, as friends of our own, not less than of the colored race, let us recognize such services and honor such names.
Camp 5th Mass. Cavalry. }
POINT LOOKOUT, (Md.,) Feb. 5th, 1865. }
COL. HENRY S. RUSSELL:
DEAR SIR: —The undersigned, officers of your regiment, have learned with the most sincere regret of your determination to resign your present position and to leave the service, which, for a long period, you have honored and adorned. We cannot allow you to leave us without an expression of our appreciation of your services to us, and to this regiment.
From our earliest association under your command, your conduct, whether in moments of excitement and danger or of dissatisfaction and despondency, has been our sure guide and faithful support; teaching us to meet danger and suffering, or to endure disappointment, with cheerful and manly courage. We feel that the impartiality and high sense of honor and duty which you have evinced toward us as officers, and ever patient and watchful attention which you have bestowed upon the interests of the regiment, deserve our heartfelt gratitude and respect. Whatever may be the future history of the regiment, we feel that the skill and wisdom displayed by you in its organization, and during the first year of its existence, have given it a character and reputation which it will be our constant endeavor to sustain.
In the fullest confidence that the step yon now take is dictated by the same fidelity to duty which we have marked in all your conduct as an officer and a man, we beg you to accept this expression of our most cordial respect and friendship, together with our warmest wishes for the future welfare and success of yourself and family.
We remain, dear Colonel, ever your faithful servants and friends,
[Signed by all the officers present with the regiment,—thirty-seven in number.]
THE COURSE OF THE LIBERATOR.
When, in 1429, Joan of Arc, after having raised the siege of Orleans, stood by the side of the King of France with her banner unfurled in her hand while he was crowned, she humbly requested permission to return to her father’s house, and tend again his flock as before. Her request not being granted, she subsequently fell into the hands of the English, by whom she was tried, condemned and executed. All this she suffered in consequence of acting according to her convictions of right. When on trial for her life, she was asked why her banner was more honored than others, in being permitted to remain unfurled by the side of the King at his coronation. Her answer was worthy the high-toned soul of Joan of Arc: “It shared the danger—it had a right to share the glory.”
And is it so—has it indeed come to this—that the spirit which, in 1829, hoisted the banner of immediate, unconditional, universal emancipation, abandoning the idea of engaging in any other pursuit or profession, while a slave remained to clank his fetters, consecrating whatever of intellect or moral power might be given to it in the service of bleeding humanity; and which, from that time to the present, has watched the progress of the cause with the sleepless vigilance and untiring zeal of the fond mother who guards her beloved offspring, is now to be charged with being ready “ to make a compromise with the devil,” and let down the chains of Anti-Slavery, because its hopeful and buoyant nature finds some crumbs of comfort which others do not appreciate, and because its matchless eye of faith and holy trust sees and knows that its warfare is accomplished, the battle gained, the victory won; and that the one great desire of its strong and loving heart is about to be realized?
<c03>
Or is that bright and high-wrought banner, the Liberator, which, for four and thirty long and dreary years, has been so heroically borne aloft, amid the roar of waters and the crash of the mighty storm, always foremost in danger where right called for aid, and never once retreating before the mighty foe, now—in the hour of triumph—to be forsaken as unworthy of support, even in sustaining its FREE list, and the banner and its bearer to be denounced as having “forsaken and betrayed the cause,” because no longer smiting after the cry for quarter is heard, and the foe has forever surrendered?
No, O Joan, thou fairest among women—faithful to thy mission as the heart of the true mother! Not thus art thou to be left a second time to become a prey to those who seek thy life; for England—in the person of her honored representative—instead of now condemning thee, acknowledging her former wrong, comes boldly to thy defence; and this last charge will be retracted with contrition, when thy fair nature shall be fully understood; and then, my Joan, when thou standest by the side of the King, with thy banner unfurled, and the fruition of thy hopes and the consummation of thy true heart’s desire shall be witnessed by an astonished and admiring world in his coronation, then shalt thou be crowned Queen—even though it be by the hand of the King himself, and with his own crown. And on thy fair banner shall be written, in letters of living light, “It shared the danger—it has a right to share the glory.”
Respectfully yours,
WM. S. FLANDERS.
Cornville, (Maine,) Feb. 11th, 1865.

LETTER FROM AN OLD FRIEND.
It was with great pleasure that we received the following letter from an old subscriber, who, early in the history of the anti-slavery movement, sacrificed friends, kindred and home, in faithfulness to his convictions of duty to the slave:--
GENESEO, (Ill.) Feb. 9,1865.
DEAR BR. GARRISON—My name has been on your list of subscribers for some twenty-five years, and I have not troubled you with communications; but I cannot now refrain from congratulating you on the mighty power of the truth, as manifest in the breaking down of the old Bastile of Slavery. For what is military, State and Congressional Emancipation, but the fruit of seed sown years ago, the result of battles fought and won on the moral field? I rejoice that you live to see so glorious a consummation of your life-long work. Allow me also to express my deep satisfaction at the wisdom and magnanimity of your course, in regard to the administration of the Government. It has been a candid recognition of the good, and a fair criticism of the evil. It has cost you many sharp strictures, and perhaps some sharp pain. You are accustomed to the spear of your enemies; but to be wounded in the house of your friends is severe indeed. The approval of your own judgment and conscience will doubtless sustain you; and rest assured that the clear and impartial page of history will justify and approve.
Enclosed I send you ten dollars—three and a half of which you will please put to my credit on the books of the Liberator, and accept the remainder as a small token of esteem and gratitude from one of the “Lane Seminary Rebels.”
When I first went to Lane from my Alabama home, the sight of the Liberator hanging in the reading-room made me angry. Like other men of pro-slavery spirit, I hated and despised the name of Garrison. But I was soon convicted of my sin, and the principle of human equality has been with me, from that time to the present, a living and redeeming power. The sacrifice of reputation, friends and home was not to be compared with the deep satisfaction of standing on the truth; and all experience of labors, lies, curses and mobs, through years of battling for the poor slave, is swallowed up in the rich enjoyment of intellectual and moral freedom.
Owing you much, and hoping that you can rest quietly in your own convictions of right, while rejoicing in the liberation of millions, I subscribe myself, 
Affectionately and sincerely,
Your friend and brother,
W. T. ALLAN.

LETTER FROM REV. W. H. CHANNING.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 3d, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND—Your note of January 25th, with its most timely contribution of $100, (bequest of the late JANE PARKMAN, of Boston,) reached me safely; and the draft was at once placed in the hands of the treasurer of our Freedmen’s Relief Association, Geo. E. Baker, Esq. Never was such aid more acceptable; for owing to the movement of our armies in Virginia, and the emancipation policy in Maryland, a vast crowd of needy refugees have been swept into the District this winter. The suffering for the time is wide-spread and intense; but in a few months, homes, and work-places, and schools, &c., will remove all traces of this transient “winter of our discontent,” as the springing crops hide the bare brown pastures. The poor people do marvelously well, and manifest the sublime moral traits of their race, in gentle patience, and mutual kindness, and bravest hope, and trust in the good God, that never faileth.
I have delayed acknowedging the gift, because I hoped to find time for a long letter upon the present aspect of affairs. But there is enough for a volume; and I am so pressed by various duties that I can find no quiet. Suffice it to say, that the events of each day are justifying the soundness of your judgment in supporting President Lincoln. I do not accept, in full, kind-hearted “Uncle Abe’s” policy of Amnesty and Reconstruction. But be sure that so far as he has pledged himself to Universal Freedom, he will never go back a hair’s breadth. We cannot but be anxious, lest horror of prolonged hostility should tempt the nation to accept a premature truce, instead of permanent peace. But, as General Schenck said to me, after the passage of the Amendment on Tuesday, “One sure gain by our vote is this: we have cut down the bridge behind us. No going back is henceforth possible.” That is true.
You should have heard the generous outburst of the people’s heart on Tuesday, when floor and galleries broke forth in one resounding cheer upon cheer, and the vast assembly stood up with waving of hand-kerchiefs and hats, and hand shakings all around the circle! The NEW DAY has dawned. It is now near sunrise!
Yours in good hope,
WILLIAM HENRY CHANNING.
ANOTHER GENEROUS TOKEN.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—Please accept the enclosed [fifty dollars] as my subscription to the Liberator for the present year.
Always your sincere friend,
SARAH B. SHAW.
North Shore, Staten Island, Feb. 14, 1865.
GEN. BANKS’S LETTER. We commend to our readers a careful perusal of the letter of General Banks which we give in other columns. Impressed with the conviction that the General’s position and conduct with respect to the colored people of Louisiana had been greatly misapprehended, if not misrepresented, Mr. Garrison addressed a letter to him, making certain inquiries, the nature of which will be gathered from his reply. He had intended to accompany the letter with some remarks, but other duties have prevented.
The Editor of the Liberator has been called away to attend to other duties, and has not been able to furnish any editorial for the present number of the paper, or to exercise his usual oversight in its preparaon for the press.
<c04>
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
In the United States Senate, Feb. 4, Mr. Sumner introduced the following declaratory resolutions:—
Concurrent resolutions declaring the rule in ascertaining the three-fourths of the several States required in the ratification of a constitutional amendment.
Whereas Congress, by a vote of two-thirds of both houses, has proposed an amendment to the Constitution prohibiting slavery throughout the United States, which, according to the existing requirement of the Constitution will be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States; and whereas, in the present condition of the country, with certain States in arms against the national government, it becomes necessary to determine what number of States constitutes the three-fourths required by the Constitution; therefore,
Resolved by the Senate, (the House of Representatives concurring.) That the rule followed in ascertaining the two-thirds of both houses proposing the amendment to the Constitution should be followed in ascertaining the three-fourths of the several States ratifying the amendment; that, as in the first case, the two-thirds are founded on the simple fact of representation in the two houses, so in the second case, the three-fourths must be founded on the simple fact of representation in the government of the country, and the support thereof, and that any other rule establishes one basis for the proposition of the amendment and another for its ratification, placing one on a simple fact and the other on a claim of right, while it also recognizes the power of rebels in arms to interpose a veto upon the national government in one of its highest functions.
Resolved, That all acts, executive and legislative, in pursuance of the Constitution, and all treaties made under the authority of the United States, are valid to all intents and purposes throughout the United States, although certain rebel States fail to participate therein; and that the same rule is equally applicable to an amendment of the Constitution.
Resolved, That the amendment of the Constitution, prohibiting slavery throughout the United States, will be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of the Constitution, whenever ratified by three-fourths of the States de facto exercising the powers and prerogatives of the United States under the Constitution thereof.
Resolved, That any other rule, requiring the participation of the rebel States, while illogical and unreasonable, is dangerous in its consequences, inasmuch as all recent Presidential proclamations, including that of emancipation; also, all recent acts of Congress, including those creating the national debt and establishing a national currency; and also all recent treaties, including the treaty with Great Britain for the extinction of the slave trade, have been made, enacted, or ratified respectively without any participation of the rebel States.
Resolved, That any other rule must tend to postpone the great day when the prohibition of slavery will be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution of the United States; but the rule herewith declared will assure the immediate ratification of the prohibition and the consummation of the national desires.

EVACUATION OF CHARLESTON.
It will be seen by the following despatch from Gen Gilmore that that hot-bed of secession, Charleston, is at length in our possession, and the Stars and Stripes floating over it in triumph:--
CHARLESTON, S. C., Feb. 18,1862.
To Major-General Halleck, Chief of Staff:
General: The city of Charleston and all its defences came into our possession this morning, with about 200 pieces of good artillery, and a supply of fine ammunition.
The enemy commenced evacuating all the works last night, and Major McBette surrendered the city to the troops of Gen. Schimilfinning at 9 o’clock this morning, at which time it was occupied by our forces.
Our advance on the Edisto from Bull’s Bay hastened the retreat of the rebels.
The cotton warehouses, arsenals, Quartermaster’s stores, railroad bridges and two iron-clads were burned by the enemy.
Some vessels in the shipyard were also burned. Nearly all the inhabitants remaining behind are of the poorer class.
Very respectfully,
Q. A. GILMORE,
Major-Gen. Commanding.
The correspondent of the Boston Journal, “Carleton,” in a despatch published on the 21st, gives the following particulars of the circumstances attending the evacuation of the city by the rebels, and its occupation by our troop:--
OFF CHARLESTON, Feb. 18, 2 P. M.
THE OLD FLAG WAVES OVER SUMTER, MOULTRIE AND THE CITY OF CHARLESTON.
    I can see its crimson stripes and fadeless stars waving in the warm sunlight of this glorious day.
“Thanks be to God who giveth us the victory.”
The movement of Gen. Sherman into the interior, threatening Branchville and Augusta with his main column, while General Hatch moved along the coast, distracted the rebels, and they committed the fatal error of attempting to hold a line of more than a hundred miles long against his army with a force greatly inferior.
He moved not upon Branchville but upon the railroad between Branchville and Augusta. By the Charleston Courier of the 11th, I learn that he tore up the railroad on the 9th, and crossed the South Edisto on the 10th, moving north towards Columbia. This movement severed D. H. Hill, who was at Augusta, from Hardee at Branchville. It also opened the back door of Charleston.
Gen. Hatch drove the rebels from the Ashepo to the Edisto on the 11th and yesterday he was to attempt the crossing of the Edisto at Jackaonboro’.
Gen. Potter, with a force of several thousand, has been at Bull’s Bay since the 14th, while the troops on Morris Island have been in position to aid Hatch. Their combined movements compelled a sudden evacuation of the city by the rebel troops.
The intelligence was brought to Hilton Head last night, and Gen. Gillmore left at 2 A. M. in steamer Coit. I did not learn of his departure till morning, but seized the opportunity of following in the Fulton, which will take this despatch North, the vessel having been ordered to stop for despatches.
Gen. Gillmore and Admiral Dahlgren have just gone up the harbor.
An officer from the gunboat Wamsutta informs me that the city was evacuated in the night. They examined the forts this morning, and saw that the rebels had departed.
Boats were sent out, and THE STARS AND STRIPES HOISTED ONCE MORE OVER SUMTER, MOULTRIE, and the fortifications of Sullivan’s Island.
About 10 o’clock this forenoon there was a heavy explosion inside the harbor, in the vicinity of Fort Ripley, which jarred the vessels in the harbor.
Great fires are burning in different places; I cannot tell whether in the city or not—probably it is Government property outside of the city.
The news given by the gunboat was received with deafening cheers by those on board the Fulton, which fired a salute in response. The Fulton has come to an anchor to await the return of the General and Admiral.
The blockading vessels which have watched for months are riding at their anchors. Their work is done, their occupation gone. To-morrow will be a Sabbath of rest and joy to officers and sailors alike. I hope to spend it in the city where treason was conceived and nursed till it became the most gigantic rebellion the world ever saw.
Governor Magrath’s proclamation to the people of South Carolina, adjuring them to overwhelm the insolent invader, sounds strange in view of Sherman’s present mastery of the situation. Here is a specimen:
    You have led the way in those acts which united the people of your sister States in this confederation of States and their secession from the Government of the United States. You first fired the gun at the flag of the United States, and caused that flag to be lowered at your command. As yet you have suffered less than any other people. You have spoken words of defiance; let your acts be equally significant. In your sister States, with the people of those States, you have a common sympathy in the determination to be free, and in your hatred of the foe you will not falter in that stronger sympathy which is derived from a common suffering.
You have defied a tyrant; do not apprehend his power. You have dared to do; fear not to die. No worse fate can befall him who has pride in the ancient honor of his State than to see it governed by those who hate it, and insult, with their vices, the virtues we have been taught to cherish.
SLAVERY AND REBELLION ONE AND INLEPERABLE. The Charleston Mercuay, just before it left that city, uttered a yell of horror and disgust over the proposition to arm slaves, pitched into Virginia as an abolition State, and laid down the following platform:
“South Carolina entered into this struggle for no other purpose than to maintain the institution of slavery.
Southern independence has no other object or meaning.
Independence and slavery must stand together or fall together.”
The Nevada Legislature has just ratified the amendment to the Constitution of the United States abolishing slavery. There was only one vote in each House against it—both Democrats.

<c05>
THE UNION LEAGUE CLUB.
The following resolutions, offered by Dr. Franz Lie-per, and eloquently supported by Dr. Bellows, were adopted unanimously at a meeting of the Union League Club held on Thursday evening last, in New York:
“Whereas, The American people ardently desire the reëstablishment of peace in this country; and whereas, the conclusion of peace with the insurgents now in arms against the country is frequently called for; and whereas, it is fit for this large association of loyal citizens solemnly to express their opinion on a subject important to all, and pregnant with consequences both grave and lasting; therefore,
Resolved, That the American people, by all their sacrifices of blood and wealth, are, indeed, seeking the reëstablishment of peace in this land, disturbed as it continues to be by its rebellious citizens; but we discountenance every idea of a conclusion of peace with traitors as a contracting party, which would amount to an acknowledgment of them as a separate power, capable of making treaties.
Resolved, That it is a grave error to maintain that we have acknowledged our enemy as a belligerent in the sense of the law of nations, and that this acknowledgment gives him the standing of a public enemy, capable of contracting treaties. On the contrary, the United States, for the sake of humanity only, have applied the rules of regular warfare to the present rebellion—a generous conduct which the enemy has requited with barbarous cruelty towards our captured sons and brothers, and with a callous disregard of many of the rules of humanity, faith and honor which civilized people observe in modern wars.
Resolved, That no reëstablishment of peace can take place, and that no conferences with any insurgents whatever ought to be entered into, except on the following basis and premises distinctly and plainly laid down and defined, namely:
1. 1.No armistice on any account.
2. 2.No foreign mediation.
3. 3.No slavery.
4. 4.No assumption of the Southern debt.
5. 5.No state rights inconsistent with the supreme and paramount authority of the Union, and, above all, no right of secession.
6.No diminution of our country by one inch of land or one drop of water.
Resolved, That the President and Secretary communicate these resolutions to the kindred associations of the land, inviting them to express their opinion on the subject of the same.”
The Richmond Examiner of the 7th, in a long editorial, advocates and justifies the seizure by the rebel authorities, on the plea of military necessity, of all the slaves, cotton and tobacco within the Confederacy. It says:
“The question whether negro slaves, and how many negro slaves are to be taken for the army, or that other question whether Government is to be empowered to take and use all the cotton and tobacco in the Confederacy to sustain public credit, are to be judged as a measure of public polity, and to be adopted or rejected according to their promise of efficiency or otherwise for the public service.
Difference of opinion may be admissible as to the experience or probable efficiency of either of the measures in question, but no difference whatsoever as to the right—for that point of difference there is not an inch of ground to stand upon, and any observation upon it is irrelevant.”
The Mobile Advertiser and Register, of Jan. 20th, makes this remarkable confession:--
“We do not attempt to disguise the fact, that the Confederate cause is at this moment passing through its most dangerous crisis. Large numbers of people— perhaps, upon a fair poll, the majority—are heart-sick of the war, and are willing to end it upon terms which would have been scouted at as treasouable, two years, or even one year, ago. Even the class of slaveholders having the deepest pecuniary stake in the struggle for independence, are ready to make sacrifices, the mention of which, a short time ago, would not have been tolerated. We have not a doubt that the country, including the slave proprietors, large and small, would compromise to-day for peace and independence on the basis of a gradual and universal emancipation of the blacks. We may go further, and say that large numbers would be willing to give up all their cherished, thoughts of independence, and exchange the institution for naked peace, upon terms of reconstruction. This is a great change, a wonderful revolution of public sentiment, resulting from four years of tremendous conflict.”
GOV. ANDREW. Senator Morgan, of New York, presented to President Lincoln, on the 17th inst., a memorial signed by a large number of the leading business men of New York city, asking the appointment of John A. Andrew to a seat in the Cabinet. Subsequently a delegation of Massachusetts gentlemen called on the President by appointment and placed in his hands a memorial from the members of the Executive Department and of the Legislature and from the merchants of Boston, also recommending the appointment of Gov. Andrew. The President received the delegation very cordially.
THE FREEDMEN IN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF. The annual report of the Superintendent of the Bureau of Free Labor at New Orleans shows the following result: The number of freedmen now supported by the Government is 1400; expenses to the Government for the year, $113,500. Number of freedmen on plantations in the Department managed by the bureau is 50,000; on plantations under culture by military order 15,000; amount of property transferred to the treasury, $1,000,240.
GENERAL BANKS. The Springfield Republican says that General Banks has made his report on the military campaigns at the Southwest, has given his testimony before the Committee on the Conduct of the War, and has prepared and published the history and condition of the reconstruction of civil affairs in Louisiana; and now he awaits the order of the President for future service. But, not to permit the government or the public or himself to feel that he was a superfluous appendage to either the military or civil list, he has offered his resignation to both the Secretary of War and President, and both have declined to accept it.
THE REBEL SENATOR FOOTE. Hangman Foote, .who is now en route to Europe, positively refused Mr. Seward’s request to take the oath of allegiance, stating that he would never return to the Confederacy, that it was a failure, but he could not renounce his own country. Permission was then given him to leave for Europe on parole, not to return during the war without permission.
An ESTIMATE OF THE FEELINGS OF “HUMAN CATTLE.” Hon. Gustavus Adolphus Henry, Senator from Tennessee in the Confederate Congress, in the great War Meeting in the African Church at Richmond on the 9th inst., said:
“My idea is this: I would employ one or two hundred thousand negroes in the army, I would bestow upon them freedom on the battle-field, when they drove the enemy from the field. I would then set them free. But I would not then free their families; for what sort of freedom would that be which would entail upon the negro the care of his wife and three or four children without the means by which to support them? No, the negro don’t care who is not free, so he is free. In fact, he would beg you to take back his wife and children and support them for him.”
FORT ANDERSON CAPTURED. Fort Anderson was captured on Sunday last by Gen. Schofield and Admiral Porter. Most of the garrison escaped towards Wilmington, though the fort and all the guns were left in good condition.
The army was following on toward Wilmington, accompanied by the monitors, and it was expected by the messenger that Wilmington would be in our possession on Monday.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Tribune says: “Mr. Sumner’s demonstration of the injustice and oppressive influence of a railroad monoply, in the Senate to-day, was so exhaustive and masterly that the friends of reform do not desire any further argument on this side, and will only ask the Senate to dispose of the bill by a direct vote at the earliest moment.”
EXPECTED EVACUATION OF RICHMOND. The N. Y. Herald’s Washington despatch says there are again strong indications that Lee is preparing to evacuate Richmond and fall back to Lynchburg for a final stand. It is positively stated that the valuable machinery and medical stores have already been removed, and it is anticipated that within fifteen days the capital will be abandoned.
    NEWBERN, N. C., Feb. 16. A rebel paper says that soon after Raleigh is garrisoned by the Federals, the, whole State of North Carolina will secede from the Confederacy, and a majority of the Conservative party will return to the Union. The rebels are removing their supplies from Wilmington. It is estimated that there are over $160,000,000 worth of cotton stored from Wilmington along the line of railroads reaching into South Carolina and the southern part of North Carolina, which the rebels have been ordered to burn as fast as the Federals appear.

<c06>
DlED—In Roxbury, 21st inst., JANE SISSON, wife of Charles H. <W>, aged 37 years.
In Cambridgeport, Jan. 21st, HENRY JOHNSON, aged 46. Deceased sustained an excellent reputation, and was connected with the Associated Brothers of Union, the Union Progressive Association, and the Shaw Guards’—each of which was represented at his funeral.

THIRD EDITION.
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR. 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready.
In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICA CALCULATIONS, it contains:
United States Government, Ministers, &c.
Senators and Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIXth Congress, so far as chosen.
LAWS passed at the last Session of Congress.
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago.)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born People.
Election Return, for President, Governors, Congressmen, &c., in1864, compared with the Presidential Vote in 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures meet, Time of State Elections.
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1854, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage, &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. New York.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS 
FOR FEBRUARY.
CONTENTS.
Spirits in Prison. By Rev. O. B. FROTHINGHAM.
Midnight Watching. (Poetry.) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
New Belief and Old Opinion. By Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNE. A Critical Survey of the Beliefs and Opinions of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher.
Mrs. Eliza Farnham.
Jennie Dunleath. (Poetry.) By ALICE CARY. An American Church, the Complement to the American State. By R. T. HALLOCK.
The Bequest of Spiritualism. By T. W. HIGGINSON.
Minor Topics. Our Library, &c.
Singe copies, 20 cents. $2 per year.
To be procured of all News dealers.
Adderss C. M. PLUMB & CO.,
Feb. 24. 274 Canal St., New York.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet--said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, far a untensila and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs. Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
So wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is care fully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of <W>, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an alterative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT. <W> the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Jan, 6. 2m.

MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.
1 cston, Dec. 20 1864.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
W
OULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No.31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX<W> BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street’ Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
FORGIVENESS.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
"Thank God for the merciful Hereafter, in which we may retrieve the blunders we make here!"
L. M. ALCOTT’S "MOODS."
Forgiven-yes! by all that bitter anguish 
Of dreary days and nights of sleepless pain;
By vain regret o’er which life’s forces languish—
Forgiven all which tortures heart or brain.
Not thine alone to say, "I was mistaken"—
That human lot another soul must own; 
Who says no rash, wrong step he o’er has taken,
To him his deepest self is not yet known.
Forgiven-yes! It may be never, never,
These breathing lips the blessed word shall speak;
One sad mistake time-destinies may sever—
A morning comes these night-spells all to break.
"Thanks, Father, for that merciful Hereafter
In which our blunders here may be retrieved";
There means of pain are changed for joyous laughter,
And souls in bliss forget they ever grieved.
Forgiven—yes! From all my holiest being
I breathe a blessing for the time to be;
So may our Gracious Judge, the All-Hearts-Seeing,
Forgive my errors as I pardon thee!
10 Temple Place, Boston, Feb. 12. 1865.
MISSOURI A FREE STATE.
Star of the West, send forth thy glowing light,
To sister States, still lost in error’s night,
Redeemed from Slavery’s stain, thy chain unbound,
Thy brow with new and holier beauty crowned;
Come to the loyal band that waits for thee,
And guard with us the birthright of the free;
From North and West rings forth thy welcome home,
Glorious in thy fair strength, young sister, come!
Oh! beautiful and bright one, list the voice
That bids the free of every clime rejoice!
Clasp hands with Kansas o’er the sparkling tide,
Where, years ago, her patriot sons have died;
The fearful ordeal she then passed is now
A diadem of glory for her brow;
Thou, too, that self-same shadowed path hast trod;
Thou, too, art saved, redeemed, and blessed of God.
See! sudden light bursts forth where Freedom stands,
Bearing the sword and olive in her hands,
Above her head the Stars and Stripes unfurled,
In her calm eyes strength that defies the world;
And while her silvery voice invites return,
Around her circle warriors brave and stern—
Their vow sublime, enregistered on high,
"We guard her shrine, or at her feet we die!"
Praise to our God! Another State is free!
Let the glad anthem sound o’oer shore and sea!
Speak, Grant, from proud Virginia’s rivers broad;
Sherman, from Georgia send thine answering word!
Let joyful songs of victory nobly blend
With the warm-welcome words we gladly send;
Till martyred heroes, bending earthward, see
A realm united, and a people free.
January, 1865.
Independent Democrat.
MISSOURI IS FREE.
Missouri is free, Missouri is free!—
Hark! the loud song of triumph ascending on high!
His chains torn asunder, the bondman with wonder,
Praises God, whose right arm brought deliverance nigh.
Missouri is free!
Her men thus have spoken, every chain now is broken,
Every fetter is sundered; every shackle is burst;
And for all coming ages her great heart engages
To fight against treason and slavery accursed.
Missouri is free!
When Fremont’s proclamation first startled the nation,
In Missouri the echoes first fell on the ear,
The captives awaken, their dungeons are shaken,
And the doom of oppression is proclaimed loud and clear.
Missouri is free!
No more in her borders civil war and disorders
Are invoked and awakened at slavery’s behest;
By liberty guarded, with plenty rewarded,;
In God’s blessing reposing, the land shall have rest.
LIBERTY TO ALL.
BY MRS P. A. HANAFORD.
Hotter glows the fiery furnace,
Hotter glows the fiery furnace,
Higher rise the flames,
Faster on the list of glory
Throng the immortal names.
What shall be the end at last,
When the war is overpast?
Tears, like summer showers, are falling,
Crushing summer blooms;
Human hearts are daily bleeding
In a thousand homes;
What shall be the glory gained,
What the glad result attained?
Freedom is the blessed burden
Of each weary year,
And the birth-throes of her glory
Are the groans we hear:
God will give his people rest
When with freedom all are blest!
Reading, Mass.
PEACE.
O that the bells in all these silent spires
Would clash their clanger on the sleeping air,
Ring their wild music out with throbbing choirs,
Ring peace in everywhere!
O that this wave of sorrow surging o’er
The red, red land would wash away its stain—
Drown out the angry fire from shore to shore,
And give it peace again!
On last year’s blossoming graves, with summer calm,
Loud in his happy tangle hums the bee;
Nature forgets her hurt, and finds her balm—
Alas! and why not we?
Spirit of God! that moved upon the face
Of waters, and bade ancient chaos cease,
Shine, shine again o’er this tumultuous space,
Thou that art Prince of Peace!
Harper’s Monthly Magazine
"UPON THE JUST AND THE UNJUST,"
No stint, no measure, waiting not our call,
Our Father's liberal hand 
Opens, and lets His choicest blessings fall
On sea and smiling land.
The sunshine and the dew, the fostering rain,
The breezes warm and sweet,
The wild birds singing, and the soft refrain
That loitering brooks repeat,—
Aye, and not less the wintry storms that sweep
O’er ocean, hill and glade,
Show with what love unchanging, pure and deep,
God guards what He hath made.
Oh, thankless, cold of heart, and wed to sin,
Pass thou not idly by
The blessings that thy life might garner in,
Blessings not born to die!
With what rebuke our selfishness must stand
In His all-perfect sight!
We give but where we love; His bounteous hand
Closes nor day nor night.
And when we fain would judge or coldly scorn
The sinner’s darkened ways,
Thou, who with us so patiently hath horne,
Teach us instead thy praise!
Boston Transcript.
GOODNESS.
A name, however grand, departs,
And fame, however bright, must fade;
But goodness lives in minds and hearts,
Like sunshine unobscured by shade.
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, February 1st, 1865.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I hand you herewith an article offered for insertion in one of the daily papers, but declined, whether as being too " incendiary," or as rendering premature because not posthumous honor, is only conjecturable.
Failing audience thus, I will not seek farther, but ask an opportunity in your own columns to express, in my fashion, a word of honest admiration.
I have called it an individual opinion, but at the same time believe it to be coincident with the most elevated and intelligent sentiment of the community, and couched in moderate phrase.
If it be non-committal in respect to the controversy specially alluded to, it is partly for the sake of adaptation to the latitude for which it was first intended, and partly from lack of information of the details of that controversy, and not from any antecedent doubts of the correctness of your views.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANIEL W. BAKER.
HONOR TO HONOR WHOM.
The Convention of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, which took place in this city last week, served to demonstrate, with much distinctness and no little emphasis, the differences of opinion existing between the two leaders of that organization.
Concerning these opinions—at least, in their personal relations—those who profess to belong to the outer (not the come-outer) portion of the community may with propriety choose to be either indifferent or silent; in that "War of Roses" we need not mingle.
Of Mr. Phillips’s intellectual penetration and argumentative power, there can be no question; and as little can there be of Mr. Garrison’s fealty and zeal in the cause with which his name is identified.
Perhaps the best advice in the premises is that which is contained in Goethe’s remark to Schiller, of those of their countrymen who were publicly disputing which of the two was greater, that "they ought rather to thank their stars that they had two such men to quarrel about."
Yet it seems to us, that considering the recent past, a word of recognition and of appreciation on the part of those, who, claiming no less earnestness of purpose, have preferred a more measured and conservative policy, is justly due to the always conspicuous—and, anticipating the voice of history, shall we not now say—eminent founder of the anti-slavery reform?
ougyrant a column for the expression of an individual opinion?
The obsequies of him who, by general consent, has been denominated "our first citizen," have just been celebrated; and in all the comment which the event has occasioned, no voice has been heard but that of generous respect and eulogy.
A circumstance so infrequent in recent American political biography has not, of course, failed to attract attention, and more especially as the political relation of the eminent deceased had been for a long series of years strongly antagonistic to vast numbers (perhaps we should say majorities) of his fellow-citizens.
The anomaly has found no more apt explanation than in the funeral address of Rev. Mr. Ellis:—
"What is it, friends, that has made this man so very dear to the people, I do not say to scholars, to the few, but to the people, yea, their foremost citizen in these times when God has made ‘a man more precious than fine gold, even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir’? Why is the announcement of his sudden death by the President of the United States only the utterance of a nation’s sorrowing heart? I answer—you answer—not merely because he was your scholar, and a ripe good one, not merely because he was your orator, one of the most eloquent and instructive of men; your’ chief speaker for every grand and good occasion; not merely because of his life-long service to Letters and to the Education of the People; not merely because of his labors for the State, at home and abroad, in ordinary times, honorable, admirable as he ever was in these things; but because in the hour of sore trial, and when the nation’s very life hung in the balance, and patriotism was something more than an idle word for the trifler to ring changes upon, he has proved himself to be first, last, only and altogether a patriot, an American indeed in whom was no guile, resolved at all costs to himself, of old friendships if need be, of old prejudices, of costliest possessions, to do his whole duty to the land and the people of his affections, as to the mother that bore him and nourished him, and led him up to his grand and serviceable manhood."
The immense influence for good, which, by taking this stand, Mr. Everett exerted, need not be dwelt upon here; but what is observable is, that the glad homage which the thinking as well as the thoughtless were prompt to exhibit upon his decease arose, on the part of the former, not from considerations alone of he effect of his action, but from admiration of the moral vigor which thus (and never before so clearly) shone forth, and was perceived to be a central trait of his character.
While, for these reasons, we honor the dead, have we not equal occasion to do justice to the living? The course which Mr. Garrison saw fit to pursue in the late political contest is one which, it seems to us, entitles him to the express approbation of just and thoughtful persons.
It is to be observed that Mr. Garrison, no less than Mr. Everett, had to contend with the most difficult and trying of all opposition—that of established friendship; that accusations of weakness, timidity, infidelity to acknowledged principles, inconsistency with past actions and precepts, and hypocrisy, were with equal ease flung at the Reformer and the Conservative—perhaps not most readily as respects the latter. To resist and rise above these besetting influences, assailant, let us remember, upon the weakest side—to do it when there might be personal suspicion or consciousness that it did involve, in whatever degree, a contradiction of some former perceptions—indicates, as was said before, the possession of the highest moral qualities; and it is these, as all agree in the abstract, that should chiefly and at all times command our veneration.
The worst accusation that has been made against Mr. Garrison is fanaticism. But are we not obliged to confess the misnomer, when we see that it is a fanaticism which can be put off as a vesture for what all acknowledge as the purest sanity, when the fate of the nation and the hope of republican freedom are hanging in the balance?
Of the influence of Mr. Garrison, in respect to the recent election, little need be said. That it was not despicable is evinced by the fact that Mr. Phillips stated, the other evening, that letters had been privately addressed to him, by members of Congress, to ascertain the opinion of the Massachusetts abolitionists respecting political measures now pending; —a sufficient proof that ultra, and, as it has generally been considered, impracticable anti-slavery is not insignificant among the "powers behind the throne."
The historian of the present time, in making up his record of that canvass, will not consider the voice and the press of Mr. Garrison an unimportant ingredient (to borrow a metaphor from the laboratory) among the political elements then in solution, which crystallized in the re-election of President Lincoln.
Rumors are abroad, not indeed that that voice is to be silenced, but that that press is to be stopped—at least so far as the withdrawal of certain subscriptions can effect it. But we venture the opinion, that where the editor has lost openly one friend, he has gained in secret a hundred by his patriotic course—so that we do not anticipate the event suggested.
And now that the topic is up, we cannot help expressing, from an esthetic point of view, a wish that the somewhat hideous frontispiece which has heretofore, with emphasis, illustrated but has never adorned the Liberator, might be withdrawn, making it more presentable in boudoirs and upon centre-tables.
We spoke of the Conservative and the Reformer. It has lately been said, with intended personal derision, that "the lion and the lamb have lain down together," but the sarcasm fails, and falls harmless. I
<c03>
is to the credit of any, among those who may be considered the representatives of these two warring tendencies, that they could in an exigency combine in a common effort—that they could ascend above the whirlwind and dust, the storms and fogs of ordinary politics, to an unvexed atmosphere—the atmosphere of Patriotism, in the best sense of that word, and unite in the pledge, properly climacteric, both in rhetoric and morals—"One Country, One Constitution," One LIBERTY."
GLORIA IN EXCELSIS!-TE DEUM LAUDAMUS!
CAPE ANN, Feb. 1, 1865.
DEAR GARRISON—Never did I shout "Glory to God in the highest!" with a will so hearty as I have today. Never have I thrown my soul so wholly and triumphantly into that sublime hymn of exultation,
"We praise thee, O God!"
as I have this day. News has reached here that slavery (that sum of all villanies) is forever prohibited within the limits of the United States!
Jan. 1st, 1831, in the first number of the Liberator, you said to the nation, in regard to this great wrong, "I WILL BE HEARD." Thirty-four years you and your fellow-laborers thundered in the ears of the people, "Break every yoke!"-"Let the oppressed go free!" On the 8th of November the nation answered, through the ballot, "We will!" Yesterday, through Congress, the nation answered again, saying, "We will not only break every yoke, but never will we, as a nation, recognize the existence of a slave on one foot of the territory over which our government holds jurisdiction."
Dear friend, what a change! Thirty-five years ago, the American Government, backed up by the American Church, was the bulwark of American slavery. Yesterday, Jan. 31st, 1865, that Republic thus incorporated into its organic law these words:-
"ARTICLE XIII.
"SECT. 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
SECT. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
This is the emphatic and sublime response given by the nation to the remarks of a young man, poor, without a name, and standing alone, as it were, with all the political, ecclesiastical, literary, social, commercial and military power of twenty-five millions against him, when, thirty-five years ago, he raised his voice against slavery, and calmly and defiantly said-"I WILL BE HEARD!" In the exercise of a free ballot the people answered it (Nov. 8, 1864,) in the re-election of Lincoln by a majority of nearly five hundred thousand. They will again respond in the ratification of this grand Act of their Congress through their State Legislatures. The work is done, well and thoroughly done, so far as the nation can do it. The signers of the Declaration of Independence, and the noble men and women who, for seven years, consecrated themselves to the vindication of that Declaration, bend from their high stations, and unite their hearts with ours in that song of triumph—TE DEUM LAUDAMUS.
The deed is done. I ask not who did it, nor what motives prompted to it. The deed is done, and the countless millions that are to possess this Republic, and people this continent, and the earth’s toiling millions in all coming time, will keep it in grateful and honored remembrance. For this day, and to this end, we have watched, waited, prayed and labored together thirty-five years. I can say, in truth, that the action of the nation, yesterday, compensates me, a thousand fold, for all I have done and suffered. Indeed, why talk of suffering? In the consciousness of well-doing have I received my reward ten thousand fold for all the sacrifices I have made in my conflict with this dastardly, most malignant, and most murderous foe of God and man—Slavery. Ever since I got the news of the action of Congress yesterday, I have just wandered about among the rocks and trees, and in snow-drifts, shouting in my heart, and often with my tongue, "SLAVERY IS DEAD! The bloody demon is gone to his own place!" Now, the next great work to be done is to heal the wounds made by it on the enslaved and the enslaver; to repair the desolations it has left- on the domestic, social, intellectual, spiritual and physical conditions of its victims.
I have fought long, according to my knowledge and ability, against the greatest of earth’s crimes and curses, American slavery. Whether my name shall ever be mentioned in connection with this great victory, I care not. It will stand. Property in the bodies and souls of men is forever prohibited by the organic law of the republic. The slave is free, never more to be a chattel in this nation.
Another fact will stand: i.e., thy thought is become the nation’s thought: thy spirit (so far as slavery is concerned) now stands at the helm of State, and guides the destiny of the nation and the continent. Now I can only say to this republic:
"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For, though darkness covered thee, and gross darkness thy people, yet the Lord shall rise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. And the nations shall come to thy light, and all people to the brightness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round about, and see; all people gather themselves together; they come to thee. Thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters be nursed in thy bosom. The nations wait for thee, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and gold with them, to build up thy desolate places. Violence shall no more be heard in thy land; wasting nor destruction within thy borders; for thou shalt call thy walls Salvation, and thy gates Praise; for the Lord shall be thy light, and the God of freedom thy glory."
Who shall tell the future of this republic if she will but abide the stand taken yesterday in regard to slavery? I can only end as I began, with-"Glory, Hallelujah!"
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. Feb. 7. What a shout goes up from the nation’s heart on the death of slavery! Dead, so far as its abolition and prohibition can make it dead. Illinois, Maryland, and Little Rhody the first to ratify the deed of death to the loathsome monster. New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and other States, all eager to accept and bless the deed. The meeting in Music Hall, last Saturday evening, and William Lloyd Garrison, Benjamin F. Butler, Josiah Quincy, and thousands of all sects, creeds and parties in politics and religion, all blending their hearts and voices in a cong of shout and triumph! Indeed, the nation’s heart seems to have rolled off a mountain’s weight, and to burst forth "in thanksgiving and the voice of melody" at the great deliverance. No more pleading the Constitution to justify the existence or extension of or a compromise with slavery. No more talk about the right of States to establish slavery, and make merchandise of men and women. No more appeals to the compromises of the Constitution to justify turning human beings into brutes and chattels. No more trouble in reconstructing the Union, on account of slavery. No State can come into the Union with a slave; for over the door into the Union are these words, no more to be erased:
SLAVERY AND INVOLUNTARY SERVITUDE ARE FOREVER PROHIBITED WITHIN THIS TEMPLE OF LIBERTY.
Deeply do I regret that the Abolitionists cannot come together, and raise one great shout of jubilee over this event, so fraught with a glorious future to the sons and daughters of toil, to whom nations and kingdoms owe their greatness and their glory. Who has so good a right to shout as they? But we can and will blend our hearts and voices with the nation’s heart and voice, and sing TE DEUM LAUDAMUS! This act of the American republic will carry dismay and despair to the despots of the world, of whatever name or nation, as nothing else has ever done. The tyrant’s sceptre is broken. To repair the waste places and restore the desolations of slavery is the work given us now to do. H. C. W.
<c04>
SEPARATION.
I request space for this communication, that I may give expression to the sentiments of several friends of peace, who are strongly desirous of the abolition of slavery, but do not content that it should be effected by war, which is deemed to be a greater evil and crime. The number of such persons yet known to me is small; but there is reason to believe that this opinion extensively pervades the community, though now held in silence from ignorance of its extent, and a fear of weakening the power of Government in the war. We are decided in the belief, that peace with the seceded Confederacy cannot be made, unless the independence of that Confederacy is recognized, even if a complete conquest is effected, which does not now appear to us probable. The question then, with us, is only one of time-whether it is not better to give this recognition voluntarily now, and thus obtain a peace and cessation of all our losses; or to be compelled to give it, after years of further slaughter, losses and sorrow, with the disgrace of defeat, or at the dictation of a foreign power.
Under the heroic impulse of the Anti-Slavery Society, slavery, after years of opposition, was seen to be the grievous evil and wrong of our country; and this sentiment was expanding in our community till it had attained such a prevalence as gave promise of its entire abolition by peaceful influence; but before the secession occurred, no thought was entertained that it should be eradicated by coercion of those who maintained it. Abolitionists proposed to accelerate its extinction by separation from the slave States; a measure too much opposed to the general love of the Union to be hoped for ages.
In this state of circumstances, the sudden secession from the Union of some of the slave States, of their own accord, appeared to promote the object of abolitionists more safely and effectually than could be done by any efforts at the North; and offered a fair opportunity to urge on the Federal government the acceptance of this secession, as the most certain, as well as the most legitimate method of accomplishing emancipation, and thus of relieving the free States from all participation in the great evil and disgrace of slavery; and it was a matter of great surprise, that pacific abolitionists should then abandon their disunion doctrines, and put their peace principles in silent abeyance, in the expectation that, evil and wrong as the martial mode of abolition was, the happy result would be the freedom and harmony of all.
It is the opinion of those I represent, that events have now so developed circumstances, that the reasons inducing’ Abolitionists to acquiesce in the war and union policy have ceased to be of force; and it is, therefore, an unnecessary violation of their former peace principles. The trial, we think, has been sufficiently made; and it is now clear to our minds—1. That the war, as at present conducted, is not so near its termination as is usually supposed, but will yet require such immensely further sacrifices of life, property, liberty and morality, as will quite overbalance the most successful attainment of its professed objects. 2. That the total abolition of American slavery, by the conquest of the seceded States, is not a certainty, nor perhaps a probability; and with the present exasperation of the belligerents, such a conquest cannot effect a cordial or peaceful union. 3. That the necessity for a large permanent military force, to maintain a union acquired by coercion, will only change chattel bondage, in a part of the nation, to a more unrighteous military despotism over all the States. 4. That a recognition of the independence of the seceded States, and an immediate peace, would render it necessary for the border States soon to abolish their slavery; and thus exempt the free States from all responsibility for its maintenance; and would probably bring it to an end, even in the extreme South, sooner than can be done by the resisted operation of war.
We have reason to believe that these views are entertained by many sincere and zealous Abolitionists, though kept in the dark from a desire to avoid discord. A fearless advocacy of them by the Liberator—for which there is now a good opening—would not only restore its old magnanimous ground of "No Union with Slaveholders," but would unite all the varying anti-slavery views; would attract the cooperation of many of the parties opposing the Administration; and encourage such public expressions as might influence it to secure a permanent peace, to resume its suppressed republican liberty, its repudiated and banished Christianity. J. P. B.
AN OFFICER ON THE COLORED SOLDIERS.
As to availability for military drill and duty in other respects, the only question I ever hear debated among the officers is, whether they are equal or superior to whites. I have never heard it suggested that they were inferior, although I expected frequently to hear such complaints from hasty or unsuccessful officers. Of one thing I am sure, that their best qualities will be wasted by merely keeping them for garrison duty. They seem peculiarly fitted for offensive operations, and especially for partizan war fare; they have so much dash and such abundant resources, combined with such an Indian-like knowledge of the country and its ways. These traits have been of ten illustrated in expeditions sent after deserters. For instance, I dispatched one of my best lieutenants and my best sergeant with a squad of men to search a certain plantation, where there were two separate villages. They went by night, and the force was divided. The lieutenant took one set of huts, the sergeant the other. Before the lieutenant had reached his first house, every man in the village was in the woods, innocent and guilty alike. But the sergeant’s mode of operation was thus described by a corporal from a white regiment who happened to be in one of the negro houses. He said that not a sound was heard until suddenly a red leg appeared in the open doorway, and a voice outside said, "rally." Going to the door, he observed a similar pair of red legs before every hot, and not a person was allowed to go out, until the quarters had been thoroughly searched by Sargeant Prince Rivers, our color-sergeant, who is provost-sergeant also, and has entire charge of the prisoners, and of the daily policing of the camp. He is a man of distinguished appearance, and in old times was the crack coachman of Beaufort, in which capacity he once drove Beauregard from this plantation to Charleston, I believe. They tell me that he was once allowed to present a petition to the Governor of South Carolina in behalf of slaves, for the redress of certain grievances; and that a placard, offering two thousand dollars for his recapture, is still to be seen by the wayside between here and Charleston. He was a sergeant in the old "Hunter Regiment," and was taken by General Hunter to New York last spring, where the chevrons on his arm brought a mob upon him in Broadway, whom he kept off till the police interfered. There is not a white officer in this regiment who has more administrative ability, or more absolute authority over the men; they do not love him, but his mere presence has controlling power over them. He writes well enough to prepare for me a daily report of his duties in the camp; if his education reached a higher point, I see no reason why he should not command the army of the Potomac. He is jet-black, or rather, I should say, wine-black; his complexion, like that of others of my darkest men, having a sort of rich, clear depth, without a trace of sootiness, and to my eye very handsome. His features are tolerably regular and full of command, and his figure superior to that of any of our white officers,-being six feet high, perfectly proportioned, and of apparently inexhaustible strength and activity. His gait is like a panther’s; I never saw such a tread. No anti-slavery novel has described a man of such marked ability. He makes Toussaint perfectly intelligible; and if there should ever be a black monarchy in South Carolina, he will be its king.
Mr. Foote has gone to Europe, government, apparently, not thinking him worth the cost of his keep—board, lodging, and washing. But what if he has tricked us? What if all his quarreling with Mr. Davis, and his being arrested, was only meant to get an opportunity to go to Europe as a very extraordinary envoy from the rebel chiefs? It would be just like the rascals thus to humbug us, and it would be very much like us to be thus humbugged.
<c05>
LEGAL KIDNAPPING,
Or, Provision for a Sane Person’s Imprisonment.
From the "Disclosures" of Mrs. Packard’s book, it appears a self-evident fact that one State of our Union has an express provision for the imprisonment of married woman who are not insane. And this process of legal kidnapping is most strikingly illustrated in the facts developed in Mrs. Packard’s own experience, as delineated in her book entitled "The Great Drama."
The following is a copy of the Law, as it now stands on the Illinois Statute Book:—
"AMENDATORY ACT."
"Session Laws 15, 1851. Page 96."
Sec. 10. "Married women and infants who, in the judgment of the Medical Superintendent, [meaning the Superintendent of the "Illinois State Hospital" for the insane] are evidently insane or distracted, may be entered or detained in the Hospital on the request of the husband, or the woman or guardian of the infants, without the evidence of insanity required in other cases."
Hon. S. S. Jones of St. Charles, Illinois, thus remarks upon this Act: —
"Thus we see a corrupt husband, with money enough to corrupt a Superintendent, can get rid of a wife as effectually as was ever done in a more barbarous age. That Superintendent may be corrupted either with money or influence, that he thinks will give him position, place, or emoluments. Is not this a pretty statute to be incorporated into our laws no more than thirteen years ago? Why not confine the husband at the instance of the wife, as well as the wife at the instance of the husband? The wife evidently had no voice in making the law.
Who, being a man, and seeing this section in the Statute Book of Illinois, under the general head of "Charities," does not blush and hang his head for very shame at legislative perversion of so holy a term? I have no doubt, if the truth of the matter were known, this act was passed at the special instance of the Superintendent. A desire for power. I do not know why it has not been noted by me and others before."
And we would also venture to inquire. What is the married woman’s protection under such a Statute Law? Is she not allowed counter testimony from a physician of her own choice, or can she not demand a trial of some kind, to show whether the charge of insanity brought against her is true or false? Nay, verily. The Statute expressly states that the judgment of the medical Superintendent, to whom the husband’s request is made, is all that is required for him to incarcerate his wife for any indefinite period of time. Neither she, her children, nor her relatives have any voice at all in the matter. Her imprisonment may be life-long, for any thing she or her friends can do for her to prevent it. If the husband has money or influence enough to corrupt the officials, he can carry out his single wishes concerning his wife’s life-destiny.
Are not the "Divorce Laws" of Illinois made a necessity, to meet the demands of the wife, as her only refuge from this exposure to a "false imprisonment" "for life in an Insane Asylum?
We hope our readers will be able to read Mrs. Packard’s book for themselves; especially her "Self-defence from the charge of Insanity," wherein the barbarities of this statute are made to appear in their true light, as being merely a provision for "" Legal Kidnapping." The first volume of her "Great Drama" "is now for sale at Lee & Shepard’s Bookstore, 149 Washington Street, opposite the Old South. A.
—Boston Universalist.
SUFFRAGE FOR WOMEN.
EDITOR COMMONWEALTH:—I desire to draw your attention, and that of your readers, to the statement of "M. D. C," in a late letter upon the voting of women in Australia, that this was the first exercise of the right of suffrage by women. I do not know whether your correspondent is responsible for this statement, or whether he simply permits the editor of the London Times to make it without remark. No advocate of universal suffrage, however, must be permitted an equivocal position.
During the last ten years, I have steadily endeavored to press the fact that, in contending for the right of suffrage for women, in order that they may modify the laws which are to protect and control them, neither I, nor any one else, claims anything new, but the restoration of an old privilege. There was no difficulty about female suffrage, so long as the franchise depended upon property; but as the more modern interpretation of human rights brought a new basis to its support, women were more restrained in consequence.
I can do very little in a newspaper paragraph to elucidate this subject, but I should like to direct your attention to a few facts.
So long as political power was of an absolute and hereditary character, women shared it, whenever they happened, by birth, to hold the position to which it is attached. In Hungary, in some of the German States, and in the French provinces to this day, certain women, holding an inherited right, confer the franchise upon their husbands; and in widowhood empower some relative or accredited agent to be the legislative protector of their property. In 1858, the Stockholm Afton lad, a newspaper, stated that the authorities of the old university town of Upsal had granted the right of suffrage to fifty women owning real estate, and to thirty-one doing business on their own account. The representative that their votes elected was to sit in the House of Burgesses. In Blackwood for November, 1854, the following statement will be found as regards Scotland:-"I believe, Eusebius, I speak of a notorious fact when I say that it is less than a century since, for election purposes, parties were unblushingly married in cases where women conveyed a political franchise, and parted after the election." (I will not continue the quotation, to show how impiously.) In Ireland, the Court of Queen’s Bench, Dublin, restored to women, in January, 1864, the old right of voting for town commissioners. The Justice, Fitzgerald, desired to state that ladies were also entitled to sit as town commissioners, as well as to vote for them, and the Chief Justice took pains to make it clear that there was nothing in the act of voting repugnant to their habits. In November, 1864, the government of Moravia decided that all women who were tax-payers had the right to vote. In the government of Pitcairn’s Island, women over sixteen have voted ever since its settlement.
But, you will say, these countries are provinces, or second-rate powers;—what of England and America? Ladies of birth and quality sat in the Saxon Witas. In Wighfred’s great council at Beconceld, in 694, the abbesses sat and deliberated, and five of them signed its decrees. King Edgar’s charters, in 961, were signed by nobles and abbesses alike. In Henry the Third’s and Edward the First’s time, four abbesses were summoned to Parliament. In the time of Edward Third, ten abbesses were summoned to appear as they chose, in person or by proxy. In Canada, in 1850, a distinct electoral privilege was conferred on women, in the hope that thereby the Protestant might balance the Roman Catholic power in the school system. I lived where I saw this right exercised by female property-holders for four years. I never heard the most cultivated man, not even that noble gentleman, the late Lord Elgin, object to its results. In New Jersey, the constitution, adopted in 1776, gave the right of suffrage to all inhabitants of either sex, who possessed fifty dollars in proclamation money. In, 1790, to make it clearer, the Assembly inserted the words "he or she." Women voted there till 1808, when the votes of some colored women having decided an election, the prejudice against the negro came to the aid of lordly supremacy, and an act was passed limiting the right of suffrage to "free white male citizens." In 1852, the Kentucky Legislature conferred the right on widows with children in matters relating to the school system. The same right was conferred in Michigan; and full suffrage was given to women in the State constitution submitted to Kansas in 1860. I do not know whether or not it was so accepted.
Minor instances might be multiplied, but these are the most important. Women certainly have every reason to plead for intelligence as the basis of suffrage, for the real obstacle to their obtaining the suffrage lies in the ignorant prejudices of the masses, as represented in the law-given. Must they wait till emergencies, born of social convulsions, set them free? or will good men everywhere begin to consider whether the religious and moral intuitions of woman might not be of service to the government.?
CAROLINE H. DALL.
No. 70 WARREN AVENUE, BOSTON, Feb. 11.
Commonwealth.
<c06>
RAVINGS OF THE CHIVALRY.
The Charleston Mercury of the 12th inst. Contains an article giving a deplorable account of the condition of the rebel armies in South Carolina and Georgia, characterizing them as a band of straggles and outlaws. It says:
Before bringing ourselves to face the enemy, it is absolutely essential that those in command should bring themselves to face the vital evils existent with, in our lines. The path we are now traveling is racy has arrived in fatal earnest. The result of the next six months will bring the Confederacy to the ground, or will reinstate its power. Without reform we are doomed. There is more than one department of government in which reform is important. But reform in our armies is essential—is vital. Without it the death-knell of the Confederacy is already tolled. With the proper reforms made, he is a coward who carries his heart in his boots. There are men in the land—there is fight in the land!. It is the imbecile that is sick at heart—it is the coward whose stomach is weak. There is nothing before us that cannot be overcome; but to do it, there must be a new state of things instituted. We say again, there must be nerve. Men in command must not be afraid to die—they must not be afraid to kill. Officers must be killed—not mere privates. Reform must begin at the top, not at the bottom of the service To reach the private, captains must be shot. We want no child’s play-we want an army.
What is a man’s life to the institutions and the liberty of the country? Nothing. Let old things pass away—let us have a new condition of things We want no more of Jeff. Davis’s foolery; we want one atom of brains, one spark of nerve-we want no more Barnumism—we want no mermaids with heads of monkeys and fishy attachments at the nether extremities-we want men, real men, earnest men. North Carolina, Georgia and South Carolina are in no mood for trifling. They have had enough of this sort of thing. They don’t intend to have much more. South Carolina don’t intend to be conquered. She intends to fight.
She don’t intend to be hampered or turned over to the enemy. When she is thus dealt with, there will be a reckoning —a reckoning where there will be no respecters of person. We want implicit order and calm forecast. South Carolina is a common wealth of order; we expect order, and we demand order. We are accustomed to order. We are not used to lawless ruffianism; we don’t intend to suffer it.
The General in command of this department is a thorough soldier, trained and tried. We believe he will perform his duty. We look to him to do so unflinchingly, without fear, favor or affection—regardless of pettifoggers and petticoats in boots. This is a community of law. Just 192 years age we began our political existence under the authority of the Lords Proprietors of England, and the rule of the Cavaliers, with the good old English code of laws, unemasculated by modern philanthropy and pseudo humanitarianism, to guide us. With the blessing of God, we have still preserved that code but little adulterated by demagogism. We can still hang a villain, or shoot a ruffian, without lacerating the bowels of our humanity.
We have not yet come to have a nursery for scoundrels, called a Penitentiary-nor public preachers in the pulpit, who call Christ a "good Galilean youth." Simple folks, we have little improved upon our successors. We are still only as our fathers left us in their ignorance-simply civilized and simply Christians. The law of order and obedience is the law of habit here. All good citizens here look for the enforcement of it here, in the military as in the civil life. The Executive of this State will support it, and will cheerfully, gladly do so.
We stand to-day as gladiators stripped to the fight; we are ready and trained to enter the struggle for life or death. South Carolina is ready to become the arena of the republic. Her sons are ready for the contest. Make of her whole soil a military camp—strip her to the waist; she will not shrink. But give her her gauntlets and her sword, and she is ready to stand or fall where she is.
A most onerous but imperative duty devolves upon the commander of this department, whoever he is. That duty—this first and most essential duty-is to cashier and to shoot. Without it, nothing can be done, and Sherman conquers us. With it, he is a coward who succumbs at heart. Everything is at stake-everything that is in the way must be faced and trampled upon. The man who commands here must put his heart in his heart in his pocket and his sword in his hand. He must know nothing but the good of the Confederacy. That he must do regardless of official weakness. The end must be radical reform. It is folly to talk of red tape now-we want the thing-we must have it —reform, shooting, cashiering, order, subordination, soldiers —not runaways, ragamuffins, ruffians. We want, and we must have brains and pluck in commanders, and implicit obedience and order in subordinates and soldiers Six paces and steady aim will do the business if repeated sufficiently often, especially among commissioned officers.
If, however, commanding officers will do not do their duty in this matter, let all men shut their books, for the end will have well nigh come. The time is short-will it be improved?
A CURIOUS ATONEMENT.
The Rev. George Gilfillan is a popular writer and preacher in Scotland, a hater of Slavery of the trans-atlantic type, and a long-time outspoken denunciator of the system in this country. But he has recently written a letter in which he declares that the slaveholding States of America have covered their multitude of sins in this matter by a process so remarkable in the way of atonement, that the eyes of the Christian world ought to be turned upon it. The Rev. Geroge Gilfillan speaks of the war in this country as waged by the North against " a people who, though deeply guilty in the matter of Slavery, and in other respects besides, have covered the multitude of sins by a courage, a consistency, a self denial, a unity, and a generosity of conduct, which have seldom been paralleled in the history of nations."
The reverend author of this sentence avows himself an Abolitionist, and writes the letter to the Emancipation Society, in which he thus as a theologian and a Christian declares his opinion that the slaveholders of the South have covered their multitude of sins by?by?by what!!
Yes, that is the question, by what? For years and years past, we have been reviled by the George Gilfillans, and the George Thompsons, and others like them, because the Southern States held slaves; but at last they have made atonement for their guilt, covered their multitude of sins, by what?
In defence of that awful system which Mr. Gilfillan abhors, and to make it the basis of their social and industrial life for all time to come, they took up arms against a government that extended equal constitutional rights to all its people, and without one solitary plea in justification, without one wrong, to proclaim in the ear of God, they took up arms against the country, and plunged this peaceful prosperous, happy land into the horrors of a bloody war.
And the Rev. George Gilfillan, a British Abolitionist, claps his hands and declares, in the face of heaven, that in his sight these slaveholders, by this rebellion and war, have atoned for the <illegible> of Slavery!
For the same, and for a less crime, the leaders of such a rebellion in Mr. Gilfillan’s country would be hung by the neck until they were dead! Andy yes this sympathizer with secession and rebellion is willing to forget that they are even guilty of any wrong in the matter of Slavery, now that they have so gloriously undertaken to destroy the American Republic.
Is this the sincerity, the philanthropy, the religion of the men who have for years made war upon our country and her institutions? Mr. George Gilfillan is a fair specimen. His real sentiments towards us, as exemplified in this letter, would be expressed in these words: "Slaveholders are <illegible> above all men, but their rebellion covers their multitude of sins; and now they are the men who have my admiration, my sympathies, and my prayers!
New York Observer.
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLER AT LAW,
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., Illinois
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLPS, Esq., Boston.
A.L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FAIRWELL, FIELD & CO., CHICAGO, Illinois
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
Sept 12 if 
